ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the 10th working week Tuesday session of the 6th session of the Riigikogu. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. Please, Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of nine members of the Riigikogu, I have the honour to refer an inquiry to the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. The question again concerns the future of ferry traffic. We are still in a situation where the materials of the meeting of the Government of the Republic are so secret that the members of the Riigikogu are not entitled to access them. Our only way to get information is to ask questions. There are five questions in the question. We would like to know whether the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has approached the Ministry of Finance to discuss the financing of the acquisition of four new ferry ships to the Estonian State, and whether the scheme offered by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications does not fall under State aid principles. We ask the Minister how he believes that the Port of Tallinn will ensure the average annual profitability of this project in an open market economy. We wonder whether the public procurement for the design, construction and delivery of four new ships on 1 January 2016 has not been hopelessly delayed. Our last question concerns the earmarking of Parliament last year for the strengthening of ferry traffic, i.e. EUR 600000, which has not been allocated so far. How does the Minister of Finance assess this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U3	Thank you. No further drafts or enquiries are recommended. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have accepted an inquiry. If it complies with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward it to the addressee without delay. Let's go to the messages. Wednesday, s. On 4 December, the following members of government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder and Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 74 members of the Riigikogu are registered and there are no 27 members of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U4	The first item on the agenda is the debate on the "Sustainability of General Education." Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to keep your voice down. I will present to you the procedure for discussing a key national issue. First, Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister for Education and Science, whose presentation lasts up to 20 minutes. Then there is a presentation by Kaja Land, member of the board of the Estonian Educational Workers' Association, which lasts up to 15 minutes, followed by a presentation by Vello Jõgisoo, vice-chairman of the Estonian Association of Rural Governments, which lasts up to 15 minutes. And the latter is a presentation by Mailis Reps, Deputy Chairman of the Estonian Centre Party Group, which also lasts up to 15 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may ask two oral questions to the rapporteurs, two oral questions for all. After the presentations and questions have been answered, negotiations will be opened. Let's get to the first item on the agenda. The debate on the key national issue 'Sustainability of General Education' begins. I would like a presentation by Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science of the Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U5	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to begin by thanking the Centre Party for raising this issue as an important national issue. It has happened that today, on 3 December, in two hours' time, the results of the international educational study PISA will be announced in the capitals of 65 countries around the world. This study, which has been carried out since 2000, reveals the knowledge of mathematics and science and their reading skills of middle school graduates, namely 15-year-old schoolchildren. In previous years, we have experienced that Estonian students have done well in international comparison. It is true that there are countries, including our neighbouring countries, especially the Nordic countries, which have done even better. That means we have something to catch. I very much hope that in two hours the news will be positive for Estonian schools, teachers and students. I believe that the work done in Estonian schools has produced a good result and deserves recognition. Now I'm talking in the long run, with the future in mind. Speaking about the sustainability of general education, however, I will limit myself to the basic school and upper secondary school law, leaving the subject of early childhood education to which the Riigikogu may return as a key national issue some time later. This is in order to properly assess the importance of early childhood education in the construction of the entire educational building. What is the basis for the sustainability of education? Education organisation, faculty, educational hardware, or infrastructure, and school network, and software, or mental infrastructure, on textbooks, workbooks, methodological guides, programs, curricula and many more, and finally, child but not least, financing. Let me briefly mention in this key where we are and where we are going. Estonian educational organisation has very long traditions. The first schools in Estonia started more than 700 years ago. We all know what Forselius did to set up folk schools, as well as the story of the two Estonian schoolboys he took to the king of the Baltic Sea. Since then, the beginning of the Estonian people's school education could actually be promoted. The current educational organization received its foundation a little later. The Education Act was adopted on 23 March 1992. Why am I reminding you of that date? In particular, to remind you, good people of the Riigikogu, the Estonian Education Act was passed before the adoption of the current constitution. It means work done. In part, this is why the Estonian education organisation is at times eclectic and the distribution of responsibility between partners does not satisfy either the Estonian school or society. The central question is how to deal with the constitutional task of ensuring the right to education in a reasonable, balanced and resourced manner: the state and local government must maintain the necessary number of educational institutions. A while ago, there were 220 general education institutions from 226 municipalities in Estonia. Not all had full-cycle general education schools, most were confined to primary schools. Nevertheless, in the context of demographic change and migration, both internal and external migration, the educational arrangements of their own time have clearly fallen behind. One key issue for the forthcoming review of education legislation is how responsibility for ensuring general education is shared. The first and essential step in this direction has been taken. For the first time, the state has committed itself to maintaining state secondary schools based on the law. I am convinced that we need to move forward in this direction. The contribution of local and central governments to the maintenance of general education also needs to be seen for various reasons and further research. Recently, the opinion has been expressed as if the state's contribution to general education had decreased. That's not true. In 2006, the contribution of the state and local authorities was 50: 50, or every kroon or euro granted by the State, was covered by the same amount granted by the local government. By 2012, this ratio was 56 : 44 and in five major cities the state gave 63 shares and the local government 37 shares. I stress that these are the richest municipalities in Estonia, whose contribution is regrettably the least. This problem needs to be solved. In the organisation of education, we find that the level, funding and conditions of Estonian schools are too different. Yes, Estonian school organisation is egalitarian in the sense that socio-economic links with students' learning outcomes are the smallest in international comparison. However, the difference between schools is greater than would be reasonable. The educational organisation is also concerned that, despite the general recognition that the egalitarian educational organisation is more successful than the elite, we see in Tallinn in particular, as well as in some other cities, how the elite educational organisation develops spontaneously. Regrettably, it has failed to be regulated at national level. I believe that the Tallinn City Government, which organises school education in Tallinn, can manage this process so that the strength of the Estonian egalitarian school system will not be lost in the course of this development. Schools vary widely. Traditionally, it is believed that there is a large difference between urban and rural schools. That, too, is not true. The most educational stratification is again here in Tallinn, but also in Kohtla-Järve and Narva. Ladies and gentlemen, There are schools in Estonia that differ to such an extent that the difference corresponds more or less to five years of study, or 200 points in comparison with PISA. This is an unacceptable gap. I will also briefly stop at the education of children with special educational needs. The principle of inclusive education is not new at Estonian school. We have been moving in this direction for many years and we can confirm that, unlike fear, the level of Estonian schools has not fallen. The Estonian school has managed to gradually introduce the principle of inclusive education, while maintaining the obligation of the state and local government to provide services in special schools and special classes for those who need it and whose needs in ordinary schools are not guaranteed. Regrettably, the subject of support specialists has been over-politicised. I have had to answer repeatedly from this speaker that 20 years in Estonia has been the responsibility of maintaining support specialists. For the first time this spring, on a proposal from the government, the basic school and upper secondary school law was amended so that the state, too, now has a certain obligation in this area. In a regrettable way, it has not been noticed that more or less half of schools are covered by the service of support specialists in Estonia, but half of the schools, which are predominantly smaller and are located outside larger centres, have so far operated without its support. It was precisely to solve this problem that the relevant amendment to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act was intended. In the coming years, 100-200 support specialists will be created in rural areas, where the infrastructure of this service is currently not in line with modern requirements. We have considered it important to increase the role and responsibility of the school as well as the Director's responsibility for its performance. We have developed a driver's competence model and we intend to assess the activities of schools and school leaders on this basis, if necessary by drawing appropriate conclusions. We argue, based on international studies, that increasing school autonomy will improve learning outcomes. The amendments to the Basic Schools and Upper Secondary Schools Act, which have so far been introduced, have also been intended mainly to increase the autonomy of schools. The school decides on the organisation of work, hours, grades and salary arrangements. It is precisely such an increase in the autonomy and responsibility of schools that is the rational point we have learned from international comparative studies. Secondly, the sustainability of education is based on the teaching community, as I have already said. There are 11882 teachers in Estonian general education schools, filled with 14200 teachers. It's true, unfortunately, only one in seven of them is a man. There are also 2,000 teachers over 60 years old, and 30-year-old teachers in Estonian schools are half less than 50 years old. This is a problem that needs to be addressed. However, it cannot be said that our higher education institutions do not prepare enough teachers. Each year almost 800 people graduate from teacher training, which is more than enough to fill the vacancies. It is true that the distribution is uneven across disciplines, and therefore not all disciplines can be sure that future needs are covered. We believe that the status of teacher needs to be improved and prestige increased. One step in this direction is raising the bar for teacher training. I am pleased that Tallinn University and the University of Tartu together with Narva College have started to take teacher training much more seriously in recent years. True, there are still some fundamental questions about teacher training. First of all, could you go straight to teacher training or should you first acquire a specialty? Secondly, how broad or narrow should teachers be in order to provide a good, high-quality and professionally deep enough education, but also to get a full load in small schools? We are in the process of reorganising a continuing training system that was so far fragmented and partly untargeted and which, due to the lack of central management, was difficult to manage strategically. That is why we have proposed a new distribution of the amount of further training (3% of the annual salary fund for teachers): 1% goes to schools, 2% is central. We are convinced that this too is a step in the right direction. The next issue is infrastructure. There are 532 general education schools in Estonia, 43 of them are for students with special educational needs, 68 for primary schools, 250 for primary schools and only recently 214 for upper secondary schools with 23600 students. In recent years, we have reduced the number of primary and primary schools, leaving the number of upper secondary schools at the same level. This has not been sustainable and this is the main reason why we have proposed the development of a network of state secondary schools. True, the number of schools has decreased by 39 in five years. But let us look at the steps taken by our northern neighbour, who is still being set as an example for us, to restructure the school network. In Finland, the number of schools decreased by 500 between 2007 and 2012, and the process continues. In the case of infrastructure, we must also pay attention to the fact that the movement of the population and the decline in the birth rate have created a situation where we sometimes heat, light and clean up more than 200 square metres of space per student. That's 20 times what it takes. True, we have pulled this area together and we are pulling it together, but in the coming years, there will be virtually no use of 700000 square metres of school space. 700000 square meters, 1000 euros per square metre, which means that we have over-infrastructural infrastructure for 700 million euros. It costs us a lot of money every day. I am not going to dwell on the further development of the school network because of a lack of time. I note only so much that I hope to succeed in the coming years, 2014 to 20.20, to strengthen the network of state secondary schools by ensuring the quality of upper secondary school education provided by the state in all counties, while at the same time supporting all local authorities in maintaining and renovating primary schools, updating where necessary and using unnecessary infrastructure. To this end, we have requested more than EUR 200 million of European Union funds to invest. I hope that in 2020, we can confirm that Estonia's general education infrastructure has been modernised and improved in order to save resources to solve other problems. Now I'm talking about spiritual infrastructure. We have a curriculum. It is true that it will be updated in order to ensure that the competences quite time and appropriately laid down in the general section are better and more effectively transferred to slightly overexploited programmes of substances. Estonian general education has textbooks in Estonian and Russian, and they are mostly original textbooks. For a 1.3 million people, this is an outstanding achievement, which I do not know of in the whole world. However, the challenges we face are difficult, rather the same as those of all nations. We need to move quite quickly from the current paper space of material learning to the digital space. We have also started to solve this problem, by amending the basic school and upper secondary school law. The government's coordination circle has an educational strategy. Its fourth version will hopefully be approved by the Government of the Republic in the coming months. We have already discussed this in the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu, and we have largely agreed that the five priorities for the development of Estonian general education have changed the concept of learning, competent and motivated teachers and school leaders, lifelong learning and its compatibility with labour market requirements, the digital revolution and finally the increase and funding of participation. Last but not least, let me focus on financing. Yeah, you can't get away with it without funding, you can't get over it, you can't get around it. There is no doubt that providing teachers with a decent salary is a central issue of funding. I believe that you share my view that if 6 to 7% of GDP is allocated to education through the public sector, it is not a small cost. It is comparable to our northern neighbours' spending on education, which is above the European Union average, not to mention the average level of developed countries in the world. I believe that we have the right to demand that this money achieves the maximum, both in substance (that is, I have no doubt given the results of international education studies) and in providing teachers with a decent salary. If we are able to maintain the current level of funding (including in general education, where it reaches 3.9%), I am convinced that we will also be able to guarantee a decent salary to the teacher through structural restructuring. A decent salary means that the teacher's average salary is 20% higher than the average salary in the country or that the teacher's average salary corresponds to the average salary of other specialists with higher education. We are currently falling behind this target of 20 to 25%. This is why the Ministry of Education and Research has proposed to raise the minimum wage rate for teachers to EUR 800 next year and to continue this increase until the strategic objective has been achieved. Above all, what needs to be done? I was already talking about the school network, but another important source is a review of the internal structure. It does not make sense that only 36% of all the money spent on education is spent on teachers' wages in Estonia, while 53% for northern neighbours and 60% for educational expenditure in developed countries. It is likely that, for various reasons, we have considered it necessary to spend where their payback is significantly longer, including by investing in relatively unsustainable infrastructure. This has been criticised by the National Audit Office, which has done so for good. In the forthcoming financing period of the European Union, we are facing a very clear challenge: investment must be strategically agreed and the school network fixed before they are made. In the coming semester, until Midsummer Day, this is one of the major challenges in the strategic planning of education. I hope that, together with this task, we will move much closer to this goal, which I have already stopped on, and which I will continue to consider to be the main challenge of the Estonian general education system: to ensure that teachers' wages grow prematurely compared to other educational expenditure and to the wage growth of the rest of the public sector. Good listeners! This was a brief view of the future of Estonian general education. I assure you that Estonian general education is good, but we have no reason to believe that we cannot make it any better. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U6	Thank you very much. You have a lot of questions. I would remind you that the initiators and the Bureau of a key national issue have agreed that the Minister will answer the questions for up to 30 minutes. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U7	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. You mentioned Tallinn, our capital, twice. I was not sure whether you praised the education system in Tallinn or whether you made critical comments about it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U8	Thank you. I'm going to try to make your point a question. I will sum up this topic in such a way that there is certainly reason to praise Tallinn. There are excellent schools in Tallinn that belong to the top of Estonian education and are also internationally competitive. But let's look at the other side of the medal. As much as there are top schools in Tallinn, there are schools that belong to the real-real end of the ranking. I do not have a clear answer to the question why this is so, why Tallinn has not been able to reduce these differences, yet being alone responsible for the harmonious development of the whole sector. I am also concerned about what I have already pointed out that too much attention and energy goes into what is happening around elite schools, while weaker schools are sufficiently neglected. Similarly, it is worth asking why it is always the case that the results of Russian schools are weaker than those of Estonian schools. This is certainly a complaint not only to Tallinn but also to the Ministry of Education. We have paid too little attention to this. This gap is narrowing, but it should narrow faster. When I return to the beginning of the answer, I say that this is the problem of Tallinn in particular, given the administrative structure and structure of education in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U9	Thank you very much. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U10	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. What is your understanding of small towns and rural settlements, such as Vändra, Tapa, Räpina, Lihula, Suure-Jaani, Avinurme, as well as of the county centres that wish to continue with the current system, such as the principles of state funding for the whole cycle secondary school and the future of these schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U11	As has already been said, I believe that we have a strategic obligation to provide high-quality and competitive upper secondary school education in all Estonian counties. We have seen in recent years that this problem is getting worse in most counties. We have offered the creation of state secondary schools as a solution to this. Based on the debates that have been held in connection with the reform of the upper secondary school, my better understanding must have been achieved unanimously here in the Riigikogu that municipal secondary schools, including full-cycle schools, could continue if they were needed and possible. Time will show what the development of the upper secondary school network is, but I would stress once again that our primary task is to ensure high-quality and competitive upper secondary school education throughout Estonia, especially in county centres. Now I'm going to be a little more specific. I believe that there is quite a consensus on the future of many upper secondary schools, as the number of students has decreased considerably. In some counties, there is uncertainty as to whether a single upper secondary school will remain in the county centre or whether there could be more of them in the county. I think the answer to that question is time. From the perspective of the coming eight years, I think it is mostly right that in all Estonian counties there would be several schools with upper secondary school, not one upper secondary school, be it state or municipal secondary school, perhaps except Hiiumaa. So I wouldn't get ahead of myself. We have compromised by continuing both state secondary schools and municipal secondary schools. Time will show what is a long-term and sustainable solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U12	Thank you. Please, Paul-Eerik Rummo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U13	Thank you. I am very pleased that we can discuss the fundamental issues of the educational organisation in this House, with the participation of the Minister of Education of the Republic of Estonia, rather than leaving him at the door, as was once planned here. There are probably doubts and controversy about the reforms that are taking place and inevitable in the organisation of education, but I do not think that they are so dramatic as to call into question the sustainability of general education at all. The general title of the debate cries out as if it were a matter of life and death. Do you agree, Mr Minister, that this wording of the subject is overdramatic and is trying to guide the minds of the current reorganisations as if they were essentially evil?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U14	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U15	Thank you, good questioner! Of course, I have an idea of what's going on in those heads who proposed such an issue. But I would like to recommend not paying attention to pessimism and criticism, which is not constructive. Any discussion in the Riigikogu Hall will have the opportunity to improve something, take into account benevolent and forward-looking criticisms. That's why we're in the Ministry of Education and the government, and you're open to the coalition. I would like to thank the initiators once again. Let the wording remain nuanced by those who put it that way.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U16	Thank you. Mr. Minister! You will certainly be pleased that the Centre Party Group has brought this crucial national issue into the Chamber today. But we read from the state budget that this issue is also very important to the state. We see that one of the priorities of the state budget is to provide education that takes into account the needs of the learner. How can the government give this priority if in reality the state does not support the support structures of schools, the work of psychologists, logopaedics, specialised pedagogues and social pedagogues? It's an age-old question, but I'll ask it again.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U17	Thank you. As a lecturer, I know that if one thing doesn't work out, you have to show patience and explain it again and again. I'm ready to explain this matter to you, too, good ambassador, as long as I'm given time here on the floor. Estonia is the rule of law and the executive power acts to comply with the laws adopted by the Riigikogu. I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that the maintenance of schools is the duty of the schoolkeeper under the Constitution, the Education Act and the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. The Act provides for activities and services that are supported and financed by the state budget. Based on the law, the state is doing so, with an increasing degree. Speaking of support specialists, I would point out that the Government of the Republic has come up with a proposal to increase the role of the state in providing support services. I thank the Riigikogu for accepting this proposal! In order to ensure these services, the state budget provides for money, and the government will carry out this task.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U18	Thank you very much. Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U19	Thank you. Dear Minister of Education, Many Estonian schools teach a significant part of the subjects in Russian. You also spoke today about Russian-speaking schools. How would you describe the educational and social function of publicly funded Russian-language learning in the current Estonian education system and what function do you see in this future?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U20	Thank you. The Russian-language school, especially the Russian-language primary school, is part of the Estonian school system. I think every year she's more and more part of it. I pointed out that there is a large difference between the levels of Estonian and Russian-speaking schools, but this is shrinking, although not at the necessary speed. It is true that we can compare the level of our Estonian and Russian-speaking schools with the level of schools in the Russian Federation. Our Estonian and Russian schools are much better placed than Russian schools. That is why I think that determined work based on a common methodology will ensure the same future for all Estonian citizens and people living here, regardless of which school they have studied in. Looking as far forward as I can do, Russian-language comprehensive school is part of the Estonian school system. He should remain that way, he should develop and grow stronger. If you see any problem here, it is that, unfortunately, we have not done enough at both state and school level to enable all primary school graduates to master Estonian at a level that would allow them to continue their studies in full or 10% or 15% of the national language without problems. It is a disadvantage that must be overcome. But I stress what I said at the beginning: Russian basic school is also an organic part of the Estonian school system in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U21	Thank you. Please, Urmas Glass!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U22	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, The concept of 'home-close primary school' has been passed through the educational modernisation plans. I ask you to explain what you think this means and what criteria the Ministry of Education and Research is based on when it comes to basic school near home!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U23	Thank you. The concept of basic school close to home changes over time. It is quite clear that when the school was taken on foot or on a horse on the right, the near - home school was much closer than when the school was taken on foot, by bicycle, by car, or by bus. Currently, there is a network of comprehensive schools and part-time primary schools in Estonia, it works and, at least in a spatial sense, a primary school close to home is guaranteed for all Estonian children. I believe that we must take this position and make every effort to ensure that such a school network, as long as it has functions and needs, is maintained in its present form. However, we know that migration continues, the small increase in birth rates unfortunately does not compensate for the third of the people who have left home. That is why, in the long term, we also need to be prepared to close down a number of secondary schools close to home in the future. These decisions must be made responsibly. Currently, there is a school in Estonia, where every working day employees go, who are heated and enlightened, but where no children go. This shows, however, that we have not had enough responsibility for taking decisions. As far as home-based basic school is concerned, we in the Ministry of Education unequivocally agree that funding, in particular financing basic education, must give priority to municipalities with fewer than 90 pupils, i.e. basically one school with nine, six, four, maybe two classes. The relative level of funding for these schools must rise and we will certainly ensure this in 2014 and 2015. Therefore, I think that setting formal criteria does not provide a good solution; rather, in our small Estonia, there should be a serious discussion of whether and for how long, and under what conditions, this school can continue its activities, for every particular school in the municipality and state.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U24	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U25	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Minister, thank you very much. The two ministers of your home party are currently carrying two reforms in Estonia: one is the reform of the network of 'general education schools', which you are carrying, and the other is an administrative reform based on the model of attraction centres, which is carried out by the Minister of Regional Affairs. Have you and the Minister of Regional Affairs been sitting around looking at the reform cards, putting them on top of each other to figure out if they fit together? According to Minister Kiisler, at least every attraction centre should have one upper secondary school, whether it is a state secondary school or a secondary school belonging to a local government. Do these two reforms match each other?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U26	We have discussed this, of course, and repeatedly. There's no wonder of the world here. If there is a center of attraction, he is attracted and attracted to both workers and students in the same way. If you ask if one of the attraction centers is enough to pull together a single upper secondary school section of children, the answer is yes and no. As you know, the attraction centers were chosen as a result of county discussions and counties were sometimes based on different principles. For example, Harjumaa has still not learned where it is drawn and where it is not drawn. It is difficult to expect that these reforms will overlap one to one, but there is overlap in a substantial part. For example, let us look at Valgamaa. We understand that there are three centres in a quite complex county: Valga, Tõrva and Otepää. Cirgulina and Puka don't smoke, they don't attract high school students or anyone else. Or we'll take Jõgevamaa, where, we understand, pulls both in the river and in Põltsamaa. Põltsamaa may be starting to pull even more than it is now pulling in the river. Here too, the upper secondary school is probably appropriate. Let's take a look at Peipsi. By the Peipsi, there's a mess about pulling it. But one place could fetch, it could also attract upper secondary school students, regardless of the fact that there are no county centres there. So we've been over this, and this job is going pretty well together. However, if in the future we can agree on an administrative-territorial reform in one form or another, it will certainly be correlated with the steps that are being taken in the organisation of the school network.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U27	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U28	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, My question is about the state gymnasium to be built in Põlva. We've heard Valga has already signed a contract. You have always responded very positively on this subject from this remote control, but is there anything to worry about in Põlva? Is this state gymnasium still coming? Please confirm this once more!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U29	Who knows what someone's worried about! Some worry about coming, and some worry about not coming. There are always different opinions. But yes, I'm sure you'll have to move on to this topic in Põlva. I believe that the dust has now been wiped out from the debate that has taken place in the meantime on where exactly and what kind of initial assignment this gymnasium should be, and we can go on with it in Põlva. I have repeatedly stressed that Valga and Põlva, who missed this train, are clearly priorities. There are tools available to start the design work. We already made a deal in Valga. It is difficult to say when a pile can be laid down; it also depends a little on decisions at European level. But once again, I assure you that we have no doubts about the Põlva. Rather, there is a lack of formal decisions; it is not a matter of principle. So for everyone waiting for the state gymnasium, I have good messages. Others need to see how they accept it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U30	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U31	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. In your presentation, you may have touched on the subject of elite schools in some critical ways. To a certain extent, this problem exists and poses problems for other schools. There are problems with Pirita Upper Secondary School in Tallinn, for example, as the number of students is decreasing. But this problem has been caused by parents who have placed their children in elite schools in the city centre. Therefore, problems have arisen for children who would like to go to school near home, but this will soon not be possible because the border will come. How do you think this problem could be solved? Whatever the local government is trying to do, parents quickly find help in the letter of the law and say that the law does not restrict their freedom of choice, they take their children wherever they want, and yet this problem arises. What is your understanding of how to normalise this situation as a result of elite schools?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U32	First of all, we should not do anything that puts good schools in an uncomfortable or worse position. That should be the first principle. The second principle that could be used in Tallinn and my better understanding should be based on is that we should both have a whip and a roach in order to move educational arrangements in a reasonable direction and, above all, to reduce the pressure on children entering the first class and their parents. Why go to schools downtown? Because they are convinced that there will be a better education. To what extent this is justified, it is a question of its own. But if that is the case, we must first see if there is a real reason for it. If that is the case, we must see if we have done everything we can to strengthen those schools that are entitled to reproach. It seems to me that this work has largely not been done. If we have responsibly ensured a reasonable level of education in all schools, an egalitarian school network, then we can tell people that, good friends, a child's place is at a school close to home, from there he gets the same quality education as in the city centre. We leave competition and an application for elitism at the gymnasium level where it is absolutely appropriate, and we try to ensure the organisation of schools that have been successful in history for Estonia and other countries that have achieved better results internationally. Such a school arrangement means an egalitarian school of harmonisation without horizontal and vertical differentiation, in a quality that is uniformly guaranteed for all.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U33	Thank you. Please, Urbo Vaarmann!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U34	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I ask as a member of the Riigikogu and as a parent. When can we get to a situation where we know what's coming next year, and the Ministry can plan things? At present, neither parents, school directors nor members of the Riigikogu can answer the question that will bring us next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U35	What fears you have about next year, it's hard for me to understand. Next year brings great school year, we have the same teachers, the same schools, the same textbooks, the same curricula. There's nothing to worry about. You can also tell your child and his teacher.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U36	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U37	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The state is preparing teachers. Young people go to school, but after they have their diploma, they don't want to go to school to work. Can you comment on why this is the case? Do you have an overview of how many young people have completed teacher training and could have gone to school to work but didn't?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U38	A third to half of graduates of pedagogical disciplines do not enter the profession within a few years of graduation. There are different reasons for this. Some of these are clearly linked to the lack of competitive pay for teachers. I have already stopped on this issue, it needs to be dealt with. Unfortunately, this is not the only problem. There are also school arrangements that need to be resolved as a matter of urgency and which I also referred to. One quite serious problem, especially outside large cities, is that it is difficult for a teacher to get a full - time job. We've probably gotten too close to teaching. We have prepared teachers only for schools with 600 to 700 children and where the teacher is able to reach full load in each subject. As has already been said, many of our schools, even more than half of them, are many times smaller. It's hard to get a full load there. The teacher may have a reasonable salary, but if he gets only half of it because he doesn't have enough load, it'll make the situation difficult. It is certainly worth thinking, however, that perhaps our own attitudes and our complaining about the difficulties associated with the teaching profession, rather than paying attention to the joys associated with this profession, including the privileges of others, have led young people to understand that this is an occupation that is not worth learning. More general attitudes, not just pay numbers, are important for many things. I think we could take a more positive view of the school and its achievements, as well as of the teachers. We could recognise them instead of constantly pointing out the problems that we have to deal with together and which, I think, we can do better if we have more common understanding, including in terms of the social status of the teacher, instead of mutual reproach and criticism.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U39	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U40	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister of Education, I'm asking as a former mayor. It is already December, but the municipalities still do not know what the financing model for next year will look like. It is said to be self-governing, a number of children and a certain coefficient. It is clear that this financing model forces a certain number of schools to close because there is not enough money. But with what money can these schools be closed down? As we know, the law requires four months' notice of closure. This should be discussed with the local community and should be consistent with the development plan. How is this technically possible and where is this money found?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U41	A good vigilante! With regard to the pay of teachers, the funding of local authorities will increase next year. The pay of teachers in small municipalities is growing more than elsewhere. At least these are the agreements currently on the financing model with all our partners. You are referring to the fact that the financing model is not known. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that this year, 2013, the distribution of local government funds was confirmed at the end of January. This is the earliest date on which the distribution of education support to local authorities has been confirmed. In previous years, it has not been until April. There are therefore unsubstantiated reproaches, as if the Ministry of Education or the Government of the Republic had created some sort of non-standard situation. These reproaches are completely arbitrary. We have proposed, in preparing for the financing clause of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, an amendment that will be introduced in the future, not for one year, but for an indefinite period. The Riigikogu was the body that excluded this amendment from the basic school and upper secondary school law and found it necessary to come back to it later. Believe me, me, the Ministry of Education and the Government of the Republic have a desire to increase stability. But this can only be done by means of a legislative amendment, which I wish you success so that in the future local authorities will have confidence in the future when the Government of the Republic transfers the draft state budget to the Riigikogu. That is our political objective.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U42	Thank you very much. We only have time to ask one final question. Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U43	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The quality and traditions of our northern neighbours' general education and higher education have attracted the attention of several large countries in recent years. Alexander Stubb, who is Finnish Minister for Foreign Trade and European Affairs, just announced that Finnish educational institutions could offer the world a prestigious teacher training as a serious export article. Could we be interested in this export article, too? On the other hand, we're not Finnish from a poorer tree. Would we have to put aside a competitive article on education?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U44	Good questioner! I dare say that education systems in Finland and Estonia belong to one weight category; they are both equally good systems. In some things, we are better, in some things Finland is better. I think this also applies to teacher training. That is why I think that closer cooperation with Finland is in every interest of both Finland and Estonia. We have actually been promoting this cooperation for many years. With no other country, our Ministry of Education and our educational institutions do not have as close relations as they do with Finland. It is true that Finland is more visible in the world, but believe me, Estonia's education system is quite respectable in the world, and perhaps much more than we realize here. I can see that every time I attend summits where representatives of the best educational countries are invited. But when I come back to the question, I will say that we will have one major joint action with the Finnish Minister in the near future. We are working together to develop cooperation, teacher training and also its international dimension. I think this initiative will benefit both the education system in Estonia and Finland.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U45	Thank you, Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aaviksoo! The questions are over. I ask for a speech chair for Kaja Land, member of the board of the Estonian Educational Workers' Association!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U46	Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am Kaja Land, Head of the Association of Educational Workers in Viljandimaa and Member of the Board of the Estonian Educational Workers' Association. I'm a triple grandmother, too. My two grandchildren study in Tallinn schools, one in the so-called elite school, the other stayed in the 81st ranking and had no hope of getting into that school, and the third grandson is in Finland. So as an educational worker, I have always had the opportunity to ask my loved ones about education in Estonia and Finland. I represent here today the positions of the Alliance of Educational Workers in place of our Chair, Reemo Voltri, who, as an active teacher, is in continuing training. I also say that I have been involved in the educational life of the Republic of Estonia for the best years of my life, I have worked in schools and kindergartens in Viljandi County. Now to the amendments to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. The Estonian Educational Workers' Association sent its views on the basic school and upper secondary school law and related draft law amending other laws, which resulted in some confusion for members of the Riigikogu and the Ministry of Education and Research on 20 February 2013. In our opinion, the principles set out in the draft significantly reduce or lose, in fact, national guarantees for teachers in terms of remuneration and organisation of work. The Alliance of Educational Workers takes the view that legitimising these principles, in fact, this is what has already been done, can significantly reduce teachers' rights and work safety. Firstly, we are against the abolition of national hourly rates. These standards have been left to the school's discretion. How has this change in everyday life turned out? Let me give you an example. The teacher worked at school last year for 1.0 places, so she had 22 contact hours, or she gave 22 hours in front of the class. At the beginning of this academic year, at the end of September, he asked the union for advice as to whether the school manager was doing the right thing. Indeed, since that academic year, this teacher holds 0.7 posts, despite the fact that the number of hours remained the same. This is a relatively extreme example and there is not much of it, but if such cases appear at the beginning of September, I feel that the implementation of the law has gone badly. Here is also an example. Teachers are known to have 35 hours in general, and the number of contact hours is now left to the Director's discretion. It is relatively common for teachers to have a smooth increase in contact hours, with 23 hours instead of 21 hours, etc. Another problem has been the fact that teachers are very worried about next January's budget, both in the teachers' mailing list and in Viljandi County. I can also say, as the Minister is saying here, that I do not know what these fears are, but there is such an amplification that I do not know what will happen. So we're a little worried. The Educational Workers' Association has explained to teachers that it is necessary to require the number of lessons to be drawn in a contract of employment in order to exclude the possibility of running teachers from one class to another within the general working period, simply on the grounds that the law allows them to do so. The Minister said that early childhood education could be considered as a separate subject. I agree with that. But in fact, it is also possible to draw parallels here with the amendments to the pre-school institution law. Local authorities, as well as some kindergarten managers, have found that the working time of a kindergarten teacher in the group must be 35 hours, despite the fact that the teacher has remained the same for all other work-related interviews, preparation of hours, organisation of children's parties, etc. As a justification, municipalities and managers do not bring the needs of children or the reason for the curriculum, but they say that the government regulation obliges all teachers to work seven hours in the group from 1 September, and that the regulation must not be violated. The second basic position that the Alliance of Educational Workers could not agree to is that teachers are provided with a salary corresponding to the general working period, which includes the performance of all their duties, and that only one minimum wage is established across the country. The Alliance of Educational Workers has always opposed the introduction of a single minimum rate, as it does not motivate teachers to complete themselves or to pursue higher grades. At the moment, there is a particular problem with the remuneration of class managers. Of course, we think that teachers only work out of a great deal of affection and love for the school, but, no matter what, salary numbers and hourly rates are compared to last year's salary and hourly hours, when the class manager's fee was stated on a separate line. Teachers are currently lacking clarity about the content of their salary. Another negative example is the non-payment of replacement hours. Those hours will be nicely included in the teacher's general working hours, as they say. So, actually, we've got a covert extension. In the view of the trade union, this should not take place if the other conditions remain the same. On the issue of pay, I would say so much that the conditions and procedures for the allocation and use of dedicated allocations for educational expenditure and the allocation of allocations between municipalities and cities have been a particularly topical document. I know the objections to this have sounded everywhere. In the verbatim report of the Riigikogu of 11 November 2013, Minister Aaviksoo confirmed: "We have unanimously found that the upper secondary school could have a ceiling of 32 students and 24 pupils in the grade in primary school. ' We're talking about maximum and ceiling, Minister Aaviksoo doesn't stress the average here. Now, however, we read in the draft implementing act the wording 'on average, 24 and 32 students in class'. So there's a lot of contradiction. The third principle, which we do not agree with, is that the system of grades and accreditation is gradually replaced by a system of invitations and a system of motivation agreed at school. This is a change that has devastated the best of our faculty and has disappointed them greatly. Of course, it can be argued and believed that the head of school, too, considers methodological teachers and senior teachers to be good employees and values their efforts with higher salaries, but these examples are currently much less than those in which methodological teachers and senior teachers complain that their pay has unfortunately not risen, contrary to the remuneration of other categories of teachers. I understand it's up to the school to decide, but it's likely that the school's thin wallet will play a role here, because indeed, the rise in the pay of top teachers has remained very low. Personally, I think that if the levelling of teachers' grades is also a promising step for the sustainability of our education, then it could have been implemented step by step, or guaranteed to senior holders that their salaries would still increase in the same way as lower-ranking owners' salaries and give them the opportunity to continue to retire like this or simply leave school. That would have been fair to them. After the law came into force, however, it would no longer have been necessary to accept new applications, since we will no longer have methodological teachers, and could have moved to an invitation system that I feel is still confusing at first. Reemo Voltri has been on the committee. It seems that there are no more rumors about the payment of grades; in his view, this was already a real decision by the Commission. It is said that we have been talking about EUR 200.300, but the price is not yet quite certain. So it is assumed that the teacher will go to apply for the invitation and pay for it without knowing whether his salary will rise as a result of the invitation. In the light of current laws, it's only up to the director. I am also talking about support systems and their availability. I've been in close contact with the logo beets. The vocational counselling system was built after Estonia regained independence with European, national and local government funds. It's a good thing we have him this way. However, in my opinion, local authorities have been deprived of support in such a way that they themselves now decide whether they will have enough money to hire logo beets, psychologists and social pedagogues, and if they do not, it may be easier not to hire them. As a rural municipality elder said, many teachers have received further training to work with children with special educational needs so that they can also cover this part of the job. If the country no longer supports this piece of work in the future, although I hope that this will not happen, there will also be concerns about these teachers. We are pleased that the Alliance of Educational Workers is involved in making changes, but as I wrote in Sakala, this is the kind of involvement where we have the pleasure of writing, but at least it seems to us that our proposals have almost been taken into account. The Riigikogu has also rushed a little incomprehensiblely with the adoption of certain important laws. There are no explanations for implementing acts. The best example is the regulation on the working time of educators, which was adopted during the summer holidays and started to apply from 1 September when the education workers came to work, relating to amendments to the basic school and upper secondary school law. The Regulation was not accompanied by any explanations or examples, nor was it time to prepare for its implementation. Now that confusion and misunderstandings have already started to hinder work in schools, the Ministry of Education and Research has started to provide explanations and, according to reports, to produce guidance material on the implementation of the law. After all, the teacher should be a professional in his field; he should not constantly deal with changes in the organisation of work, working hours, duties and other organisational aspects. It should not be disturbed and insecure because of constant changes. The Minister said in less than two hours we'll have new PISA results. I hope they are good and show our teachers a good job in front of the class. But I'll come back to the last PISA study. Then, as we know, the students were asked... Is my time up?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U47	Students were asked if they liked to go to school. Our kids said no, they don't like to go to school. Good members of the Riigikogu! I have a feeling that when you ask the teachers if they like to teach at school, they say they don't, but they have to. Our sustainability may be questioned if teachers no longer want to teach at school. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U48	You have 23 seconds.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U49	Thank you very much. Dear waitress, there are questions for you. Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U50	Madame Land! How do you feel about the idea of the Social Democratic Party that a framework agreement should be concluded between the Ministry of Education and Research, the Estonian Federation of Educational Workers, local government associations and the Association of Estonian School Leaders, where the standard bases for teachers' workload would be fixed, on the basis of which collective agreements would be concluded in schools and individual employment contracts between the Director and the teacher?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U51	I fully support it. I think our society is increasingly moving towards contracts. If this happens, I'm happy because, as far as we've tried to conclude contracts at county level, it's always failed for some reason. I guess we haven't been so contractual, but if this thing comes true, I think we can work more calmly.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U52	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U53	Thank you, manager. Thank you very much for your presentation. Several of your concerns are understandable and understandable, we hope that you will quickly get answers to your questions. But we live in the information age, telephone, e-mail, etc. is available. I myself, through the Parents' Association, have also participated in the development of a teacher's professional standard. You mentioned in your report that receiving the invitation would cost EUR 200.300. Did you somehow check it out? Did you ask the Chamber of Appeal, for example, or did you just give us such a rumor?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U54	That's why I called it a rumor that it wasn't a fact. At the last Bureau meeting, Reemo Voltri (which is not in the minutes text, he said when we discussed the professional advice among ourselves) said that he was present at the last meeting and that it was determined that the invitation would be subject to a fee, and that it was only about amounts that had not been determined. He also said an amount of EUR 200.300.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U55	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U56	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Now I'm having a little bit of a disagreement. Listening to the minister gave the impression that there was a bright future ahead, that the sun would rise, and that there would only be a way forward with flags and drums. From your report, the future didn't look so rosy. I have a specific question about a subject that you have touched on, but I would like to know more. It has been said in this Chamber that the amendments to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act have abolished the past accreditation of teachers (young teachers, teachers, senior teachers and Methodist teachers). What, then, should motivate the teacher to develop because there is no next step and you're still just gonna be a teacher like you were? Is there any motivation for self-improvement now?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U57	Thank you. This is, in my opinion, a very sensitive subject. It seems to me that this point of the PGS does not just improve and I do not see a positive development here either. Well, we can agree that the teacher's salary will rise, but now everything is harmonised and left to the director's discretion. I am saddened that there have been the highest number of appeals in relation to the new PGS for precisely these reasons. I still believe that the person who once decided to apply for the title of a senior teacher or a method teacher went to a lot of trouble. He is recognized by his colleagues, I believe he is also recognised by the head of school. After all, the title of the methodology teacher was awarded at national level, and it was something special, and the teachers appreciated it. If I could answer that question, maybe I wouldn't be so hot against this point, but unfortunately I don't know how to answer it. We've been thinking about it. There is probably now an opportunity to agree with the school leaders so that we can meet them halfway, so there would be some kind of national agreement and teachers would still have some sort of different pay and perhaps a different job title.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U58	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U59	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Mrs. Land! As the Minister of Education and Research claimed, a third or a half of young people who acquire a teaching profession do not enter the profession as teachers. How do you feel about a salary that motivates young people to come to school, in addition to being a fine profession, and motivates both young men and women?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U60	It's a good time to say the Christmas dream of a raise. However, I will stick to the wish or demand of the Alliance of Educational Workers that the minimum wage of a teacher should be equal to the average wage of Estonia. How this average is calculated is a question of its own, but the calculations show that the average wage is higher than the current minimum wage for teachers. When we get to it, we can talk.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U61	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U62	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Mrs. Land! The law no longer provides for any guarantees for teachers. How can a teacher defend himself? How, for example, can he ask himself a question when dealing with the principal?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U63	It's kind of a union job. It is not known that organisations from the Federation of Educational Workers have been set up in all institutions. Our laws also allow us to simply choose a trustee. I very much hope that these trustees will do their job in such a way that, if anything is generally agreed at school, these benefits will be extended to everyone and this agreement will be written down. It's an ideal option. But speaking of protecting a teacher, I have an example of a childcare facility. The President has decided that there is a seven-hour working day in the group throughout the kindergarten. It wasn't a confidant who called and asked if they had to sign. I said I wouldn't if there were no other conditions. They never signed it. The next day, these people were taken in one by one, and a separate covenant was made with each one. When they came out of the office and started discussing the matter together, they realized that everyone had signed the treaty. Perhaps it was because of the wit of the driver, although I do not know his reasons for setting up a seven-hour working day in the group, but it is an example that we are weaker when we are alone. I see no other way but to call on people to join the organisations and agree on something together and not on worse terms than they have done so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U64	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U65	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, thank you very much for your very interesting presentation. It happened that I met Estonian teachers at several schools last week. They were, indeed, Russian schools. The teachers' common concern was that we have, as if, a national curriculum that is by nature rather its framework convention (you know that you have to teach it, it and it), and there are textbooks that are very different from those issued by several publishers. Their greatest concern was that the teacher must self-think how he teaches, lack methodology, and lack of clear guidance. Is this problem more general than your study programme? As a parent, when I look at what my children have learned at school in different years, it is clear that this is changing very quickly.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U66	Speaking of changing the curriculum, I think it is important to have a teacher's personality and professionalism here. There are, of course, very aspiring teachers who want to follow the curriculum very closely and want to pass on the maximum available in the curriculum. I think they have a little problem because it's all too much. But I still hope that most teachers are professional and they'll allow themselves a little hike in this place. One of the "Spring" characters said if you can't do the whole mission, you can do half of it. I hope, however, that teachers do not burn out professionally and are able to use such a technique.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U67	Lembit Rockvee, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U68	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! At the end of your presentation, I think you made a pretty bold and serious statement. You said teachers don't like teaching at school, but they have to. I know a lot of teachers, and many of my relatives work as teachers. Among those I know, there is no one who doesn't like to teach at school. How did you make such a pretty serious statement? In my opinion, this is still a very big problem if teachers do not like to work at school. Of course, there are problems and there are people who don't like their work, but can you really say that? I understood what you said that most teachers don't like to teach at school, but they have to. What's it coming from?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U69	Thank you. At the beginning of your question, you said that you know teachers who are very fond of teaching at school. I think we're just moving in different circles. My role is that I ask the teachers for feedback on any legislative changes. Maybe it was just too emotional to say that most teachers don't like it. Of course, I don't remember what I said that exactly. I'm gonna fix myself, and I'm gonna say that a lot of teachers don't like it. But I will stick to the fact that in a situation where everyone remains in the position of headmaster, who may not always be equally sympathetic to all teachers, it is difficult for a teacher to give everything, to come to work in a good mood and to believe that there are good students at school, to go home and prepare for the next classes. I still think it's up to all of us to save the teachers a little bit. Here in the Riigikogu, it is possible to save them by thinking more about teachers if we adopt any law. Teachers can be saved in a trade union or in an association of educators by listening to them and helping them as much as we can. Parents can also save teachers if they sometimes fail to ask questions about bad things.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U70	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U71	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress Kaja Land! My husband is also a teacher, and I am well acquainted with school subjects. But what do you think if the headmaster is the sole decision-maker, how will this new system work when the teachers are paid? For example, for an equal number of hours, the head of a school may be assigned a lower salary to a senior teacher or a Methodist than to a teacher who has just graduated from a university. It's theoretically possible. What motivates teachers to complement themselves? In my opinion, the most important thing about the new pay system is how the teacher gets along with the director. Or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U72	Thank you. We're coming back to the teacher's motivation. That is also my biggest concern, as I said before. Unfortunately, I don't know how to motivate teachers. If there is a good financial year and next year the teacher's salary rises by 30% or 40%, ideally by 50%, but the method teacher's salary does not rise because they are ahead of other teachers in terms of wage levels, then perhaps we can reach the level of pay so that all teachers have a Methodist's salary. But it's a beautiful vision of the future. At the moment, I am very sad that the accreditation has been canceled. I can't answer that question. We are looking for solutions and we are talking about them, but at the moment we do not have these solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U73	Liisa-Ly Pakosta, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U74	Thank you. I have a question and a proposal at once. In the meantime, I looked into the current status of the invitation. Proposals have been repeatedly asked by a number of organisations, including Evi Veesaare, who, as a representative of the Federation of Educational Workers, have participated in this process. If, for example, your trade union has a proposal, how much would it be to pay for the costs, would you be willing to pass it on, for example, to Margus Pedasele, who is the chairman of the Education Professional Council, and actively to talk about this issue, so that we are not in a situation where rumors move, but nobody does anything about it? The Riigikogu will also be willing to listen to these concerns in greater detail. But have you personally made suggestions as to how much this fee could be and how this invitation should be arranged?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U75	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U76	Unfortunately, you don't have a chance to ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U77	I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U78	But can I ask you if this EUR 200-300 has been completely taken out of the air?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U79	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I'm coming back to motivation. The Minister and you talked about motivation mainly about salary. There may be the impression that solving the issue of pay means solving all the problems, the amount of pay is important, and that is all. But is pay the most important thing, or are there other questions at the same level? Which of these are very important, and how can you formulate them?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U80	Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U81	I'm afraid pay is important. We can't get past it. However, this does not mean that the Alliance of Educational Workers has only taken into account pay in order to require better conditions for teachers. We have also written in our action plan the possibility that such an agreement should be concluded in society or the law passed in the Riigikogu so that every teacher can afford three months or half a year of further training, for example, in Estonia, Finland or somewhere further away, after three or five years of work. That would really motivate the teacher to complement himself. If we ever get to that, it's an important motivator.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U82	Thank you. Madame Land! It's very interesting to listen to you, to know what's really going on in education. That's where my question comes from. Teachers organized a very large strike, and doctors also organized a major strike. Why do you think the doctors' demands were met and they got more or less the pay they wanted, but the teachers didn't achieve the goals with their strike? Does society differ in attitude toward doctors and teachers?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U83	I do not think that society feels differently, but I do not know how these things work in this Parliament. Perhaps Parliament or the government is better at treating doctors, perhaps the Minister of Social Affairs is a stronger nature and is able to combat the advantages. I don't know what to say. I'm sorry that there's a salary differential between teachers and doctors at the moment. We didn't achieve as much as we wanted. But we're glad the doctors did.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U84	Andre Sepp, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U85	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! However, I think that Estonian teachers want to do their job and they love their job. But my question concerns the Estonian Federation of Educational Workers and its cooperation with the Association of Estonian Rural Governments and the Association of Estonian Cities. How much cooperation do you have and have you discussed wage positions? After all, the local government pays the salary for the employees of hobbies and kindergartens. How do your positions match?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U86	I have participated in negotiations with local authorities at county level and also at national level. I have no very optimistic impression of communicating with an association of rural governments or an alliance of cities. After all, the main theme of the trade union is pay. We are setting specific figures, but it has been a coincidence that representatives of the Association of Rural Governments and the Association of Cities have said that they are not in a position to sign it, that they are only allowed to listen and that they may be going to discuss it. As I understand it, the law obliges all the representatives of the municipalities to give their consent. That is how these negotiations have so far failed, even though we have tried to keep them.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U87	Dear Kaja Land, I thank you for your report and your answers. I ask the Riigikogu for a chair of speech by Vello Jõgisoo, Deputy Chairman of the Association of Estonian Rural Governments!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U88	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I am the vice-chairman of the Estonian Association of Rural Governments. I have participated in negotiations on education with the Estonian State, i.e. the Ministry of Education. I've been in this working group for the last eight years. Therefore, in my report, I will talk a little bit about what we have discussed there. Education support for local governments in the state budget has been one of the main topics. We have discussed the amount of this support and how to share these resources. Like the Minister, I will start with the Constitution, according to which the state and local authorities must maintain the necessary number of educational institutions to ensure access to education. I would stress that this must be done by the state and local authorities. State support is an important factor affecting access to general education, it is the main source of coverage of teaching staff's labour costs and covers more than half of the cost of the main activities of municipal schools. Local authorities therefore consider it important that the bases for allocating this support are enshrined in the law in an understandable way and that they are designed to have access to general education as a fundamental right for a person. We are a little confused about the distance from the Ministry of Education and Research to the responsibility of saying that it is merely a grant and that it is up to the local government to decide how to run the school as the holder of this school. Of course, he decides this, but he often gets the feeling that he is being forced to decide by restricting or unfairly distributing the State's allocations. We also consider that the capacity to perform local government tasks cannot become disproportionately dependent on decisions of the Government of the Republic. The main issue that is currently up is the financing paragraph of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. In our opinion, the impact of the change in funding principles on access to education is unanalysed and the new concepts used are unwritten. If the state and local government are responsible for access to education together, the state cannot deny the obligation to carry out analyses only to local governments as schoolchildren. However, as the state has undoubtedly greater competence, we believe that it is its responsibility to carry out the analysis. According to the amendment to the Basic School and Upper Secondary Schools Act, funding must be based on the regional specificities of access to education. The content of the term has not been opened. The explanatory memorandum states that funding takes into account locality and that access to basic education also needs to be ensured in sparsely populated areas and peripheral areas. However, the draft implementing act does not take into account the specific needs of these regions. The right of local authorities to receive sufficient financial resources for the performance of their tasks requires the State to set up a system for the financing of municipal tasks which is appropriate and which ensures adequate funding for those tasks. The budget arrangements of the local government should not be a matter of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act; the details of the local government's budget are the competence of the local government. According to the Financial Management Act of the local government unit, the breakdown of the local government budget falls within the competence of the City and Municipality Council. Consequently, we stress that the management of the budget arrangements of local government units and their structural units through sectoral laws and education legislation is not in accordance with the principle of self-regulation of the local government. The funding model offered by the Ministry of Education is really good in those cases where there is one school and one municipality. This system allows an average salary to be paid to teachers in a single-school municipality and to be held by 29 pupils in Paide municipality, 104 pupils in Väätsa municipality and 82 students in Sauga municipality, with schools close to these municipalities located 6,1 to 6,3 kilometres. But inequality is caused by the fact that access to such education is not available in municipalities that cover several school areas, such as Tapa, Türi, Viljandi, Suure-Jaani, West Nigulas, Kosel, Sakus, Sauel, Jõelähtmes. In these municipalities, the differences between school areas are considerably greater than the ones I have mentioned 6,1 to 6,3 kilometres; in Kose municipality, for example, 13 to 20 kilometres. Clearly, a school 20 kilometers from a student's home cannot be called a near - home school. If it is possible to keep the school according to the new model in the abovementioned municipalities, then in larger municipalities where there are more students, it is not possible to run a school 13 kilometres from the second school. In addition to blurring the concept of close-to-home, situations arise where, for example, a primary school with 368 pupils does not receive pay from the state for teachers. The reason is simple: there are classes in this school where 19, 18, 17 or 16 students are studying, and the school is located in a municipality where the ratio of the class is 21. Of course, it's parallel classes, and if you put them together, we get 32, 35 or 37 students in the class. That's not normal. It is very clear from this that the total number of students in the municipality does not describe the variation in the total cost requirement between local governments and it is not possible to share money according to this criterion. A higher total does not always mean lower costs per student. The financing system must be sufficiently diversified and flexible to take account of the real change in expenditure needed to fulfil its tasks. Please note that the number of children in the municipality is not typical of the regional nature of the municipality. This is characterised in particular by the network of settlements and schools located on the territory of the municipality and the distance and connections between them. Similarly, the analyses have not shown that the actual cost needs are linked to the smaller number of students and the larger territory. The reason for this is that the long distances between settlements may require that the school be kept open in several places, and this, in turn, does not allow teachers to achieve similar results to those of other municipalities in municipalities belonging to the same coefficient group because of the same number of students. The reduction of the 5% change proposed in the implementing act compared to 2013 will not solve the problem because, in conjunction with the increase in educational resources and inflation, it will lead the municipality in a few years to the level of funding for the coefficient group it intends to receive, which may not take into account its real needs. Sharing in coefficient groups also creates the possibility of losing up to 20% of the grant due to a few additional students. If there are 105 students in the municipality, there is one coefficient, but if there are 108 students in the municipality, there is another coefficient, but the money needed to pay the teachers' wages does not differ by 20%. Not taking into account the cost of different levels of school provides an advantage only for primary schools and leads to under-funding of tertiary school. In our opinion, the proposed model does not support the emergence of the so-called Estonian attraction centres. Not only does this model not support the voluntary accession of local authorities either. A very vivid example is in my municipality, where the municipalities of Kose and Kõue joined. There should be three school districts, with schools 13 and 20 kilometres apart from each other and students must be in class 21 everywhere. Thus, 127 students do not receive funding from comprehensive school. We are also concerned that the law is intended to be enforced in general terms, but local authorities can make changes to the school network at the earliest and at best from 1 September 2014. According to the Financial Management Act of the local government unit, the municipalities must be compensated for the loss of revenue or the increase in costs resulting from the amendment of the legislation during the financial year. The implementation of this law in the manner set out in the draft will result in a breach of legal certainty. However, in 2008, there is a model of education support developed and implemented in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Research, the Ministry of Finance, local governments and other partners. We support continuing on the basis of this model, making it easier by introducing a distance criterion and by adjusting the school network in a normal way, thereby ensuring equal access to education in different regions of Estonia. This financing model is based on the fact that, regardless of the number of children in the class, the costs of teaching each class are the same, since the number of hours provided by the teacher is not dependent on the number of students and the teacher still has to deal with the children. The model ensures that each decision and its cost can be accurately assessed, both when assessing the costs of individual decisions and when deciding whether financial decisions are appropriate. Support specialists are excluded from the Act. There's been a lot of talk about that today. The municipalities support the fact that the possibility of financing these specialists is included in the law, as the regional support centres do not solve the problems of schools in providing support services. No specialist in the centre is able to adequately address or delve into the problems of a particular student in the school. Finally, I would like to make a few more points. Everyone's right to education is a fundamental right, according to the Constitution, to be guaranteed by the state and local government. The responsibilities and resources must be balanced. In order to fulfil the obligations, provision must be made for financial coverage. The state budget allocates educational support to local authorities on the basis of a model. The views on changing or improving the model need to be negotiated and agreed between the parties in order to ensure a consistent access to education throughout the country in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U89	Thank you. You have questions. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U90	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, If, for example, we went to the dining hall and bought some food, the price would include the salary of the cook lady who made the food, the pay of the dishwasher, the price of heat, water, gas and electricity, transport costs, taxes, etc. In addition, it would take into account the cost of the food from which the food is made. For an average comprehensive school with 50 students, the country gives 39 euros a day with a generous hand. In fact, it would take at least six or seven times more money to pay the cook lady, the dishwasher, etc. than we want lunch to meet the standards. How do we get out of this situation? All these stories end with nothing. Are you commenting on the school lunch problem in local governments?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U91	The current school lunch allowance of 78 cents has long since not covered the actual costs. If we add up all the expenses you're talking about, that's two or three times the amount. Local authorities simply have to accept this situation, because children want to eat. All these expenses are covered by the local government budget. We have also raised this issue in the negotiations; we have wanted to increase this amount to EUR 1.5. This has not worked so far.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U92	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U93	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, You talked a lot about the amendment to § 82 of the Basic Schools and Upper Secondary Schools Act and the implementing act that comes with it. This amendment foresees that the funding principle will become factor-based and self-governing based on the number of students in the municipality, based on the class-based approach it is currently taking. The Association of Municipalities and the Cities have not coordinated this change. They have said that the coefficient-based model is a step backwards. The Ministry of Finance has said that the total number of students does not describe the total cost needs and variation, nor has it coordinated this draft. The Ministry of the Interior has pointed out its comments, it has been pointed out to them that no parameters other than the number of students are offered. There's been a lot of criticism. What do you suggest the Minister of Education does now?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U94	Urmas Glass, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U95	I think that serious discussions in the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu are ahead of this issue. I believe that we will reach the truth and the best solution for our country by listening to each other and considering. I'm sure we'll come to an agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U96	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Deputy Chairman of the Association of Rural Governments of Estonia! I have been following your speech very closely, but I would like to clarify one topic among the many you have spoken about. I am interested in investment support for local authorities. The Estonian Association of Municipalities has written to the Ministry of Education and Research in its opinion on the draft law on basic school and upper secondary school that, unfortunately, the draft has been excluded from the law so far from the state budget for the costs of the investment. How strong is the financial blow from this to the local governments and how strong is the blow to credibility?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U97	Its financial value is EUR 3044464. One of the reasons why this amount is intended to cover the increase in teachers' wage costs is that the money is so small that there is nothing to be done with it anyway. At the same time, municipalities have used the help of Riigi Kinnisvara AS to order schools. They have planned to repay this money for a very long time, using this investment component. After all, it was in its time that the service of Riigi Kinnisvara AS was even offered, it came from the doors and windows of the municipality, but it has now become apparent that the interest for using this service is much higher than the bank interest. Municipalities have been put in a situation where they have to pay higher interest rates on a voluntary basis. If they have planned to use the investment component to cover costs and it is simply taken away at one point, even though this amount decreased five times in 2009 compared to 2008 (this money was previously 16 million), it really makes us think about the question of trust.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U98	Jüri Morozov, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U99	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Riversoo! What understanding do you or the Association of Estonian Rural Governments have of the principles of state funding for the full cycle schools of small towns and rural settlements, or the upper secondary school part of schools, and even the future of these schools? State secondary schools are currently being built in county centres, where all costs, including the cost of hiring auxiliary staff, are borne by the state. At the same time, these full-cycle schools are largely borne by the local government, with the exception of the provision for the salaries of teachers, which comes from the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U100	Whether the municipality wants to run the school itself or transfer the school to the state is up to each municipality. The law allows for all forms of school. I do not see any contradiction or barrage here, because it is up to the municipality to decide. As far as cost recovery is concerned, yes, that is true, but the municipality also has a decision-making power in its school, which is still close to zero in the state school. I therefore see no reason why local authorities should have to give up their school.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U101	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U102	Thank you. Mr Jõgisoo, thank you very much for your presentation. I think everything you said was really taken from life, and your speech was borne by everyday concerns. But I think that every year, unfortunately, the state is pushing education problems more and more to solve local governments. Of course, the association of rural governments and the union of cities have a major role to play in this system. At the end of your speech, you spoke about the need for local government representatives and the state to negotiate. My question has to do with this. How often have you ever had the opportunity to negotiate with representatives of the state, including the ministry?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U103	We have met quite closely with the Association of Municipalities and the Association of Cities and the Commission set up by the Ministry. Recently, unfortunately, this is no longer the case with this model of coefficients. When I say quite honestly, the request made by the Commission about a month ago to send us a table of coefficients has not been answered from the ministry to this day. So the debate on this model has gone a little bad, but in the past, we believe that there has been a sufficient degree of cooperation, discussion and reflection on these issues. But with this latest model, yes, as it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U104	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U105	Thank you, manager. Thank you, too, for a very good presentation. My question is a little more general. In the same way, we are redistributing Estonia in an administrative-territorial way, in other words, according to the principles of school reform, and we are also redistributing ambulance areas and hospital service areas. It's like every minister is picking on his own. We don't even want to put these cards in line. What do you think is going on in Estonia now, and why is it all so broken, why is there no common language?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U106	This is a very difficult question and it is very difficult for me to answer it, who do not have to put these cards together directly. In recent times, we have had such thoughts as to why we are not discussing these matters. Perhaps there is little talk in the municipalities and cities, there is probably little talk at government level, and we talk too little talk to the Ministry of Education. We should be bolder, we shouldn't be afraid of each other, we should say our thoughts. The local governments understand things. If the country does not have any money, we will discuss together how to deal with the available money. So the time has come when too little is said, explained, and listened to.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U107	Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U108	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! The organisation of the educational network entails some additional costs, such as transport costs, because teachers and students need to be transported. If state secondary schools are created, you may need to build dormitories and, of course, you need to solve the school food issue. Support centers require extra costs, plus more time to go to school from home. Has it been taken into account how much resources will be taken into account in the organisation of the educational network and how these responsibilities could be shared between municipalities and the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U109	The restructuring of the school network will certainly require transport resources; the restructuring of upper secondary schools will require even more of them. We have done calculations in the Harjumaa Municipalities Association, which I am chairman of, how much resources would be needed for transport in Harjumaa if the upper secondary school network were to be reorganized. We have also submitted these calculations to the Ministry of Education. I don't remember what that number was, but it wasn't 10 or 100 euros, but it was a much higher amount. If we go this way, we certainly cannot ignore this side. The answer that this is all about organising and resolving the law on public transport is not quite right. However, we should also highlight these costs in the education budget. I can't tell you how much these costs are. At least for Harjumaa, we have calculated them and presented them to the Ministry.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U110	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U111	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Dear waitress, You already told me about small county upper secondary schools that it is up to the local government to keep them. Paragraph 2 (5) of the implementing act to be agreed states that the upper secondary school in in-patient education shall be provided with a coefficient of 1, which shall ensure that the labour costs of upper secondary school teachers are covered where it is possible to form a set of 32 pupils with an average coverage. I believe that the Association of Rural Municipalities is certainly very aware that upper secondary schools, with an average number of students in the class of 32, are certainly outnumbered. Has the Land Self-Government Union expressed its opinion on this, and what is it like?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U112	In our opinion, upper secondary school should be able to be held together with 90 students for three years. We are trying to stand up for this, but at the same time we can see that this matter needs to be restructured. These upper secondary schools, with 30 students and below, have already pulled themselves together. Our position is that it should be possible to hold upper secondary school with 90 students. For example, there are about 130 students in Kose Upper Secondary School. Since we find that the existence of an upper secondary school there is important, because it is still the centre of this region, South Harjumaa, we have gone this way to simply pay for the teachers' salary and keep this upper secondary school going as long as we can.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U113	Thank you. Please, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U114	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Although today's subject is general education, it is my question that concerns recreational education. Hobby education is a very important part of a person's education. You have a long experience as a municipality manager. That's why I'm asking. At the moment, the state does not see itself as a role in supporting the education of our children's interest and this has been left to the responsibility of the municipality. Do you think that such an approach is reasonable or how it should be organised to support and develop an interest education in the country so that all children can develop their abilities?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U115	It would be good if the state could support anything, including an education of interest. I myself come from a municipality with two hobbies: a sports school and a music school. We've dealt with them ourselves. The state could come to the aid of parents in paying participative fees, either now for everyone, but it could provide some support, even if it were the income of the parents. The parent's participation is 10 to 15% of the actual cost of an education in the field of interest, not more. But should an education of interest be uttered? I think it's a question of options.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U116	Thank you. We still have time to ask the last question. Please, George Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U117	Thank you very much, Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Honourable waitress! You started by describing your experience. You said you had been negotiating education for eight years. I am asking more from this point of view that you work every day in a community of rural governments. You spoke about this school lunch in the Riigikogu speech chair, you spoke about support specialists. Why is it that when a government representative talks about the same issues here, it is like it is a black and white dog that is completely different from each other? Why are the representatives of local governments not wanted or unable to listen to these issues in the negotiations? What's your opinion?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U118	I think we're still being heard, but unfortunately, there's really no follow-up. The main objective is to raise the pay of teachers. I think that we have created all kinds of legislation and whatever it takes to create an education system that costs, figuratively speaking, EUR 15, but we have EUR 12 and now we want to give up this EUR 15 education by force with EUR 12. That's why we argue, fight, take offense, insult others, cry and laugh. That is, in my opinion, one of the greatest troubles that we have placed perhaps a little too strict conditions on our wallet.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U119	We've run out of time for questions. Thank you very much, Mr. Vello Jõgisoo. Today's fourth waitress is Mailis Reps, vice-president of the Estonian Central Party Group. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U120	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Minister and waitresses! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister, the representative of the Estonian Federation of Educational Workers, Mrs Landi, and the representative of the Estonian Association of Rural Governments, Mr Jõgisood, who gave us their three brief presentations in the Riigikogu, as well as the general public the opportunity to understand different views and to familiarise themselves with their future perspective. What prompted us today, before the beginning of the new year, to propose that the Riigikogu discuss the sustainability of education? We were, of course, motivated by the fact that in the last few months an amendment to § 82 of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act has come to the coordination circle, as well as the draft implementing legislation, the financing regulation. But more broadly, we were prompted by the debate that took place last spring or, let's say, on the eve of Midsummer Eve about the amendments to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, with which we had to proceed in the autumn. Autumn and the election break is over, it's pre-Christmas time. Disputes go very broadly around three issues relating to the financing of teachers, the organisation of the school network and general education. At the beginning of today's sitting, the Minister made it very clear that, when it comes to the sustainability of general education, these three aspects are certainly just one small part. It is quite opportune to mention here that the concise thoughts put forward by the Minister here on teacher training, mental infrastructure, textbooks, digitalisation or other issues should have been discussed both in the Committee on Culture and in part in the debate on national issues of crucial importance. Let me, as the representative of the Centre Party Group and as the initiator of the debate, stick to the issues that have heated the passions most. If we look at the budget for next year, one of the main issues has been whether the wage increases promised to teachers are sufficient to ensure that the minimum prescribed wage rates are paid out. The question is perhaps even wider (as Mrs Land did today): will teachers' incomes actually increase? Last spring, we had a heated debate about the basic school and upper secondary school law during long night sessions, and we clearly understood that the Riigikogu was a scarce majority in favour of the abolition of accreditation. Teacher organizations are still frustrated by its loss. They are frustrated because the teachers of storytellers and others who serve as role models did not actually raise their wages. Moreover, it is more than doubtful whether the professional standard of teachers that is being created will give them sufficient motivation in the future, as it has been stressed from the outset that wages will not depend on the invitation. Another fundamental issue has been the hour burden on teachers. That, too, has already been referred to here today. In the round of questions and answers, the representative of the Estonian Federation of Educational Workers gave examples of this, but it is clear that 35 hours, which is the only guarantee for the teacher, have not, either in the negotiations within the school or in the opinion of the general public, produced the results that were hoped for. There have been really cases, and unfortunately there have been no individual cases, where the number of hours worked before the teacher's so-called class has been significantly increased, which so far amounted to 18.24. The main concern is the lack of confidence. There are certainly many additional requirements for teachers in small schools. With regard to class management, additional hours, the real estate component already mentioned, or some other subject, it can be said very briefly that the aim has been to increase the minimum wage levels of teachers by means of redeployment within the existing education money. At the same time, neither the municipality nor the school actually grows at this rate. Schools currently have investment money for repairs, which, although reduced several times, have been considered by schools to be their own. Whether local authorities can restore them at the level of each school and whether each local government has the opportunity to continue to renew the school closely enough is certainly a question. Speaking about the organisation of the school network, the Minister has brought comparisons with Finland, but more generally, both today and several times before. Indeed, if we look at the current school network, whether from all over Estonia or from Tallinn, for example, today, it is clear that internal migration and relocation of people within even one local government have taken place faster than changes in the school network. We have schools in areas where there are few people. These schools are either half empty or smaller classes. Of course, there are also regions where children take two, partly three shifts. Now the question is, what are we going to do with this? It is clear that the Minister, being very much stronger in mathematics than many of us here, understands very well that if he makes a comparison between the overall funding of education and the proportion of teachers, one of the reasons for the mismatch that has emerged is that we have inherited a school network that needed and still needs repair. Any change in the school network will put even more pressure on investment in real estate. It is inappropriate to criticize local authorities that too much attention goes to school buildings in proportion, as this has been the case since the beginning of the division. The municipality has to deal more with real estate and the helping party, and the state has always dealt more with teachers' salaries. Trying to dispel the responsibility of the state or the minister for a slower than expected rise in the pay of teachers, when support is the only help that local authorities receive to raise the pay of teachers, is a rather novel approach. So far, ministers have considered it both political joy and responsibility for how much support is given to teachers' salaries and how much it is valued in the Government and the Coalition of the Republic. Has it been enough? The economy has moved faster than this support. Today, however, to say that local authorities are as much responsible for teachers' pay as the state, it is not only a novel approach, but certainly also unwarranted at times. The expectation is clearly that teachers' wages are the responsibility of the state, and the expectation is also clearly that this money does not have to come and cannot come solely or mainly from investments or repairs. The next question is the debate around the new financing model. I had very high expectations about today. Today is December 3rd, but unfortunately we did not find out from the Minister in the round of questions and answers whether or not the new regulation sent to coordination to change the financing model will apply from 1 January. The minister shakes his head. Let's hope it doesn't work. This has been the main reason why we certainly asked the Riigikogu to discuss this important national issue today. If such major changes, which require very clear changes in the school network, come before 1 January, then at this rate no local government can actually make any changes on the school network, not to mention that teachers can normally complete the school year, transfer students to the following classes, etc. I have been developing a model for financing general education for a few years. We changed the system as a result of very clear pressure from local authorities and teachers, which is now being brought back. The reason for the pressure to change it at the time was that local authorities, which had several centres, were under pressure to close down their schools. The old one has now been brought back with the same reason that we need a new model, because there will otherwise not be changes in the school network quickly enough. This certainly differs from the current approach to education, because we also recognise at national level that the education system will be sustainable in the future if we significantly organize the education network. So far, no one has wanted to say publicly, regardless of Praxis's analysis, mobile network analyses, attraction centers or anything else, that our goal is to pull together the school network. If one of the ideas and objectives of the new financing model is to support those municipalities that make significant improvements in their school network, it is certainly essential to take this politically very painful step during the next round of coordination and to look at all this by municipality. As proposed by the Land Municipalities Association and the Ministry of the Interior, the coefficients and the situation in each local government should be examined separately, taking into account the differences between them. Probably the Ministry of Education has made preliminary estimates, but I believe that a broader, certainly quite painful debate about this would be one way to bring back names and figures. In any case, I thank the waitresses again! Whether or not things became clearer today, it can be decided by eavesdroppers and co-thinkers. But in order to be able to understand where there are bottlenecks, at least in the opinion of the various parties, the teachers, the local government and the ministry, people were invited here today. I am extremely grateful that this discussion has been very substantive. Thank you all.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U121	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U122	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, If you believe in Statistics Estonia, the number of children born between 1999 and 2005 and entering the first class in 2006-2012 varies by 3240. I mean, these kids are gone, just gone. In fact, this loss is constantly increasing over the years, with over 700 children already missing in 2011, i.e. more than 5% of children. It's a big problem, and it's already on the first-class level. Do you think that continuous reforms, a constant desire to change the education system in any way, are it not important, whether it is needed or not, but would like to change something as well as affecting migration? Is that why people go away and take the kids?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U123	Thank you, good questioner! First of all, when it comes to changes and reforms, they have had a very clear positive impact over the last six months. I sincerely hope that there will no longer be anyone in society who does not understand that what is happening in education is very important and that the issue of teachers' pay is now not only a matter of political but also of substantive discussion. It has been interesting that, from spring (and sometimes local elections) until today, the sustainability of education has been discussed a little more innovatively, especially as regards primary school, but also, in part, upper secondary school. The question is how rich we are and how small we think a sustainable school can be. When it was said a few years ago that there are more than 90 students in middle secondary school, now there are just over 60 students in normal primary school. These are serious questions, but if we want to stop migration in any way, the existence of a school house in the historic centre is certainly a very important reason for people to stay in the area where they have their roots. We have seen dozens and dozens of times that even closing a school in one centre within the rural municipality does not lead to good results for another school. The natural migration of people usually results in a move to the nearest centre or capital city. We have, of course, now had another attraction centre, which is for many families in Finland, but of course they are moving to other countries as well. Do these changes affect migration? I brought a lot of materials, but they don't reflect real research. According to surveys (I know that there are people who jealously distinguish between research and polling), it is very clear that when people move away from their home place, looking for better opportunities and better jobs for their families, it is no longer important whether they stay in Tartu, Pärnu or Tallinn or in some other centre in Europe. This root extraction effect is just wider. A school close to home is certainly very important as a cultural centre. Perhaps we must say together that, as a result, 6 to 7% of GDP is not enough for such a school network. Whether we are jointly prepared to support the school network with more money or not, this is a serious discussion place.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U124	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U125	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! I admit honestly and directly that I know how to move the battalion on the terrain under the maneuvering war. It's a simple task, if you know anything about warfare. But I listened to the waitresses today. The minister said that, on the one hand, everything was awfully good, but then came the mayor and the teacher's representative, who both said that in fact it wasn't all right. Lately, it's like someone's lying somewhere all the time. As a simple person, how am I supposed to understand which side is lying, and how is it possible that in a simple and beautiful thing like education there is such a contrast? How is that possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U126	Thank you, good questioner! There have certainly been no mutually stated accusations, and there have certainly been many emotions. First of all, things are understood differently. There are certainly people who, for example, do not see any major problem in losing the degree of admission of teachers, but find that they were obsolete and that Methodists received an unjustified salary compared to others. There are different concepts. As far as the lack of discussion is concerned, for example, the coordination of this same regulation shows very clearly that interpretations, expectations and perceptions differed greatly. It created a great deal of contradictions, fueled emotions, and brought forward a great many of the aspects that have actually been discussed since spring. The main thing I would recommend to all of us: we must continue the discussions. We can do this in the Riigikogu when discussing important national issues, we can hold discussions in briefings, discussions in the Committee on Culture and, of course, involving the wider public. I'm sure it's important. I will, for example, bring the same regulation to the point that has taken up life, which says that in primary school, the coefficient is 1 when the average ratio of the class is 24. At the same time, the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act states that 24 is a ceiling that can only be raised on the basis of a special decision of the Board of Governors. It's caused a lot of confusion. In preparing today's presentation, I calculated that if, for example, there are no other variables and the question is only this 24 students, then in Rakvere Basic School alone, where the average coverage of the class is 22 students, the teacher's salary allocation would decrease by 8.3%, and in Kambja Ignatsi Jagu Primary School, where the average coverage of the class is 19 students, teachers' salaries would decrease by 20.8%. If one point of the regulation states that the average coverage of the classes is 24, but the next point states that regional specificities are taken into account, but there is no annex to it that would show that these regional peculiarities actually have some meaning and that there is no reduction in the wage allocation of 20.8% in Kambja school, then it is understandable that emotions are very clearly raised. For example, Leisi Upper Secondary School is certainly very concerned about its primary school level, as there are 16 students in the average occupancy rate of the classes, and pay is reduced by more than 34%. So this one provision alone may lead to a very serious wave of concern, which Mrs Land has already referred to. There is an expectation that something will happen from 1 January, and this will be seen in an extremely negative light. It would certainly be a clear message that this is still a project and we will discuss it further or discuss something else before 1 January. But in upper secondary school, that part of the coefficients doesn't even exist. If you look at upper secondary school, this table is quite interesting, because two pages contain those schools where the state provision for teachers' pay decreases. There has been quite a lot of debate about the ranking of schools based on the results of the state exams, but there has also been a lot of quote. Among the schools whose funding is decreasing are Vändra Gymnasium, which is at the top of the ranking, Väike-Maarja, Järva-Jaani, Puhja, Värska and other schools. These are highly respected secondary schools on the ground, but their funding is decreasing according to the criteria of this financing model. Understandably, it has created emotions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U127	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U128	Thank you, Honourable Vice President. Good waitress! Today we have discussed this crucial national issue in a gender-neutral way and we have also talked about teachers in a gender-neutral way. However, I ask about male teachers, who are known to be very few in schools. Very few young men acquire this specialty. You don't have to talk about kindergartens, there's only aunts, there's hardly any uncles anymore. I'm asking what could motivate men to go to school. Is it really just the paycheck?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U129	Thank you, good questioner! First of all, the minister actually touched on this subject, he pointed out the number of men currently employed at school. Indeed, the picture is quite clear among the students, with a tendency towards women. There are countries that have tried to change the specialties of one sex, for example, in the case of kindergarteners, and to bring people of another sex into this profession. There are some very positive examples of this in Estonia. In general, however, it can be said with a half-joke, but still rather worryingly that in countries where this has been done, teachers themselves have been careful about this and parents have raised the cry of who is the man who comes to work in kindergarten. I think that we must first change certain attitudes in society. It is certainly acceptable to society now that a man is a teacher of boys' work or physical education, he may be a headmaster and head of study, he can give real subjects, with a certain degree of admission, but it would be quite difficult for a parent to understand now if all first-class teachers were male. This expectation and hope in some schools is, however, especially in those with separate girls' and boys' classes. Unfortunately, this has not succeeded in the first classes, but sometimes enough male teachers have been found for the seventh or eighth grade to begin teaching boys' classes. So in addition to wages, which is an extremely important and indisputable factor, we need to change our attitude. It's not just a teacher's room question. I think there's a lot of hope in the teachers' room before Christmas parties that the men who would be happy would be more than just a man who's the principal of the school. There is also a need for change in the attitudes of parents and the general public. One example: If a son goes to school as a teacher, it is important whether the family supports it or rather looks at it with study. These are the things we need to change.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U130	Thank you. Please, Urve Palo, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U131	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! A little more than a month ago Krista Kiuru, Finnish Minister of Education, appeared in the seminar room of the Riigikogu. He was asked how Finland achieved that the student's learning outcomes were on average very good and that schools were generally at an equally high level. Krista Kiuru replied that a social agreement was concluded some time ago and that the salaries of teachers were considerably raised, so-called 'they were brought out of the group'. He said now the teachers are in line to get a job. You're a very strong educational specialist. What do you think should be like and be a teacher's salary?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U132	Thank you. I can rely on experience a few years ago. There have been quite a number of such studies or surveys. For example, a study on the working time and expectations of educators has been carried out. Two things can be pointed out. Firstly, it is certainly important to have a very clear wage increase, not in percentage terms, but in some kind of social agreement. This has been done in the Nordic countries, a similar change in the way Ireland carried out when it wanted to make a leap into a smart society. We can say that Ireland lived in a bubble and had to make adjustments later, but teachers' salaries were not significantly reduced there. Even when cuts began, the pay structure of teachers was not substantially changed in Ireland. In Ireland, the pay gap was more than tenfold. I'm talking about a decision more than 50 years ago, but at the moment they made that decision, they had realized that there was no other way. Whether this is the breaking point in Estonia, I cannot say. I can refer to a study a few years ago. Then the average wage of the country was just over 800 euros, and the teachers' wage expectations were to start with 1200 euros. Now the average wage is, say, 1000 euros at the border. I therefore believe that there is no point in talking about a lower salary than EUR 1 500 if we want to have a competition for teachers. Is it necessary to make a special decision? Yeah, sure. As long as it is the responsibility of the Minister of Education and one party, there will be no such change. This would only be the case if it were not a political stick or a political victory, but simply a social opportunity to make such a decision. How optimistic am I in this regard? Yes, there are countries that have done so. But I stress that this is not the only reason for good learning outcomes in Finland. In Finland, teachers must also have very good working conditions. The Finnish Minister of Education also pointed out support structures. Their absence gives our teachers a little fear. If a teacher goes into the normal environment of teenagers and his aim is to try to convey his knowledge to the class and encourage them to debate, but he must deal with one or two children with special needs, we usually talk about the special social need, then a support structure would be needed here. Is it a very strong headmaster, are these support structures, is it someone who advises the teacher, but the teacher needs support to be physically and mentally supported and helped.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U133	We still have so much time to ask one, one last question. Igor Gräzin, please! I'm asking for a brief answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U134	Good waitress! Finland is a lot of talk now. I teach in Finland every week, and I teach my first course, which means that my students in Helsinki have just graduated from high school. I can say that this smooth and quiet decline in the level of education characterises Finland in exactly the same way as Estonia. That is why I ask you this: how much does the education system play in the general decline of education levels and how much does it play in off-the-system circumstances, such as digitalisation, lower-level online education, etc.?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U135	Thank you, Mailis Reps! The time for questions and answers is indeed over. We are moving on to the negotiations. However, the Riigikogu Board has received the following suggestion: 'The Central Party Group of the Riigikogu proposes to extend today's session until the agenda items are exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. ' We must vote on this proposal. Let's get ready for the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the proposal of the Centre Party Group to extend today's sitting until the agenda items are exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. 54 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The proposal was supported. We'll continue the trial. We have come to negotiations. I'm asking for Jaak Allik's speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U136	Thank you, good questioner! I will be able to respond to all of this in 33 seconds. I do not have enough basic data to talk about how much the level of education in Finland has changed. Will digitalisation or other changes lead to lower levels of education? Depends on what we mean by level. Perhaps young people today know less about the facts, but we hope that this is not the only goal of our education. I would not overstate digitalisation in one way or another. But a wider discussion on education in Finland and Estonia, if you will allow, we will have a good professor outside this hall, because I fear that my time is up.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U137	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Minister of Education said in the Committee on Culture that the reason for teachers' low pay is that there are many schools and teachers and that the municipalities are diverting the money from education support. As far as the final accusation is concerned, there are no concrete examples that education money would have gone elsewhere than education. The rejection of this accusation is the task of the local governments, who have dealt well with it. As far as schools and teachers are concerned, on the basis of statistics, perhaps the Minister is right. The number of children is falling, but the number of schools and especially teachers has remained relatively stable. In terms of efficiency, a lot could really be done here, but what it means to the quality of education has not been measured by anyone. The current key words of general education are certainly the school network and the pay of teachers. Ten years ago, there were 18 students per teacher, now 12 of them. It's like a third of the teachers are too much. If you draw only Excel tables in the Ministry, the solution is simple. However, as the President recently said about culture, education is fortunately not manageable by using Excel's tables. No one can tell how many students per teacher would be normal in Estonia today. It is clear that there would be a normal number of students in Tallinn, while there would be a different number in remote rural areas. Professor Aaro Toomela of Tallinn University said that in order for students to be academically successful, the teacher's qualifications and the ratio of children to teachers are essential for the debate on regional availability of education, which Mrs Ergma banned in the parliamentary hall. We are currently talking a lot about individual work with a student, group work and teaching children with special needs in ordinary schools. All of this means that there should be far fewer students per teacher than the 24 students currently based on the calculation in the class offered by the Ministry. I think the biggest mistake the current Minister of Education is making is that, at the same time, both the effectiveness of education and the quality of teaching are being seriously pursued. In the 'Forum', the minister said that if he had a choice between teacher's salary or class size, he would undoubtedly choose the teacher's salary. I think it's as smart as having a choice between mom and dad. These things cannot be separated, they must be dealt with together and an optimal solution must be found. By walking along the rural municipalities and small towns of Estonia, it seems to me that the solution can only be school-based. No odds, no Minister Aaviksoo or Minister Kiisler's offer, this isn't helping. Why has no administrative reform or educational reform plan been carried out in Estonia? I think it is because they have been made at the Ministry on the principle of drawing a map. But Estonia is so small and every student and school is important here. Each municipality is unique. They should all be addressed on an individual basis. That's what Mrs Reps was talking about. I think that the most important thing that Estonia needs today is the clarity put forward by a caring master's hand about which primary schools and secondary schools, including full cycle schools for rural settlements, will last and which are not. There is no point in saying big words and making plans for the unqualified separation of primary and secondary schools and trying to implement them financially by strangling them, as the Ministry is currently planning to do. There is no point in making resounding words about a school close to home, and then, financing education on a self-governing basis, actually lead to the so-called voluntary closure of many basic schools. If we consider it a general national and national objective to maintain a high-quality chance of life throughout Estonia, then we must act on it. The national preservation plan for the school network for the next decade needs to be adopted very quickly, and then these schools, which have been decided unanimously to be maintained, must be financed individually. This cannot remain the responsibility of the municipality and must not depend on whether the number of students in the following year is above or below the coefficient criterion. This would also mean taking upper secondary school education as a whole to state responsibility and finance, regardless of whether it is a "pure state secondary school" or an upper secondary school part of a municipal school. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U138	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U139	I will give a concrete example of my home country, Viljandi, where a beautiful state gymnasium has just been opened. The maximum volume of this large upper secondary school is 200 students per flight. You can also attend this school from outside of Viljandi County; in fact, you can accept 180 graduates of Viljandi County Elementary School. In addition to this upper secondary school, there are currently four secondary schools in Viljandi County where 87 ninth grade students are enrolled. Looking at the number of middle school students, we can see that this ratio will last for years. My concern is that if we close these other gymnasiums with financial pressure, what we say every year to the 90 children who just don't fit into the city school. Are we gonna tell them to go to vocational school? Some may be, but not all of them. Or shall we say to go to Tallinn with our parents? There goes the part again, but is that our goal? What right do we have to deal with segregation that is clearly based on the place of residence and the parents' wallet? How many talents we're losing with this! I am not going to talk about the fact that, although a student at such a country high school may not be able to choose Spanish or theatrical studies as we did in the past, life shows that the narrower choice of subjects is offset by a more affordable, individual and closer home learning environment in schools with 15 to 20 assistant students, not 150 to 200. We are not so poor that we should necessarily confront one possibility with another. From an educational economics point of view, it would be most effective to switch to e-learning at all and to separate the student completely from the teacher, which would, of course, be a complete disaster from the point of view of becoming a person and a member of society. In my opinion, it is clear that in order to maintain the quality of personality and academic quality, the Estonian education system will need much more money in the future than it is today, because small is expensive and we are small. We don't want to artificially blow up the house and put together a town, because a balloon like this will soon just blow up sadly. Despite the statistics that show that we are among the best in Europe at 6 to 7% of our GDP in terms of education costs, we must realise that this ratio must be different in order for our people to survive. To what end this can be achieved, it needs political decision. I am sure that this decision will be made once it is understood that this is not just a matter of teacher's salary or the personal success of the Minister of Education, but of the survival of our people and culture. Indeed, this is primarily about political will. Let us conclude by saying that, with the money that we would win, if we did not reduce income tax by 1%, we could raise the salaries of all current teachers by up to 30%. But it is probably up to the next Parliament. I will conclude with yesterday's address to the Minister of Education. Its final words were: 'We are few. We don't have much children. They are all worthy teachers who are satisfied with their work, bright in front of the students, motivated, full of self-esteem. They are worthy of the Estonian language, culture and Estonian nation state. ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U140	Thank you very much. I'm gonna ask for the next speech chair at Urmas Glass! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U141	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, We have talked about the importance and meaning of education for quite a long time today. We see a key issue in education when we talk about our people being healthier, happier, and better able to cope with their lives. Good education is a prerequisite for this. We are talking about the growth of our economy, the development of entrepreneurship, we are talking about Estonia should be an ambitious, innovative country with great growth. Education is once again a key issue. No one doubts the importance and meaning of education, just as none of us doubt the need for changes in the organisation and content of education. Similarly, none of us doubt that we need well-motivated teachers at school, and a key factor in teachers' motivation is a good salary. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I want to mark some specific issues that are on the agenda regarding the draft law on basic school and upper secondary school and its implementing act. First of all, how do the changes proposed in the draft law on basic school and upper secondary school affect secondary school near home? What does close to home primary school mean, anyway? Today we have heard different and quite broad definitions of this, but I am convinced that we should agree on and understand the meaning of a elementary school close to home. What criteria do we follow when we talk about quality education being available as close to home as possible? As long as it is not clear, the concept of'regional peculiarities' is not mentioned and not decorated. We are not clear, then, what it means that the funding of schools must be based on regional specificities, and that is precisely the principle of regional accessibility that must be taken into account in ensuring access to education. Mr Jõgisoo rightly mentioned that as long as these principles are not clearly enough stated in the draft and implementing legislation of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, it is not possible to understand what is really wanted and everything remains a beautiful eloquence. There is no impact analysis in the draft law on basic school and upper secondary school and in the implementing act. If we could find out how the proposed changes will affect the development of the school network, very many tensions would have been removed and could certainly be made more decisively. The lack of this impact analysis is certainly one of the reasons why emotions are aroused. As a separate subject, I fix a division of responsibility between the Ministry of Education and Research and local governments for the organisation of support services and the financing of support specialists. The draft law on basic school and upper secondary school has passed this issue. The next issue is investment support, which the state has provided to local authorities so far. In the draft law on basic school and upper secondary school, the grant granted from the state budget to cover the costs of investments has been excluded. The city of Tartu will lose nearly 300000 euros compared to the previous year. In good faith, however, commitments have been made to the municipality, for example, the Tartu Jaan Poska Gymnasium and the Tartu Herbert Masing School have been renovated. The question of how to proceed is more than justified. There were very fundamental questions in this Chamber today (this topic was also mentioned in a letter from the Ministry of Finance, which did not agree on the draft law on basic school and upper secondary school) on the subject of targeted support for education. Whether or not the purpose of the proposed education grant and the review of the competence of local authorities undermines the autonomy of local authorities and is in line with our constitutional provision and point or not, this unfortunately remained unanswered here today. In summary, we can move forward effectively in the organisation of education if the decisions to be taken are as consensual as possible. My proposal to the Minister for Education is to summarise all the differences that have sounded in this Chamber today, and those differences that have been formulated in the letters of the ministries, the Estonian Association of Rural Governments or other partners, to analyse them seriously and to try to move towards agreements with all partners. As long as we have not reached agreements, we should not move forward in haste, but be guided by existing legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U142	Thank you very much. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U143	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister! Waiters! Ladies and gentlemen, This year, painful changes have been made in education. Before Midsummer Day, the coalition's votes were pushed through the amendment of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. The new law took the teachers' confidence that their workload would not increase, that teachers' pay grades would be abolished, that in the near future the law would also remove class management as such, etc. Since funding for schools was in the heat of passion already in the summer, it was decided not to vote on this section and the Minister promised to return to the funding discussions in the autumn. It is now December, but there is still no clarity as to how schools will be financed in the future. The Minister said earlier that it was okay, that the schools had learned how the financing model was going to work until March, now it is hoped that they will hear about it in January. But in such a situation, how is it possible for a municipality or school to plan the future of education? After all, the school network is directly linked to a new, planned financing model, which requires very many painful decisions. If the financing model is not clear until the first quarter of the new year, how can all schools be secured with money? The Minister does not have the point of looking at this Chamber here; rather, he should look at his party associates or the ministry to find out why this work has not been done. Just before the adoption of the next year's state budget, the Ministry of Education and Research wants to change the financing of general education. The ministries have just completed the round of coordination of the draft law on basic school and upper secondary school. Changes in the financing of general education are strongly opposed by the Estonian Association of Rural Governments and the Estonian Association of Cities. A number of comments have been submitted by the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Interior. The Estonian Association of Rural Governments and the Ministry of Finance do not consider it possible to coordinate the draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. The comments made by the Ministry of Finance make it clear that the financing principles of general education are unclear. The Ministry's letter states that the draft finds the amount of the allocation based on the number of students, regional specificities, the cost of school lunches, national curricula, etc., but does not specify how these exhibitions are to be taken into account. In addition, the Ministry of Finance points out that there is so far no analysis showing how changing the principles of financing education would affect access to education. Interestingly, the Ministry of Finance is more concerned about the availability of education than the Ministry of Education and Research. Doesn't that seem strange? The Association of Estonian Rural Governments and the Association of Estonian Cities consider that the draft does not take into account the principles of the independent budget organisation of the local government unit. According to these organisations, there is no compelling justification for overly restricting the right of self-regulation of local authorities in the management of a budget for a single area of responsibility. According to the Constitution, everyone's right to education is one of the fundamental rights that the obligation to ensure is imposed on both the state and the local government. Since this is a co-responsibility, it must be taken into account that sufficient flexibility and discretion of the local government should be maintained. In addition to the above, the Municipalities Association and the Cities Association draw attention to the fact that the draft regulation does not solve the financing of the labour costs of school support specialists, although this was allowed. In particular, support for support specialists has been excluded from the draft. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U144	Moreover, even the possibility of covering the labour costs of support specialists from education allowance allocations has been excluded. If the Minister says that this is a local government problem and, according to law, it is the responsibility of the local government to resolve it, then I ask whether it would not be useful for the minister to stand up for local authorities to receive money from the budget so that they can fulfil this obligation. But the fact is, half of the municipalities don't have support specialists at work. I think that the new financing model will result in a further reduction in the number of these specialists next year. The Ministry of the Interior has pointed out that the draft does not make it clear how it is planned to treat municipalities, where there are as many students as possible, but whose territories are different in size. In addition, the financing model put in place may mean a significant concentration of the upper secondary school network in larger centres, which in turn generates additional costs for student transport and student homes. These costs, however, need to be assessed now. In conclusion, I would like to remind the Minister for Education and Research that, before making fundamental decisions, positions must be negotiated and agreed and only then can these decisions be implemented. This is a situation where the minister's left hand doesn't know what the right hand does. There is no certainty, but that is what we all need most: teachers, parents, school managers and local government leaders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U145	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U146	Thank you very much. Please, Andrus Island! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U147	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen. Yesterday, the members of the Committee on Culture were introduced to the 'Estonian Lifelong Learning Strategy 2014-2020'. This strategy highlights the points on which general education should develop over the next seven years. The material presented by the Commission compares the educational performance of Estonian students with those of their peers from other countries. By believing in our teachers and all the educators, I am sure that the results of PISA that will soon be published will give us cause for satisfaction, as has happened in previous years. However, this satisfaction will only be there for today if we do not make further efforts to improve the content and form of education. Now, what is really a concern and where we in this Chamber can contribute to finding solutions with our decisions. As several previous speakers have said, teacher status in society is not attractive enough. Many teachers themselves are also dissatisfied, stressed, and unappreciated. Yes, pay is not the only factor, but it is an important factor on the basis of which people make their choices. The aim of the IRL is to bring the teacher's and schoolmaster's salary to a level equivalent to the average salary of a higher education specialist in Estonia. This would increase the attractiveness of the teaching profession among young people, and especially young men, who are most deprived by schools. The number of students is also a source of concern, but not even the overall reduction in the number of children, but rather the internal migration of people, the relocation of people to centres and their immediate surroundings, is so important in the next seven years. This puts more pressure on the small rural schools still operating at home. Once again, we need to talk about money. There has been a lot of discussion here today. In my opinion, the funding principles need to be changed. Looking at the current principle of financing general education schools, the Estonian people seem to be a real estate religion rather than a belief in education. Due to the logic of financing general education, municipalities with more buildings and buildings, or real estate, are in a better position. Yes, we finance municipalities on the basis of the number of students, but on the basis of the buildings, which is because many of them are empty, half empty or are only a little walk away from each other. For example, I compared two totally equal schools with the same number of students and a single-size territory. What did I find? The difference is 36% in favour of one municipality, because it simply has more buildings. If this isn't unreasonable funding, then what is it? I will give you a few more examples of the current financing model, which I think needs to be changed. Management support does not logically relate to the scope of management. For example, a school with 1599 students receives the same amount of management support as a school with 600 students. The change in the number of students by one student will in some cases reduce school funding by 37%. This autumn also finances one upper secondary school where there is no student, etc. No, I do not think that the current model is entirely wrong, but I do not think it is sustainable to go on like this. I brought these examples only to illustrate why we would need to come back to § 82 of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act in the near future and why it would be reasonable for the government to move forward with a regulation on financing, which has been discussed for a whole year now. In many respects, the increase in the pay of teachers and the desire of local governments to make reasonable decisions have been left behind, reducing the amount of real estate that would reduce their economic burden. There's no way to read the wish to close schools again. Rather, in many municipalities, it is unreasonable to stop managing duplicate schools; here is the resource that can keep close to home basic schools alive. Whether these are four-, six- or nine-class schools is the decision of the municipality itself. 40% of municipalities currently have fewer than 100 basic school students, but there too, there must be a secondary school close to home. This support must take greater account of the new financing model. One might say that a school near home is a species at risk of extinction. It is to be welcomed that the Minister's plan that local authorities should be able to plan education funding in the long term over one year in the future. The concrete amount of next year should be known by the municipality even if we "knock" the state budget here in the Riigikogu. Unfortunately, that is not the case at the moment. Now I'm talking about myths. The teacher's workload does not increase; all teacher's duties must fit into 35 hours, including contact hours. The structure of the teacher's position includes 21 contact hours and no one must be forced to review existing employment contracts. The aim is to protect the teacher and make the school manager responsible for ensuring that the teacher's Years of scams, when teachers were assigned 21 or 22 contact hours, but in fact the workload reached 45 or even 50 hours per week, must end. Where has there been a trade union that has allowed such injustice to continue for years? The state has not withdrawn the class manager's fee. Class leadership is a dignified task and must be paid for in the way it has been done so far. The freedom to act flexibly gives the headmaster the opportunity, if necessary, to pay more for the hard work he has done. The representative of the Estonian Educational Workers' Association gave an example of a school where the class manager's fee or higher qualification fee did not reach the teacher. I ask, where did this country go when it didn't reach the teacher? In his presentation, Vello Jõgisoo, representative of the Estonian Association of Rural Governments, highlighted the concern that the new financing model has not been sufficiently discussed with the local governments. I didn't understand that. I was in this working group until June, we met every month, and we communicated more closely by e - mail and telephone. I know the last time this group got together was November 6. To talk about lack of information here is simply incomprehensible and incomprehensible to me. Mailis Reps pointed out the concern that the Minister's regulation, which seems to be on the coordination round, is incomprehensible and everything else to it. No, this regulation has not been sent to the coordination circle, it is still being made and maybe it will not make it to the coordination circle this year. It will certainly not get around until we have discussed it ourselves in the Committee on Culture and we have not negotiated the new version of § 82 of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. Finally, the real subject of discussion today was the school of general education. What is a sustainable general education school? This is a school where the student is increasingly a subject and less an object. It is a school where precepts, frames and norms are much less than they are now, where there is more room for creation and where school leaders and teachers are trusted. The task of the state is to support school owners so that they can pay a decent salary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U148	Thank you very much. There is no more negotiation request, I will close the negotiations. The debate on the first item is closed. Thank you to all performers and participants in the discussion!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U149	We're going to the next item. The second reading of the draft law amending the Public Procurement Act and the Code of Administrative Court Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I would like to present the Chair of the Vice-Chair of the Economic Commission, Urve Palo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U150	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Draft Act amending the Public Procurement Act and the Code of Administrative Court Procedure 474 was initiated by the Government of the Republic. a on September 9th. The main objective of the draft law is to clarify the provisions of the current Public Procurement Act in order to ensure that the Directive on law enforcement measures is properly harmonised by national law, and to eliminate the ambiguous points concerning the application of the standstill period for the award of contracts under the Framework Agreement and the dynamic purchasing system and the subsequent determination of nullity of contracts. It is also intended to clarify the regulation on the deadline for the submission of a dispute. The first reading of the draft act in Riigikogu's plenary session took place on 12 November and the first reading was closed. No amendments were received from members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees by the deadline for submitting amendments, which was at 12 noon on 18 November. The representative of the initiator of the draft act submitted three amendments to the Economic Commission for consideration. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed them at its meeting. November 21, 2008. The meeting was attended by Agris Peedu, Deputy Chancellor of Administrative Policy at the Ministry of Finance, as the representative of the initiator of the draft. The Commission supported all the proposals put forward by the initiator. Let me briefly talk about these proposals. Amendment 1 Since 2012, defence and security procurement has to be carried out in accordance with the Public Procurement Act. Around five such public procurements are announced annually. However, some of these procurements, and thus also disputes, relate to state secrets and classified external information, which require authorisation of access to state secrets. In addition, authorisation is necessary for the resolution of disputes concerning the legality of the application of the derogation under § 14 (2) of the Public Procurement Act. At present, the members of the appeal committee do not have access to state secrets, as there has been no need to do so. In addition to the members of the appeal committee, the staff of the Registry of the appeal committee should also be authorised. Special facilities should also be provided for the handling of state secrets and classified external information, as well as for the organisation of a closed session to deal with a dispute relating to such information and for the classification of the case. However, judges do have a state secret permit, which is due to their office. Courthouses also have adequate premises and regulations to declare the sitting in camera and to classify the file. So the content of the proposal is to refer disputes relating to state secrets and classified external information directly to the administrative court instead of the validation committee. There will be no additional financial costs for the court and the number of additional cases will be marginal. If the bill is supplemented by an amendment to the Code of Administrative Procedure, the title of the Act must also be changed. If this proposal is supported, a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required to enter into force as a bill. Amendment 2 solves the recent problem of the late media that the contracting authority is forced to declare the procurement procedure void and to start a new procurement procedure if tenders are to be submitted electronically, but that the public procurement register has not been operational on or just before the closing date for the submission of tenders and that no tenders could be submitted. The problem is particularly painful in the case of procurements with a value exceeding the international threshold, since the minimum time limit for the submission of tenders is then long and therefore, in the event of a new call for competition, the award of the contract is still delayed, but the contracting authority has not taken into account the fact that a new call for competition may be necessary as a result of technical difficulties. In practice, despite the long deadline, tenders are still submitted just before they arrive. A long time limit is foreseen to allow tenderers time to prepare a tender and to obtain the required documents from the authorities. The problem is also acute in the case of public procurement involving the use of structural instruments, where support must be used within the time limits laid down. Although this is not a common problem, for example, there have been 33 hours of interruptions in the register during this year. The Ministry of Finance has set a target that the level of availability of the register should be 99%. Therefore, this measure is necessary to mitigate the risks. Following the recovery of the public procurement register, the deadline for the electronic submission of tenders or requests to participate in the procurement procedure would be extended by a reasonable time but not less than 24 hours, considering the publication of the amended contract notice. In the case of public contracts with an estimated value equal to or exceeding the international threshold, the contracting authority shall extend the time limit for submitting a tender or a request to participate in a procurement procedure by at least five days. The third proposal improves the wording. The name of the Publications Office of the European Communities has changed and its new name is the Publications Office of the European Union. The Economic Commission adopted decisions to send the draft law amending the Public Procurement Act and the Code of Administrative Procedure of the Government of the Republic to the Riigikogu for a second reading by 3 December, i.e. today with the proposal to conclude the second reading. When the second reading of the draft is completed, we have a proposal to refer the draft to the third reading. a by 5 December, and put the draft law to a final vote. All these proposals were made by consensus in the Committee on Economic Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U151	Thank you very much. There's a question for you. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U152	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! My question is about the 24 hours. Is it really true that if a change has been made, one normal tender can be fixed within 24 hours or the change can be introduced? Point 2 states that 24 hours will be provided for this purpose. Do you still think it's long enough, or is it short?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U153	It should be taken into account that there has actually been much more time to prepare the procurement documentation. It has also been known to have a maturity that has been taken into account by the tenderers. This 24 hours will only come into play when obstacles to e-procurement have been observed, computer systems have not worked and it has not been possible to send the tender on time, which have arisen either at the time of the deadline for the submission of tenders or eight hours before. In that sense, 24 hours is quite enough. As soon as the system is declared to be in good condition, there shall be at least 24 hours to send the tender. You can give me more time, it's not forbidden, but at least 24 hours must have it. I think that is enough, precisely because the offer has been drawn up a long time ago, at least it should have been drawn up. If there are international procurements, then there are, yes, five working days.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U154	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. On the draft law, the Committee on Economic Affairs has tabled three amendments, and we will review them. Amendment 1 from the lead committee has been fully taken into account. Amendment 2 from the lead committee has been fully taken into account. Amendment 3 from the lead committee has been fully taken into account. The Commission's proposal is that the second reading of draft 474 should be completed. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U155	We're going to the next item. The second reading of the Act on Insurance Activities initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Act on Audit Activities and the Act amending the Law on Investment Funds 475 begins. I would like to present Kristen Michal, member of the Chair of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U156	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! I will tell you what we discussed in the Commission before the second reading of the draft law amending the Act on Insurance Activities, the Law on Audit Activities and the Law on Investment Funds. First of all, I would like to remind you that this bill was initiated by the Government of the Republic. a on September 9th. Its main objective is to ensure the effective functioning of the management system of insurers. Consequently, the Insurance Activities Act specifies the requirements for the management system of insurers. The insurance undertaking shall bring its activities and documents into line with the requirements for the management system and the transfer of activities related to the insurance activity set out in the draft by 1 April 2014, with the exception of the exceptions set out separately. More specifically, the insurance undertaking regulates ancillary activities. In addition, insurance premiums for insurance brokers' liability insurance contracts based on the Insurance Mediation Directive will be increased. The initiator of the draft act submitted five amendments to the Commission for consideration, three of which were motivated by the conversion of the Estonian Insurance Association. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the amendments submitted to the Commission at its meeting on 21 November. Kristiina Kubja, Chief Specialist of the Insurance Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, participated in the session as representative of the initiator of the bill. The Commission supported all the proposals put forward by the initiator. A longer explanation of the proposals is available in the second reading explanatory memorandum. Now I will be brief on the proposals. The first is the proposal to clarify the title. This proposal also delays the time set for the internal auditor to bring the insurer into line with the new requirements. The second proposal extends the possibility of a reduction in the share capital, whereas for purposes other than to cover losses, such as in the event of a merger, the approval of the Financial Supervision Authority is required to reduce the share capital. The third proposal specifies the time to bring the undertaking's activities into line with the requirement applicable to the person responsible for internal audit. The fourth proposal clarifies once again the nature of the reduction in share capital and its rules in the Investment Funds Act. The fifth amendment clarifies the entry into force provisions. The commission adopted a decision to send a draft law amending the Act on Insurance Activities, Audit Activities and Investment Funds Act initiated by the Government of the Republic to the Riigikogu for a second reading. a by 3 December, the proposal to conclude the second reading. When the second reading is completed, we propose to refer this draft to the third reading. a by 5 December, and put the draft law to a final vote. These were consensual decisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U157	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Kristen Michal! Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. Five amendments have been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs on the draft law, and we will review them. Amendment 1 has been fully taken into account by the commission, Amendment 2 has been fully taken into account, Amendment 3 has been fully taken into account, Amendment 4 has been fully taken into account and Amendment 5 has been fully taken into account. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is that the second reading of the draft should be completed. The second reading of Bill 475 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U158	Our fourth item today is the second reading of the draft law 509 on the amendment of the law on the grant of international protection to an alien initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. I ask Mart Nut, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, to present his speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U159	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I recall that this draft law has been initiated in order to bring Estonian laws into line with the European Union Directive. The first reading of the draft law took place in s. On 6 November 2004 the first reading was also completed and the amendments were expected by 4 p.m. on 15 November. The Constitutional Commission discussed the second reading of the draft at its regular meeting on Monday 18 November. Ly Pärn, Adviser to the Department of Migration and Border Guard Policy at the Ministry of the Interior, Kaire Sepper, Legal Adviser to the Department of Migration and Border Guard Policy at the Ministry of the Interior, and Tiia Raudma, Adviser to the Department of Higher Education at the Ministry of Education and Research, were invited to the discussion on this item. The debate on this draft law was very brief. It can probably be concluded that all the questions had become sufficiently clear during the first reading. As the draft is very technical, the members of the Riigikogu, the committees and the political groups did not propose amendments. However, the Commission decided to submit one amendment itself, in addition to the linguistic comments which will be submitted in any case on all drafts. This amendment concerns § 4 (1) which was worded as follows: 'This Act shall enter into force on the day following its publication in the Official Journal of the State. ' What was the reason for this amendment? Initially, due to the deadline for transposition of the Directive, the law was intended to enter into force. A situation may arise where the text of the Act cannot be published before 21 December in the Official Journal of the State, taking into account the time taken to process the draft and the time allowed for the President of the Republic to declare the Act. That was why the bill was amended. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs made its decisions in a consensual manner: first, it was decided to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda today, i.e. by 3 December 2013, second, it was decided to appoint me rapporteur (this decision had already been taken before the first reading, the Commission did not amend that decision), third, it was decided to propose that the second reading be closed and, when the second reading is closed at today's session, we have a proposal to send the draft to the third reading by 5 December 2013, i.e. the day after the final vote on the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U160	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thanks a lot, Mart Nutt! Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. There is one amendment to the draft law, and we will review it. This has been done by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The proposal of the Steering Committee is that this amendment should be fully taken into account. The Commission's proposal is that the second reading of draft 509 should be completed. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U161	The next item is the second reading of the draft Motor Insurance Act 423 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like a presentation by Kristen Michal, member of the Chair of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U162	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! On 19 November 2013, the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft Motor Insurance Act before sending it to the Riigikogu for second reading. In addition to the members of the committee, the Head of the Insurance Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, Siiri Tõniste and Lawyer Linda Lelumees, the Head of the Transport and Traffic Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications Sander Salmu and the Chief Specialist Eero Aarnite, Lauri Lugna, Deputy Director General of the Road Administration, and Martti Merila and Lauri Potsepp were invited to the meeting of the committee. In addition to this Commission debate, a number of working group meetings took place between the first and second readings. In addition to the members and officials of the Riigikogu, experts from the Ministry of Finance and representatives of the Estonian Motor Insurance Fund contributed to them. The draft is ambitious and there are quite a number of amendments, 41 in total. As one problem remains to be resolved in the future, there are now 40 amendments. I'm not going to go through all of them in order because they're available to everyone. In addition, both today and in the near future, proposals for a draft law can be made. In particular, the Commission unanimously decided that we would propose that the second reading of the draft be interrupted and that we ask for amendments to be tabled by 19 December. For the sake of convenience and clarity, we also decided in the Commission that there were explanations for each amendment. That way, you don't have to do two piles of paper at once if you want to understand what you're talking about. I'm gonna bring something out in keywords now. In the meantime, what have been done in the draft law on motor insurance and what are the essential principles of this bill? The purpose of the draft is to make road traffic accident victims more comfortable and motor insurance contracts similar and comparable to other insurance contracts. The bill has been a little bit like a snowball that rolls into more subjects. After all, we actually started with motor insurance, and now we have joined them in the traffic register. Greater changes have been made in this area. In particular, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of the Environment and the Environmental Inspectorate have offered the Commission solutions on how to put the traffic register in order and, at the same time, ensure that no one leaves waste lying around. To this end, the following measures are envisaged: First, stop at traffic records. This happens when at least two years have elapsed since the technical inspection and two years have also elapsed since the expiry of the last motor insurance policy. The entry shall be automatically restored when a technical inspection is carried out. Secondly, the vehicle shall be deleted from the register after proof by the relevant authorities that the vehicle has been destroyed. The police, the Rescue Board and the Environmental Inspectorate are the authorities that can provide such evidence. Thirdly, the vehicle can be removed from the register if the vehicle has been demolished or destroyed before 1 May 2004. Vehicles which have not undergone a roadworthiness test since 1 May 2004 may be removed from the register by simplified procedure on the basis of a declaration without proof of destruction. I would also like to remind you that a seasonally used vehicle can be left uninsured for 12 months, provided that it does not participate in traffic. In the event of damage to the vehicle, rehabilitation shall be preferred. This principle is not absolute; it applies only if it is reasonable and there is an agreement on it. The sufferer gets faster in dealing with the damage. The insurer must start the reimbursement within 30 days and explain the reason if the reimbursement is deferred for any reason. In the working group and in the committee, we removed the limit for recovery from the draft. That was my personal conviction, too. The EUR 3000 cap on recovery would protect a guilty driver who has broken the rules, but would be somewhat unfair to proper drivers who should cover this damage. For example, the recovery limit would have been applicable to drunk driving, looting and fleeing the scene. The Commission took the view that such a limit was not required by law. The regulation on compensation for non-material damage is also new in the draft, if you wish, then it can be said more simply that it is a matter of moral damage. Moral or non-material damage is a pre-requisite for damage and it is no longer necessary to claim compensation for such damage. Previously, the draft principle was that non-material damage would be capped at EUR 3200. With regard to the judgments of the Court of Justice, there is now a presumption of non-material damage in the case of mild damage to health of EUR 100 and particularly serious damage to health of EUR 3200. Such damage is expected in the future. If a person considers that the non-material damage suffered by him or her is greater, he or she must apply for further compensation. This change means that, in addition to other damages, the person is immediately compensated for non-material damage, i.e. the damage caused by the surviving person. If the vehicle is normally based abroad, the driver of this vehicle must be accompanied in Estonia by documents certifying payment of the insurance obligation. For the sake of clarity, we added this provision so that there would no longer be cases in the future where it could not be verified. Nothing will change for the people of Estonia here, we have an electronic register and we do not need to carry documents. As has been said, it concerns vehicles from other countries and their drivers. The new principle in this draft is also compensation for the loss of vehicle value. The reduction in the value of the vehicle shall be compensated if the vehicle is severely damaged and the person claims compensation for the restoration. The limit of severe damage shall be deemed to be the case where the costs exceed 50% of the market price of the vehicle and the repair involves a substantial restoration of the shape of the bearing hull or frame. In rural languages, it can be said that if there is a serious accident and then the vehicle is restored, it is possible to ask for compensation for the future loss of value of the vehicle. Above all, it protects one's material interests. In practice, you may recover your vehicle after the accident, but its market price is lower due to the accident and the difference should be compensated. Practice in this area is still emerging. Old vehicles are excluded from automatic insurance obligations. It's been a longer debate, but we decided to leave them out of it. What else are we going to specify in the future work? We certainly intend to specify the requirements for working and rest periods and whether and how they can be used to bring a recovery claim to the employer. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications will specify that, and then we'll come back to it. During the Commission's debate, we found that this problem can be resolved even less rigidly than we had previously stated. Let's try to find a better solution here. Further work is needed on the implementation side of the law. The date of entry into force of the law is now scheduled for 1 March, but it is probably necessary to postpone this deadline for a few months, because it is a rather large issue that affects many people. There is still a need to negotiate with all parties to ensure that IT systems and other operational issues are properly addressed. The draft must also be supplemented after Parliament has adopted, as a law, a draft law amending and implementing the law on law enforcement. I will pass on the procedural information. On 19 November, the Committee on Economic Affairs decided to propose that the second reading of the draft be suspended and that the deadline for the submission of amendments be set at 19 December. 12 p.m. (this was a consensual decision). Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U163	Thank you very much. Please, Aivar Chef, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U164	Good manager! Waitress! It is very right that a driver of a car registered abroad must have an insurance policy with him. But did the Commission mention the situation with our neighbours? In the past, the insurance card had to accompany us, do we now have to take the motor insurance policy with us when we go to Finland? Did you ever talk about it? Do the neighbors have the same procedure as this bill proposes?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U165	Thank you. We addressed this issue more generally. The Motor Insurance Act deals specifically with the situation within Estonia. This question arose because the police had signalled that cars were driving around Estonia, whose drivers say that they did not have the proof of payment of insurance obligations with them. Indeed, Estonia does not have to carry them. Life in Estonia has been made quite comfortable and so will the people of Estonia. With this amendment, we want to achieve that if someone whose vehicle is registered abroad comes here, he should be carrying these documents. What is happening abroad, we cannot change in Estonia. The situation is somewhat different in each country. We discussed this issue and tried to choose as less burdensome a measure as possible for people from any country. But this is one way of achieving that all vehicles are insured and that Estonian traffic is as uniform as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U166	No further questions. Thank you, Kristen Michal! Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. There are 40 amendments to the draft. Let's go through these in a row. Amendments 1 to 30 have been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs. Amendment No 1, the proposal is fully taken into account; amendment No 2, the proposal is fully taken into account; amendment No 3, the proposal is fully taken into account; amendment No 4, the proposal is fully taken into account; amendment No 5, the proposal is fully taken into account; amendment No 6, the proposal is fully taken into account; amendment No 7, the proposal is fully taken into account; amendment No 8, the proposal is fully taken into account; amendment No 9, the proposal is fully taken into account; amendment No 10, the proposal is fully taken into account; amendment No 11, the proposal is fully taken into account; amendment No 12, the proposal is fully taken into account; amendment No 18, the proposal is fully taken into account; amendment No 19, amendment No 19, the proposal is fully taken into account; amendment No 20, the proposal is fully taken into account; amendment No 21, the proposal is fully taken into account; amendment No 22, the proposal is fully taken into account; amendment No 23, the proposal is fully taken into account; amendment No 24 is fully taken into account; amendment No 26, amendment no. The 31st amendment has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the proposal of the commission is to disregard this amendment. Now we are going to review Amendments 32 to 39, which have again been tabled by the Committee on Economic Affairs. Amendment 32, the proposal is fully taken into account; Amendment 33, the proposal is fully taken into account; Amendment 34, the proposal is fully taken into account; Amendment 35, the proposal is fully taken into account; Amendment 36, the proposal is fully taken into account; Amendment 37, the proposal is fully taken into account; Amendment 38, the proposal is fully taken into account; Amendment 39, the proposal is fully taken into account. Amendment 40 has been made by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party and the commission has taken this proposal into account in substance. We have examined the amendments. The commission proposes that the second reading of draft 423 should be interrupted. I shall set the deadline for the submission of draft 423 amendments. 19 December at 12 noon Second reading aborted.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U167	The sixth item is the appointment of the "Auditor" of the decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, 2013. First reading of draft 535 for monitoring the activities carried out in 2005. Mr Urve Tiidus, Member of the Monetary Commission, would you like to present the speech chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U168	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Draft Decision 535 was initiated by the Committee on Monetary Affairs on 12 November and discussed in more detail at its meeting on 18 November. This draft decision is directly derived from § 5 of the National Audit Office Act, according to which an auditor is appointed to check the activities of the National Audit Office for the financial year on the proposal of the Permanent Monetary Committee of the Riigikogu. According to its decision, the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu will present a draft decision to appoint Grant Thornton Rimess OÜ to supervise the activities of the National Audit Office for the years 2013 to 2015. Grant Thornton Rimess OÜ proved to be the result of a simple procurement procedure organised by the National Audit Office's Procurement Committee. Four companies were known to participate in this procurement. Pursuant to § 117 (1) of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure, this draft decision of the Riigikogu is discussed only at one reading. Since the draft decision has been submitted by the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu, whose right to propose the appointment of an auditor is derived from § 5 of the National Audit Office Act, as mentioned above, no amendments to the draft can be tabled. At its meeting, the Commission took the following consensual decisions: it decided to propose that the draft be placed on the agenda by Tuesday, today, 3 December, and we propose that the draft be put to the final vote today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U169	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Urve Tiidus. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The proposal of the Steering Committee is that the draft should be put to a final vote. We are preparing for the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I will vote to the final vote on the decision of the Riigikogu 'Auditor' presented by the Committee on Monetary Affairs in the 2013/2015 National Audit Office. Draft 535 on the control of the activities carried out by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Please take a stand and vote. 48 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U170	Our seventh item on the agenda today is the first reading of the draft resolution of the Riigikogu on 'Construction of the Special Committee on Supervision of Security Authorities' submitted by the Estonian Centre Party Group. Please present a speech chair for a member of the Riigikogu Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U171	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The presentation of this draft is due to the fact that Aadu Must, who was a member of the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Institutions, according to the law, would still be a member of the Riigikogu. The decision of the Riigikogu of 5 May 2011 setting up a special committee on the supervision of security authorities and appointing its members should therefore be amended. The Central Party Group of the Riigikogu proposes to appoint Enn Eesmaa as a member of the Special Committee on Supervision of Security Authorities instead of Aadu Black. The Group also proposes that Priit Toobal be appointed as an alternate member of the Special Committee on the Supervision of Security Authorities in Enn Frontland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U172	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U173	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Despite all the respect for the freedom of each political group to present its candidate, I ask whether you have taken into account that it is in some ways difficult for Priit Toobal to be an alternate on this committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U174	Due to the fact that there is a presumption of innocence in Estonia, this fact did not come up very sharply.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U175	Please, Evgeny Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U176	Thank you. Dear waitress, I'll continue with Eiki Nestor's question. Certainly there is a presumption of innocence in Estonia, but is it not reasonable, from the point of view of the reputation of our Parliament, that this person should not be involved in the work of a committee that supervises our law enforcement authorities?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U177	I basically think we can't make decisions based on someone being suspected or accused. Still, something could happen. I don't think that's a problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U178	Thank you very much. No further questions. Mr Borodichi, vice-chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, for a co-presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U179	Good chairman of the sitting! Colleagues! This draft was discussed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs at its regular meeting on 19 November. The Commission has decided to propose the completion of the first reading, and we also propose that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 10 working days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U180	Please, Eiki Nestor, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U181	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the Commission. Did the Commission not raise the question of whether it is right to designate the person for whom the question has been raised as an alternate member in a position to take account of the desire of the prosecutor's office to withdraw the immunity? Did the Commission not propose to the Group of the Honourable Centre Party to consider replacing an alternate?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U182	No, we did not make such a proposal, and we did not discuss any personal issues at all. We didn't think it was necessary. But this is the first reading of the bill. If anyone has other proposals, they can be drafted as amendments within 10 working days.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U183	Thank you. Please, Jevgeni Ossinovski, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U184	Thank you. Dear waitress, As Vice-Chairman of the Constitutional Committee, how do you assess the situation in which a member of the suspected Riigikogu is appointed (though as an alternate, but in principle as a member) to a committee that supervises law enforcement authorities? Do you think this behaviour is good practice in a democratic society?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U185	As a Commission rapporteur, I do not think I have the authority to speak here about my opinions and preferences. Especially in view of my earlier political affiliation, it may be misinterpreted. I certainly don't want that. The author of this draft expressed his wish. Every political group in a democratic country, every parliamentarians, must have the right to initiate a bill. This draft initiated is an expression of the will of the Centre Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U186	Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U187	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! As we know, nearly a year ago, the state's attorney general applied to the Chancellor of Justice to propose to the Riigikogu to give his consent to withdraw the immunity of Priit Toobal and to prepare an indictment against him. We had this question briefly before the Commission, if you remember. This question was raised and dealt with by the Commission. What was the outcome of this debate in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U188	Thank you. I'm sure we exchanged some emotions on this subject. However, given that the first reading of the draft initiated by the Centre Party Group is currently taking place, anyone who has opinions on better candidates or alternates will be able to formalise these opinions as a proposal within ten days.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U189	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U190	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Commission waitress, In democratic countries, perhaps something has changed here, which I do not know, that if the judgment has not entered into force, the person must not be labeled, accused or in any way violated. This is the same principle as the former Minister of Culture spoke about here yesterday. Are things different for you at the committee? Do you have all the people who are members of the Commission being discussed in the committee with a view to finding out if there is anything interesting and suspicious about anyone? Why is the Secretary General of the Centre Party an exception to our democracy?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U191	As I said, we did not deal with very many personal issues at the Commission meeting. Since the name of our committee is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, our most important document is the Constitution. The presumption of innocence is certainly protected by the Constitution. Surely we are not questioning the Constitution anywhere, and I think that is the way it should be. But, as I said, if anyone has other proposals, whether on this or on any other draft, then in a democratic country, there is always a choice, and so is now.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U192	Thank you very much. No further questions, Deniss Borodich. Is there a desire to negotiate? Eiki Nestor, please respond!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U193	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Without wanting to hurt or blame anyone, or I don't know what else, I'll say the following. You see, the situation is that, when Priit Toobal is appointed as an alternate member of the Commission, he should, in these circumstances, be expected to withdraw from the work of this committee. It would be unpleasant for him, for the Centre Party Group and for the entire Riigikogu. I therefore make a simple and clear proposal: colleagues from the Centre Party Group, think about the candidate for the second alternate, and we will be happy to vote in favour of this draft decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U194	Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, from the line!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U195	I have an equal proposal for my esteemed colleague who has just been present: bring sunglasses and summer slippers tomorrow, because tomorrow may be 30 degrees of heat, the sun shines, and we will go for a sunbathing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-03_U196	Thank you. There are no more requests for negotiation. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft 534 should be completed. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 534 amendments. 17 December at 5.15 p.m. The time for our extended sitting has also come to an end. We missed the eighth item, which will be postponed to the next sitting. Closure of the sitting at 2 p.m.
