ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U1	Good morning. Honourable Riigikogu! Your Excellencys! We will begin the session of the fifth working week of the fifth plenary session of the Riigikogu on Thursday. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or questions. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U2	Mr President! I have two questions, two minutes for each of you! The first question is addressed to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher, and concerns the situation of the staff of the Police and Border Guard Board. A few days ago, we were shocked by the Estonian press, where an article was published with the characteristic title 'Police and Border Guard will bleed to death'. And the way it is, there's about 100 people disappearing every year. My personal experience shows that in recent years 333 officials have been reduced in the last three years. Thus, it can be argued that the Police and Border Guard Board has a chronic shortage of staff and that the critical limit is reached. In view of all this, nine members of the Riigikogu want to ask the Minister of the Interior some questions. The second question is also addressed to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher, but this is a slightly more interesting situation already in the light of the process of questioning. It's the same inquiry number 292 that got in on Monday this week. The inquiry concerned a corrupt official and his involvement in the Latvian underworld. A few days ago, I received a letter signed by Mrs. Ene Ergma. I quote: 'In your inquiry, you ask the Minister of the Interior for so precise information as to relate to one person that it is a written question, not an inquiry. I therefore propose that these questions be put to the Minister for the Interior as a written question. " Despite the fact that I did not accept this proposal, the inquiry was withdrawn from the register anyway. I am of the opinion that everything that is taking place under the direction of one Minister or another must be publicly and publicly available. I am not alone in this conviction. Only yesterday, Minister for Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas, said in this Chamber in Question Time: 'Of course, everything that happens in the hands of a minister is ultimately politically also responsible. ' That's right! Therefore, on behalf of several members of the Riigikogu, I will report again on the inquiry into the corrupt official of the kapo and his involvement with the Latvian underworld. I believe that this organisation, which protects the security of our country, must be cleaner than that, and we will not achieve that result if we do not deal specifically with it, including in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U3	Speaking chair of the Riigikogu, Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group and five members of the Riigikogu belonging to the Democratic People's Party, I hereby submit to the proceedings a draft law amending the Electricity Market Act. The purpose of the draft is to ease the transition to an open electricity market on 1 January 2013 for household and business customers. To this end, it is proposed to amend the electricity market law in such a way that the cost of financing renewable energy support will be borne by the State instead of the consumer. The most important thing in the content of the draft is that renewable energy support is financed by revenue from the sale of emission allowances under the EU Emissions Trading Directive. If the proceeds from the sale do not cover the amount of renewable energy support, the missing part of the state budget will be covered. If the proceeds from the sale exceed the amount of renewable energy support to be paid, the remainder shall be transferred to the State budget. Since 10 April 2010, large consumers in Estonia, whose annual consumption exceeds 2 gigawatt-hours, are obliged to purchase electricity on the stock exchange. According to Elering, the price of electricity in open market conditions has been on average EUR 46 per megawatt-hour, which is almost 50% higher than the regulated electricity price in the captive market. On 1 January this year, the electricity market opened up throughout Estonia, which means that small producers and households also have to buy electricity at stock exchange prices. According to the new electricity price list of Eesti Energia, in January this year, household customers paid 13.66 euro cents for the package "Electricity at the exchange price' for 1 kilowatt-hour. Of this, the basic tariff is 4.51 eurocents, the network service is 5.56 eurocents, the renewable energy fee is 0.87 eurocents, the electricity excise is 0.447 eurocents and the VAT is 2.28 eurocents. The core tariff component will increase by 40-50% this year for household customers. If our bill were adopted, if the payment of the renewable energy fee were to be paid to the state, the average family's electricity bill would be reduced by 37 euros in the middle.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U5	Dear colleagues, on behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two inquiries and one draft. The Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing in accordance with our Home and Working Procedures Act. Let's move on to the messages. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Dear colleagues, today, after the plenary session, there will be a meeting in the Chamber to set up an Envoy Group against Trafficking in Human Beings and Violence. Kalle Laanet is a member of the Riigikogu. We're looking forward to active participation! We're gonna do a presence check. 77 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 24.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U6	Let's get to today's agenda. The first item is the debate on foreign policy as a key national issue. Let me briefly present the procedure for this procedure. According to § 153 of the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, on the proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Executive Board has appointed the following procedure for discussing foreign policy as a matter of major importance. First, the presentation of the Foreign Minister Urmas Paet is up to 30 minutes, after which there will be questions and answers for up to 60 minutes. The presentation by Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, is then up to 20 minutes and the questions and answers are up to 30 minutes. A member of the Riigikogu may ask both rapporteurs an oral question. After that there will be a round of negotiations where all members of the Riigikogu can take the floor. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has sent a request to the Riigikogu that representatives of the political groups first take the floor. At the end of the discussion, the Riigikogu will not take a decision. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has also proposed to extend the current session until the agenda is exhausted, if necessary, but no longer than 14 p.m. We will vote on this proposal in the course of the work, should we have such a need. I now ask for the presentation of the Riigikogu speech chair by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Paeti!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U7	Good morning. Good chairman of the sitting! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Good guests! We will soon all celebrate the 95th anniversary of the Estonian state together, and at the end of March, the day will come when it has been as long in time as it was before the war without interruption. Our foundations of statehood are now stronger and firmer than they were 21 or 74 years ago. We have passed the stage of restoring our statehood, of re-integration with Europe and the world. The Estonian Encyclopedia of the Interwar Period states that diplomacy is a method of pursuing the country's foreign policy objectives. However, foreign policy is also a reflection of internal policy. External activities must serve the interests of the Estonian people. The government's goal is a substantive and human-centred foreign policy in our neighbourhood, in the world's present and future power and economic centers and in the connections that are important to us, to which we already belong. Good listeners! Foreign policy serving people is at the heart of the presentation. Human rights and values are a cross-cutting issue on all foreign policy issues, be they security or European policy, economic or consular. The improvement and protection of the human rights situation has been for 95 years and will continue to be a fundamental attitude and goal for Estonia. Human rights are the cornerstone of peace, security and sustainable development. This is a good example of how truly idealistic things are also pragmatic and vice versa. Estonia is at the top of the world in terms of personal, economic and political freedoms. We enjoy extensive freedom of movement. At the same time, we want to protect these rights both at home and further away. We too will win if these freedoms and rights are guaranteed to other nations. It is important to stress here that, unlike arbitrary acts, true freedom is responsible. As Lord Acton once said: 'Freedom is the right to do what we should do. ' We defend and want to expand a world that respects the rule of law and human rights. Estonia became a member of the UN Human Rights Council for the first time in history. The priorities of the government in this Council are women's and children's rights, gender considerations in conflict resolution, the fight against impunity and the rights of indigenous peoples. We pay particular attention to freedom of expression and the Internet. The Human Rights Council contributes to the prevention and response of conflicts and mass human rights violations. This ties in with our activities in supporting the International Criminal Court, whose national assemblies are led by an Estonian diplomat. We consider the development of the court to be important in order to help prevent the committing of serious crimes. 122 countries have already joined the Rome Statute. Let's continue the persuasion work so that the joiners can be added. This is the only way to prevent and prosecute major crimes against humanity. Freedom on the Internet is important as the digital divide grows and when authoritarian countries are looking for ways to restrict access to the Internet. Our policy is to address Internet freedom through fundamental freedoms and human rights. For the third year in a row, we are the world leader in Internet freedom. Supporting freedom of expression on the Internet is as important for Estonia as supporting other activities related to the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms. We belong to the coalition of Internet freedom, which Estonia will lead next year. At the conference of the International Telecommunication Union, we opposed increased regulation of the Internet. The government will continue to work against justifying online censorship. The other side of the Internet freedom coin is cyber security. This is an integral part of security. It also includes cyber defence and security and the protection of critical information infrastructure. All of this has a growing impact on our daily lives, including in the physical world. Possible cyber attacks are no longer limited to paralyzing websites. World energy, water, transport and other strategic infrastructures are heavily dependent on vulnerable technologies. E-state and networking have been a conscious choice. At the same time, we need to make more contributions to cope with the risks involved. This means cyber security is a priority. A growing number of countries have come to understand the importance of cyber security. An important development is the completion of the European Union's cybersecurity strategy. Also the work of the NATO Cyber Defence Centre. France and Great Britain recently announced joining the centre in Tallinn. The Estonian Cyber Defence League is an example of the collective efforts of the private and public sectors that have aroused a great deal of interest in the world. Estonia is a modern security manufacturer in the cyber field. We have effectively strengthened security, i.e. at low cost. But the government also stresses, of course, the need to develop NATO's conventional capabilities. The war in Afghanistan, in turn, is an example of how what seems to be happening far away affects us. It is characteristic of the world of the 21st century. Estonia is grateful to every soldier, civilian and their families who have sacrificed much for Estonia's security. Full security responsibility will be transferred to the Afghan security forces in the middle of this year. We are now continuing with 170 members of the Defence Forces in South Afghanistan, where cooperation with the British forces has gone well. The decision on exactly when we'll bring out our company will be made in the near future. NATO will continue in Afghanistan beyond 2014, leading an international training mission. Estonia is also ready to help build the rule of law. We will significantly increase the support for development cooperation in Afghanistan. Our priorities in this area are health, education, good governance and security. This action has been effective. For example, around 80% of the population in Helmand have access to free healthcare. The whole province is well covered with a network of clinics. Our health expert co-ordinated Estonian and international development cooperation projects, and he also advised the government of Helmand Province. The picture is significantly different than when we started there years ago. The countries of Central Asia are also strategic in terms of cooperation towards Afghanistan. Until now, the main focus has been on transit, but there is certainly a need to expand. The wider Middle East and North Africa region are one of the world's main threats. Terrorist organisations in the region are trying to turn the difficult situation in their favor. Paradoxically today, action is needed far from home to make it safe to live at home. Estonia, for example, participates in the European Union anti-piracy operation Atalanta. It is also planned to participate in the European Union Training Mission in Mali. All of this has a practical connection to Estonia. It is important to us that extremists that threaten the peace and stability of the whole world do not enter power in Mali, Afghanistan or anywhere else. It is important to us that the pirates of Somalia do not harm the world economy and also the Estonian economy by their actions. Returning to NATO, it is important that the alliance continues to be active, especially after the Afghanistan mission has been pulled together. Estonia has kept and will continue to keep the attention of its allies on their main tasks, such as protecting NATO territory and ensuring deterrence. The reason is simple: this activity is the biggest security guarantee for Estonia and our entire region. The last NATO summit confirmed these principles. A good example of this year's NATO major exercise in Poland and the Baltic countries is Steadfast Jazz, which focuses on training collective defence. An important achievement from Estonia's point of view was the decision that Baltic air security will continue as an open-ended mission. So far, the air security mission base has been in Lithuania. In two years, Ämari Airport will be fully operational. Estonia is working to ensure that at least one air security rotation is located in Ämar every year in the future. It is logical that a mission in the interests of the three countries will use all the possibilities available. The introduction of the Ämari airport to ensure Baltic air security is exactly what it offers. One of the purposes of building the airport was rotation. Estonia recognises all countries that have participated in our air security. Germany, then Poland, France and Denmark have been the most frequently involved. The overall lack of resources and the concept of smart protection require more cooperation and pooling of capabilities. In this context, it is important to emphasise the importance of defence expenditure. Today, Estonia is one of the few allies capable of guaranteeing NATO's minimum level of protection, or 2% of GDP. We want our allies and our closest partners to also aim to contribute more to the defence budget. Recalling the Coriolanus of Shakespeare: 'When the sea was quiet, all the ships sailed equally masterfully. ' But, as we know, there are more stormy moments from time to time. The government therefore continues to believe that Europe needs to contribute more to security. The US cannot and will not have to bear all the responsibility and costs, just as Germany alone does not have to bear Europe's debt. Good listeners! Security in the Baltic Sea region is stable, but needs to be strengthened as a whole. The Nordic region is a high-quality brand in economic and financial matters, but we must set the same security objective throughout the region. Estonia wishes to see more of Finland and Sweden related to NATO, also as a member of NATO when its societies are ready to do so in the future. In any case, we must strengthen NATO-centred cooperation in our region. We also cooperate regularly and substantially with Finland and Sweden on NATO crisis management exercises. Much of our cooperation takes place within the framework of the European Union. The Nordic Battle Group is one way to intensify this defence cooperation further. Northern Europe is economically and financially strong. We are more competitive, stable and with faster growth than the rest of Europe. But that doesn't mean everything here is perfect. We're doing better here in the North than anywhere else, but we're not doing as well as we'd like. Closer regional cooperation is essential. Next year, Estonia will coordinate cooperation between the Nordic countries and the Baltic States, and will also chair the Baltic Council. We therefore have a direct opportunity to contribute to strengthening the ties between the Nordic and Baltic countries. We support the accession of Latvia and Lithuania to the euro area and the OECD. As the region's most integrated country, Estonia aims to strengthen the entire region. It is in the interests of Estonia, as well as of Finland, Latvia and Lithuania that Sweden and Denmark, which are not part of the euro zone, do not distance themselves from the core of the European Union. Poland and Germany are key countries in the Baltic Sea region. We encourage Germany to play an even more leading role in the 'Nordic Reasonable Management' camp. As in the case of Latvia and Lithuania, we support Poland's accession to the euro. There has been an increase in the positive perception of the euro and Poland's possible accession to the euro area has become more real in a few years' time. Estonia wants both Poland and Germany to feel more like the countries of the Baltic Sea region. In order to build modern and fast transport links with Western Europe, it is crucial to develop the infrastructure in our region, the opposite being unthinkable. Nearly 15% of the world's maritime transport is already taking place in the Baltic Sea region. A proper rail link with other Europe will improve people's mobility and increase the competitiveness of the region. The Rail Baltic project serves this purpose. During the last year, a great deal of work has been done in this regard. We're not talking about project planning anymore. Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania are preparing the project and Poland and Finland are also involved. At least as important is the creation of energy interconnections. The achievement of this objective shall be supported by a functioning internal market and by energy trade with third countries on a common basis. This year, the regional LNG terminal will be identified. After Estlink 2 has been completed, electricity prices can also be expected to stabilise. NordBalt submarine cable between Lithuania and Sweden and LitPol Link between Lithuania and Poland, as well as a new Estonian-Latvian electricity connection. This is how we create the electric circuit of the Baltic countries. I hope that we will soon be able to fully integrate into the entire European energy market and get out of the status of the energy island. We must work to ensure that what we do in the European Union supports the success and future goals of our region so far. I began with the statement that Estonia is reintegrated into Europe. This does not mean that we can now be distracted from Europe to other issues. The goal has never been just to join. More important than form, more important than the fact that we belong to the European Union is what we do in Europe. It is important how we stand up for the interests and rights of our people, but also for the interests of the whole of Europe. Among our objectives is the final resolution of the debt crisis. Proper diagnosis is a prerequisite for effective treatment. This crisis is not just a cyclical phenomenon. These are structural problems, a mistake in debt and deficits. The government has consistently stood for the whole of the European Union to accept this diagnosis. Our work has been effective. The crisis has, of course, been a long one, and no one will deny it, but at the same time both the Estonian and European economies are already standing on a more solid foundation. It may seem that the European Union is slowly resolving the crisis. However, Member States have taken steps towards a solution. By moving towards binding rules and responsible monetary policy, the Community is increasingly taking a form that is in Estonia's interest. Endangered economies, including in southern Europe, have taken significant steps to control the situation at home. A year ago, some economists predicted the collapse of the euro area. On the other hand, developments in recent months strengthen confidence in the stability of the euro area. During the European Union's budget negotiations, we have obtained support for matters that are important to Estonia. Estonia stands for deepening the internal market and developing the digital market. However, growth does not just have to come from within the European Union. Access to large and emerging markets is essential. The European Union must continue to liberalise trade and conclude comprehensive free trade agreements. We are talking about countries such as the US, Canada, Japan, but also the eastern partners of the European Union. This will enable companies to have greater confidence in entering and operating new markets. I hope that European-US relations will deepen further during President Obama's new term of office, as the mutual interest and special relationship between Europe and the US is natural. The potential of the US market is yet to be fully exhausted. A comprehensive free trade agreement between the European Union and the US would boost transatlantic trade. It would win both economies, add jobs. Since the European Union and the US are the two largest economies in the world, it is important that we work towards mutually beneficial solutions and common interests in the world. Estonia's relations with the US are also of special importance. Our cooperation has progressed and is now much more versatile, not just in the field of security. Examples include joint development cooperation projects in Belarus, Moldova and Georgia, as well as cooperation in an open governance partnership where we share our e-governance and good governance experience. However, further integration of the euro area and the future of the European Union still need to be discussed in depth, also in Estonia. A place at the table ensures that we are sovereign decision-makers, not a choice on the menu of others. Non-membership in the euro area is an increasingly important issue for the outsiders. The euro area has become the real core of the European Union. The deeper the core integrates, the further the outsiders go. At the same time, Estonia wants no one to be left out of the key issues or to be away from the European Union. Good listeners! The European Union has received the Nobel Peace Prize because it has indeed been a successful peace project. But the world around us is still changing and restless. We must pay attention to this and constantly reflect on security. It is a fact that the countries of the European Union are not fighting against each other, that the current enlargement has ensured a peaceful region in Europe. But this development is not over, Europe is not ready. There are still European countries that are not in the European Union but want to get there. The enlargement process must therefore continue. Croatia's accession is a positive step and encourages the other Western Balkan countries to pursue reforms. Clearly, the European Union will continue to be attractive if more than ten countries wish to join it. It is possible that accession negotiations with Serbia and Macedonia will begin this year. We consider it important to have rapid talks with Montenegro and Iceland and to continue negotiations with Turkey. We therefore hope that the European Union will soon also expand in northern Europe and Iceland will become a Member State. The Eastern Partnership of the European Union has been a long focus and a priority. At the Eastern Partnership Summit in Vilnius at the end of the year, we want to see concrete results in relation to several partners. Moldova stands out most positively, Georgia has also succeeded. With both of us, we can probably conclude the association negotiations this year. Armenia has also significantly reformed and promoted political and economic integration. More or less setbacks have occurred with other partners. We hope that they will be temporary, and we can finally sign an association agreement with Ukraine. If it goes well, we can say in Vilnius that the free trade area will expand with three or four new partners. It is also important for Estonia to extend its visa-free regime. We must not forget the frozen conflicts; they must not prevent the integration of the Eastern partners. It is therefore still important to support the settlement of the conflict between Georgia and Russia, as well as the conflict between Nagorno-Karabakh and Transnistria. Estonia's relations with Russia are developing and working. On the basis of the proposal of the Riigikogu, we have started new consultations on the border agreement. We have recently concluded a pension agreement and a border point agreement and an implementation protocol for readmission. Progress is also being made in concluding higher education, cross-border cooperation and emergency agreements. The government is interested in developing a partnership between Russia and the European Union as a whole. We support the conclusion of a new Treaty of Comprehensive Relations. Our bilateral communication is also more active, trade is growing and more Russian tourists are visiting Estonia. Russia's accession to the WTO has created new opportunities and led to a number of positive aspects, but unfortunately Russia does not fulfil all its commitments when it joins, for example by restricting the import of live animals. Developments in the southern neighbourhood after the Arab Spring have been slow and uneven. Change was the free will of the people there. We support this, but we recognise that changes have not come easily and there is still a lot to be done. There have also been questions about the security of the region. In terms of the stability of the region, the European Union is concerned to find a peaceful solution to the Syrian civil war. The humanitarian situation there is catastrophic and human rights violations are unacceptable. Estonia has supported Syrian refugees on several occasions. A month ago, I visited a refugee camp in Zamar with nearly 63000 refugees in Jordan, where the situation is very difficult and tragic. The international community must provide much more assistance to these people and, of course, make every effort to put an end to the violence in Syria. Development and humanitarian aid issues have occasionally also raised questions. Why does Estonia even provide development aid when there are many places to spend money at home? Estonia is among the world's top 50 in prosperity. At least 150 countries are clearly poorer than us, as well as violence and natural disasters in many countries. In the 1990's, we ourselves received much help from others. Paraphrasing Vergilius: the difficulties are not foreign to Estonia, so we have learned to ease the suffering of others. Helping weaker and inferior ones is the natural behavior of a self-respecting society. This is not a question of development aid, but let us not forget that for every euro that Estonia pays to the budget of the European Union, we will get four euros back. We want the European Union to use Estonia's reform or transition experience in development cooperation. We will focus on the transversal importance of human rights and stronger conditionality in development cooperation. Compared to many others, our national development aid is low. We feel a moral obligation to grow it slowly and with strength, and we have done so. The target of 0.17% of GDP remains. However, in the light of growing development aid, we must also think about expanding our activities. We are currently mainly working towards the Eastern partners and Afghanistan, but it makes sense to start working in Central Asia, for example, and in other regions. Of course, we must bear in mind that money alone does not fix anything. Arthur Brooks, president of a prestigious think tank in the United States, has rightly said that any foreign aid is just a patch, a drug is a free market economy. We have experienced this in Estonia, with the right reforms leading to real development. This experience is the best we can offer to developing countries. Good listeners! The world is constantly changing. This means that the countries that have been in the shadows of the world will be speaking along. Estonia must also take this into account. At the same time, we must be aware that the rise of the rest of the world, especially Asia, will not come at the expense of Europe, the rest of the Western world. This is not a zero sum game. You can think of the energy independence coming to the United States. Estonia must therefore find additional opportunities to pay attention to emerging markets and power centres. We are, for example, a candidate for UN Security Council membership in 2020. I am grateful to the Riigikogu and the public for their participation in discussions about Estonia's opportunities in Asia and elsewhere. An Asian debate took place in the Riigikogu, and the government adopted the Asian programme in the autumn, which is also a good follow-up to the development of specific activities. An important step that can be taken by the government is to increase Estonia's presence in remote areas. That is why we hope to open our own embassy building in Beijing for the first time this year, we have just opened our embassy in India, and we will also send our representative to Brazil to prepare for the opening of the embassy. The establishment of Estonia's presence in the top ten countries of the world economy will be completed with the representations of India and Brazil. Today, almost 51% of Estonian exports are related to only four of them: Sweden, Finland, Russia and Latvia. New outlets will hopefully create conditions to diversify the distribution of exports. I have been talking about the European Union, NATO, bilateral relations. In the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, the OECD, where we are a fresh member, Estonia is already the vice-chairman of the Council of Ministers this year. This role will make it possible to influence the work and image of the organisation significantly more. One of the reasons why we joined the OECD is that, as a member, we can stand more effectively for the liberal economic principles that have brought success to our people and our country. The state of the world economy is the main theme of the ministerial meeting. The issue of employment and reforms is still under discussion, as is the further expansion of Latvia and Lithuania, among others. Good listeners! In consular policy too, Estonia's approach is, of course, human-centred. The new offices have provided an opportunity to provide more consular services. Last year the volume of both issuing visas and providing consular services increased considerably. The issue of visas increased by 21.5% over the year and the volume of consular operations increased by 34.6%. We are increasingly using the network of honorary consuls and the possibilities of visa representation agreements. As a result, countries where Estonia does not have its own representative will be less and less. We are also looking for additional ways to expand cooperation with the countries of the European Union. We have expanded the use of IT solutions to raise the awareness and security of Estonians. We invest in activities that help Estonians to avoid problems abroad in the beginning. Brazil, Kyrgyzstan and Armenia have been added as new visa-free destinations. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Foreign policy serves the people of Estonia both on a value-based and pragmatic basis, because security, human rights and the stability of the economic environment are our main interests. We strive internationally for the same goals that we have set ourselves in Estonia so that it is safer and better to live in Estonia and throughout the world. I say thank you all, members of the Riigikogu, for your very good cooperation in standing up for Estonia's foreign policy interests. In particular, I would like to thank the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on European Union Affairs for their very substantial and close cooperation. Kaspar, born in 2002, said in the framework of the Delfi project, which portrays the lives of 95 people on the country's 95th birthday: "It is good to live in Estonia because there is a good language and good friends. " Kaspar wished there was no war, so there would be good luck and money. I totally agree with him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U8	Thank you, Minister. You have a lot of questions, too. Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U9	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Secretary of State! It is known that the country's foreign, internal and economic policies are closely linked. You said in your speech to Russia that progress was made on cross-border cooperation agreements. As an ambassador to south-eastern Estonia or Võru, Valga and Põlva County, this topic is very close to my heart, as almost every meeting with the local people comes from the mouth of entrepreneurs and farmers, questions about when it will return to the Leningrad market and when it will be easier to trade across the border. Therefore, I have a request that you open up your statement a little more. What progress is there in cross-border cooperation?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U10	There are quite a number of these examples, and I am glad that there are many examples of the same region you are talking about, or South Estonia. For example, there is cooperation with towns, villages and municipalities in the region of Pihkva. There is cooperation between municipalities and schools, cultural cooperation and more and more cooperation in the field of entrepreneurship. There are more examples. So, compared to a few years ago, I think the picture has changed a lot. As far as trade is concerned, it is clear that Russia does not belong to the European Union, which means that trade with Russia is still more complicated than with the countries of the European Union. But Russia's recent accession to the World Trade Organisation also simplifies trade and business rules. If we look at Estonian-Russian trade more widely, for example, last summer there were a few months, where Russia was Estonia's most important export partner at all, and the absolute volume of trade has also clearly increased. I think that those people who would like to sell cucumbers or other goods on the market in St. Petersburg could now do it again and look exactly at the conditions. Don't think that's impossible anyway. I think it's less and less impossible, rather it's possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U11	Olga Soldier, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U12	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I would like to thank you, in particular, for dedicating in your presentation a quite large section on Internet freedom. It is very sympathetic that we are addressing Internet freedom at national level through fundamental freedoms and human rights. My question also concerns the protection of human rights on the Internet. A few days ago, I presented your colleague to Home Secretary Ken-Marti Vaher with an inquiry into algorithmic profiling. A big newspaper has written about it today. By profiling, I mean systems that automatically, without human interference, monitor Internet traffic and phone calls, identifying in communication, for example, some dangerous patterns that suggest terrorism or money laundering. They shall also inform the relevant national body, indicating the name of the person and the general topic on which the person might be interested. Does Estonia participate in intra-Union or international cooperation, part of which is the algorithmic profiling of individuals?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U13	That's the detailed answer I owe you right now. This is the specificity of the work of other authorities. However, Estonia is clearly involved in the international fight against terrorism and the prevention of international crimes, including terrorist offences. What exactly are the details of the work, including the details of the work of the security authorities, I suggest, however, that you ask the people who do this work every day. However, with regard to more general international networking, yes, we are involved in international cooperation in the prevention of terrorism.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U14	Siim Kabrits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U15	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, Estonian embassies and Estonian representations play an important role in introducing us outside Estonia. Can you give some positive examples of the work of Estonian embassies in introducing Estonia and perhaps some examples of plans for celebrating the anniversary of the Republic of Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U16	The sun goes to the creator before I finish my story when I answer that question. But perhaps some recent examples of countries where we do not have an embassy directly on the ground, where the embassy is in a neighbouring country, which may make it even more difficult to act. For example, last October there was a very extensive Estonian cultural and music event in Mexico, an introduction to Estonia organised by an embassy in a neighbouring country, Washington, in the United States. There was a great success in Arvo Pärt's work. I think that all of this together made Estonia considerably more famous in Mexico. This year we are trying to make a follow-up to this in the form of a visit by Estonian entrepreneurs to this country. A recent example is from last week when we opened the embassy in India. This was accompanied by a visit to the Estonian business delegation, in which 25 Estonian entrepreneurs participated. Hopefully, it will benefit them and all of Estonia, and it will also make Estonia more visible in India. I think that there are hundreds of cultural events organised during the year by the Estonian embassies or organised with their help, both larger and smaller. In addition, all kinds of business seminars and cooperation formats, foreign policy activities. This is the day-to-day work of all our representations. The website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as well as the homepages of the Ministry of Culture and other institutions, can easily find various activities introducing Estonia in recent times. In addition to this, of course, daily work with the so-called local influence, they are politicians, entrepreneurs, journalists, cultural figures, whoever they are. That's why we need embassies abroad to make good connections between these people from morning to evening.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U17	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U18	Thank you very much, manager. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! America is increasingly paying attention to Asia instead of Europe, as Barack Obama himself has said. How and if this also affects Estonian-American relations and what opportunities do you see for us in Asia? How does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs intend to explain the Asian programme?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U19	First of all, when it comes to editing the United States in the world, as I said in my speech, we do not see it as a zero sum game. More cooperation with, or attention being paid to, an Asian country does not automatically mean that Europe is somehow falling into the background. I certainly do not support this way of thinking, because my practice in the office of Foreign Minister has not confirmed this in any way either. If, for example, we look at the new Secretary of State of the United States, one of his first visits will be to Europe next week, where he visits quite a number of countries. Therefore, I see no cause for concern when the United States pays more attention to Asia or any other region of the world, and I do not think that this would in any way undermine European-American relations. I see a clear potential for European-American relations in the future as they are the two most natural partners in the democratic world at all. As regards Estonia's concrete steps, the creation of a network of representations, for example, is what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs can do specifically. After all, all of our new representations in recent years are open in the region, Asia: this very last example of India, a year ago the Astana embassy was opened, covering a large part of Central Asia, before the General Consulate in Shanghai was opened, in addition to the embassy in Beijing, an investment was made in the building of the Beijing embassy, etc. Of course, we would like our economic relations with these countries to be strengthened, in addition to the network of representations. At present, the share of Asian countries in Estonia's foreign trade is still very low. What the government or state can do here is to provide support in the form of these same foreign missions and business visits, as well as in the form of the avoidance of double taxation and other economic and trade agreements. But after all, their business decisions are of course made by the entrepreneurs themselves. Similarly, cooperation between universities, which is also an important aspect of India, is tourism, or people-to-people contacts. So there are a lot of things where the state can and will try to create a favourable environment as far as it can, but a specific decision and choice is ultimately made by entrepreneurs, cultural people, universities or people themselves when choosing their destination.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U20	Urmas Glass, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U21	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! Thank you very much for your thorough and intelligent speech! As Chairman of the German parliamentary group of the Riigikogu, I am very pleased that you also spoke in Germany, you called Germany a key country, especially in the Baltic Sea region. I think it's very well-founded. In light of this, of course, it is a pity that fewer and fewer materials about Germany appear in the Estonian press, but it is also very positive that the German Embassy itself is doing an effective job of introducing German language and culture in our country. My request is that you describe the bilateral relations between Estonia and Germany more closely. Where could there be closer cooperation that could benefit both our two countries and the European Union as a whole?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U22	Thank you for your question. Here I am pleased to welcome the German ambassador sitting on the balcony, who nodded at Mr. Glass's comments! Estonia's relations with Germany are, of course, very close today and, as I said in my speeches on several occasions, these relations are very important to us. Since, geographically, Germany stretches from the Baltic Sea to almost southern Europe, our interest is, of course, that in the future more attention should be paid to cooperation between the Baltic Sea countries. I can see the potential in our regional cooperation, where there are certainly opportunities to be more active. This concerns both economic cooperation and security cooperation in the Baltic Sea region. I think that our cooperation in the European Union is very close and very good. With regard to the debt crisis and the financial perspective, we have recently consulted Germany and many other good partners every day to find the best solutions. Our views fell substantially in the same direction as regards Europe's competitiveness and the ways in which the new financial perspective and the proposed changes could contribute to new and smart growth in Europe. I have also heard from somewhere that ETV, for example, is planning to send a correspondent to Berlin. It would be a pleasure if this were to happen, as it would, in turn, widen the picture of what is happening in such an important European country in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U23	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U24	Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! In your speech, you mentioned a free trade agreement between the European Union and the US. This is indeed a very important issue, which was recently also discussed in Barack Obama's most important speech of the year. Indeed, a common economic space between the European Union and the US and its integration would be extremely beneficial in the context of global competitiveness. Could you elaborate on the state of play of these negotiations and on the possible timetable?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U25	Thank you. It is so good that the subject of the EU-US free trade agreement has been touched upon in a number of important speeches of the year. Hopefully it'll work out soon enough. The situation is that both the United States and the European Union have expressed very clearly their will to draw up and conclude this agreement. Both see this as a new potential both for economic growth and simply in terms of strengthening relations. It's a prep, yeah, it's on. How long the whole process could take, it's somewhat unpredictable. We have seen here, on the part of the European Union, in various other free trade agreements, that the processes have not moved as quickly as they are desired. There are 27 countries in the European Union, and soon there are 28, and each has its own interests in different groups of goods. So all such talks definitely take time. And if we look at the US economy, their external trade and economic growth links, a large part of the United States' economic growth so far has been based on the internal market. The fact that a large EU internal market of 500 million could be a free trade partner is certainly a new situation for the United States. It is important to start these talks vigorously, but they will come to an end. The timetable is currently difficult to determine, as this agreement still talks about very specific matters, very specific groups of goods, tariffs. We hope that the understanding that this is a very logical development in today's economic space will also contribute to the pace.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U26	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U27	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Thank you very much for your good review, too. In my question, I will use part of your sentence, which reads: 'It is still important to support the settlement of the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict. ' Since you have taken up this area, I ask what the European Union is going to do and how it is going to do to thaw the so-called frozen conflict, and what could be Estonia's participation and contribution in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U28	In many respects, this begins with the way Armenia and Azerbaijan themselves see the need for international support or also for changes in mediation. As we know, this issue has been dealt with for many years by the so-called Minsk Group, where various parties are represented, and the European Union is playing its role, as far as it is, in finding a solution to a particular conflict through the Minsk Group. Should the European Union take on some kind of greater role, try to mediate parties, propose solutions? I think it is important here how Armenia and Azerbaijan themselves see this international mediation and whether they want it. The European Union is certainly open to discussing these matters, because it is our clear interest that there are no such points of tension or conflict in our immediate neighbourhood. But, as we all know, this is a very complicated, complicated situation, where obviously no very steep turns of heel can and cannot be made. I do not think it is right to go past the existing format or Minsk group with some huge initiative, simply that any changes in international support should be addressed by the two countries themselves, and of course it should go through the Minsk group. It is clear that, apart from the European Union, there are great influences and helpers, such as the United States and Russia, which could also play an important role in resolving this conflict. So, ultimately, the answer is that the European Union is certainly ready to contribute more than it has been, but it certainly does not make sense to do so bypassing or in parallel with the mechanism that already exists. Rather, it should be discussed whether the current mechanism will or should be amended, but Armenia and Azerbaijan are certainly the most important speakers in this matter.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U29	Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U30	Thank you. Dear Minister, You emphasised human rights, which is perfectly understandable in the light of what has been achieved in the United Nations. A few years ago, we usually stressed in such debates that our close partner countries, including development aid countries, are Georgia and Ukraine. You mentioned them briefly today. But how do we view the situation there, which has now changed dramatically? Political prisoners have also emerged in these countries. Can we continue to advise these countries, speaking openly about more complex problems?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U31	Thank you. We'll try. As regards the Eastern Partnership at all, including Ukraine and Georgia, Estonia certainly does not agree in the European Union that if there are difficulties in these countries, we will throw the gun into the bush immediately. No, the European Union, and we, too, must continue to work with these countries, very frank work so that we can address problems and find solutions to them. When we talk about Ukraine, the Association Agreement is, as we know, essentially ready to be signed, but it has been prevented from doing so by the state of the rule of law in Ukraine. The aim of the Eastern Partnership Summit is, however, to reach this point in Vilnius at the end of November this year, but the prerequisite is, of course, that cooperation between the European Union and Ukraine and the state of the rule of law in Ukraine be improved. As far as Georgia is concerned, we, who for years have wanted to support Georgia and help it to become a stable democracy, have concerns about what I would call an internal power struggle. Certainly, Georgian society must first and foremost find a balance within itself, so that the President and the Government, the President and the majority of Parliament reach reasonable cooperation, which would in no way undermine Georgia's foreign policy objectives, including those of Europe and NATO. Together with our Georgian partners, we will continue all projects aimed at reforming Georgia. Georgia remains a very important partner for us, but, as I said, it is our clear wish that internal policy can act in a country-manly manner, so that the conflict between the two branches of power does not undermine Georgia's perspective and slow down the achievement of the objectives set both for the European Union and NATO.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U32	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U33	Thank you to the waitress for an interesting external policy review. Particularly impressive was the waitress's large reading ♪ Vergilius, Shakespeare, Lord Acton, Brooks. Of course, someone from the French and German cultural space would also have been expected, as the European Union is based on the French-German axis. After all, the United Kingdom is more enfant terrible in the European Union at the moment. But more about the report. Unfortunately, one thing didn't work out. Indeed, if the Minister has been in office for more than six years, there is no match for him among the ministers of other countries. What is the longest-age foreign minister of the European Union, or the foreign policy initiative of the Estonian Foreign Minister, in the European Union? The one that could be branded 'Made in Estonia'?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U34	Thank you for your question. First of all, I wouldn't give Britain the assessment you gave. Great Britain is a very important Member State of the European Union and will continue to be so in the future. One factual point also: the Luxembourg Minister for Foreign Affairs, who is currently the longest-serving Minister of Foreign Affairs of the European Union, is currently the Luxembourg Minister for Foreign Affairs. Now about Estonia's initiatives. These initiatives have been in quite a number of areas. I would certainly point out, for example, the topic of the same coalition of Internet freedom that I have already touched on in the speech. Next year, Estonia will also lead the coalition of countries that appreciate the freedom of the Internet and wish to extend it. We also want to expand this network of countries. Then, for example, our initiative with regard to the International Criminal Court, to be taken into account for the problems in Syria and to be involved in addressing this issue. Initiatives concerning the process of enlargement of the European Union, the Eastern Partnership process. I remember two years ago we opened the Estonian Eastern Partnership Centre in Tallinn to make a practical contribution to this work. So you can find these initiatives when you look at time, looking at the future, the past, and the present.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U35	Cameron Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U36	Thank you! Dear Minister, At the beginning of your speech, you pointed out that Estonia's foreign policy is based on respect for, promotion and protection of human rights. This approach is inherent in today's advanced democracy and I welcome it. Do you see any way that the Riigikogu can do more in this area, and how do you appreciate the Riigikogu's role in this? Or, if you look at it from a different angle, could this area be more highlighted and valued through a committee or through an initiative?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U37	My brief answer to that question is yes, of course you can. This can be done in direct foreign policy action. It is very clear that there is practical value when members of the Estonian Parliament or delegations visit countries who want to learn about Estonia's experience, including the experience of strengthening human rights and the rule of law, and they also want to get reviews, etc. The Estonian Parliament can certainly be much more visible and active in countries where there is still a great interest in Estonia's experience of parliamentarianism and the rule of law. The other side is the roles that Parliament or any committee could assume in terms of human rights, including on an international scale. We have discussed these possibilities here. Yes, my view is that, for example, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, perhaps also the Committee on Legal Affairs and some others could take on human rights-related roles that have a clear international output. This would allow us to take advantage of the expertise and experience we have accumulated.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U38	Tõnis Kõiv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U39	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, First of all, I would also like to thank you for your meaningful presentation. But both the world and the Estonian public have been severely disturbed by the damage and destruction of the world's cultural heritage. Recent examples are Timbuktu Mali and the old town of Halab in Syria. In Libya, libraries have been destroyed in three cities. The statues of the Buddha that were destroyed in Afghanistan in 2001 and similar examples are from the areas of the former Yugoslavia. This shows that there is no problem here for certain groups of persons, even their aim is to deliberately destroy the world's cultural heritage. The upcoming General Assembly of the Interparliamentary Union has been proposed to call on Parliaments to classify the deliberate destruction of the world's cultural heritage as a crime against humanity, which is known to be timeless. What is your opinion on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U40	Thank you. Estonia clearly supports better protection of all unique objects belonging to the world heritage. Estonia is now known to be a member of the UNESCO World Heritage Committee. At the meeting of this committee last year in St Petersburg, we participated, for example, in the drafting of a resolution condemning the destruction of Timbuktu temples. As far as the international legal or legal environment is concerned, there is no major problem in this respect because the destruction of cultural heritage during armed conflict is already clearly enshrined as an international crime, namely a war crime. So when we look at the International Criminal Code, it should be enough to bring the offenders and destroyers to account. The personal question is how these investigations are conducted and those who are responsible are followed. As regards Mali and the destruction in Timbuktu, the Prosecutor General of the International Criminal Court has now initiated an investigation into this. Protecting cultural heritage is primarily a national responsibility and the International Criminal Court will intervene only if the state itself does not want to prosecute the offenders. In addition, the criminal court needs a legal basis for intervention. On Mali, for example, the UN Security Council has recently adopted Resolution 2085, which strongly condemns the destruction of cultural and religious sites. So, in short, these things are already being treated as an international crime, a war crime. In the international judicial area, we do not see very large gaps. It is rather a question of the will and ability of individual countries to track down the perpetrators and then either bring them to justice themselves or refer them to the International Criminal Court.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U41	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U42	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, At the end of your speech you said that foreign policy is valuable and pragmatic in the service of the people of Estonia. What is the government's view of how foreign policy combines value and pragmatism, what is the relationship between the two?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U43	Kalev Kallo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U44	For me, they overlap in many, in most cases, basically. I think it is in the interests of a country like Estonia, in the pragmatic interests, that this space of values to which we belong is guaranteed as well as possible, and that we take our foreign policy and domestic policy decisions on this basis. So if you're asking about their relationship, I think this ratio is really close to 100% in terms of overlap.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U45	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, I, too, thank you for your thorough presentation. But given that China is one of the biggest economies today, it is a little too little for me to call it an embassy. What's with the little attention? Could you clarify both the role of relations and the future intentions of economic and other affairs in the direction of China?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U46	Thank you. Unfortunately, my speech has a time limit, and that's why it's now an hour and a half, so we can talk about things that, because of a limited time, didn't fit into the introduction monologue. China is, of course, a very important partner country for Estonia, otherwise we would not have made a very large investment in the same embassy building that I spoke about in my speech. Actually, it's a lot more than just one sentence in this speech. Our embassy building in Beijing has been the only embassy building in recent years that has been built on the basis of the work that won the architectural competition from scratch. In other places, we have usually adapted ourselves to the circumstances, bought or rented existing rooms. So the attention we have already given to the completion of the Beijing embassy building shows what potential we see in our relations with China. As far as the state of our relations is concerned more broadly, relations are stable in the sense that they are quite dense in foreign policy, that much of the potential of economic relations is still unrealized. If we look at China's share of our foreign trade, it is still very small. However, practical economic and trade cooperation has not increased much in spite of the attention and action taken in recent years. Which doesn't mean it can't all change. If we watch people travel, we have grown in Beijing and Shanghai. So, step by step, these indicators and ways of communicating will improve. I very much hope that if we have more opportunities in the embassy and the various Estonian institutions can hold a permanent representation at the embassy in Beijing, it will further stimulate the development of our relations. There is no doubt that China plays an increasingly important role in the global economy and politics in the international dimension. We also see this every day, for example, in the form of decisions and editing by the UN Security Council. So my answer is that our relationships are good, pretty active, but there's still a lot of unrealized potential.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U47	Igor Gräzin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U48	Good minister! A few weeks ago, when the document on international criminal law was under discussion, the Kampala appendix, there was an idea in this very house, in these rooms, that a cyber attack should qualify as an aggression within the meaning of international law, that cyberattack is one of the types of aggression. Unfortunately, the representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said that, oh, no, it's not much, let it stay, to legalize it somewhere or write it down in any case, it's not worth it, it's such a soft thing, etc. And it happened that the idea of making a cyber-attack an aggression didn't get a majority because of a proposal from the State Department. Can you explain a little bit about the position that cyberattack doesn't represent aggressive action? Why is it irrelevant?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U49	The cyber attack is certainly not irrelevant and constitutes aggressive action. The second issue is the same international legal space, so that where a cyber attack can be defined in the most sensible way, so that it can also be useful. Unfortunately, I think that, internationally, we are still at an awareness stage of cyber security, including cyber-attack activities. For example, when we look at the international legal space, there is not much more. There is a Council of Europe Convention that deals with this issue and is open to accession to countries that are not members of the Council of Europe, but so far a very small number of the Council of Europe's own countries have joined the Convention. So as far as the international legal space is concerned, I think we should be very much concerned with awareness, plus, of course, practical action, which in our example is clearly carried out by the NATO Cyber Defence Centre right here in Tallinn. Our wish is for the countries to join directly and send their experts here. I think the problem now is not so much whether we see a cyber attack as a risk and a threat. Yes, of course we will, and I handled it in my speech. It is rather a question of the place, timing and the right place for the international legal space to deal with it, so that it can find sufficient support and does not produce the opposite effect. As we know, it often takes time for people to enter, understand and think about such a new international issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U50	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, We know that very many people do not do foreign policy analysis every day. I therefore believe that it would be interesting and exciting to hear more about the statement that the countries that have been in the shadows of the world are starting to speak with them and that Estonia must take this into account. Are there any surprises among these countries? Could you expand the subject a little bit?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U52	No, no surprises. I am thinking here first of all of those countries with a very large population or very large territory. Many countries that have not yet realised their potential in recent decades may not have considered it important or have been mainly engaged in their internal lives, have now increasingly started to realise their size, strength and capabilities in international life as well. I am thinking of countries such as India, Brazil, South Africa, Indonesia, etc. They have always had the opportunity to participate actively in international life and influence relations because of their size, strength and ability, but for one reason or another they have not done so before. Now they do, and we have to take that into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U53	Tiina Lock-Tramberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U54	Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs, for a good speech. During your reign, the two-way movement on the lines of Ukraine, Belarus, Georgia, Armenia, Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan, which from the point of view of the European Union, security, the economy or whatever it is, has been greatly intensified. But there's another dark place. When we talk about the countries in the shadows and their possible role, do you not know if we have any plans in relation to Turkmenistan and a slightly softer version of Uzbekistan and Kyrgyzstan?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U55	As I mentioned in the speech, we should pay more attention to developments in Central Asian countries and opportunities to cooperate with them, both in Estonia and in the European Union as a whole. This was also one of the reasons why, for example, a year ago, in Central Asia, we opened an embassy in Astana, the capital of Kazakhstan, which also deals with Turkmenistan. Yeah, not with Uzbekistan. The Prime Minister visited quite recently in both countries with entrepreneurs, and a few framework agreements for economic cooperation have been signed. So there has been something about this in recent years. But the truth is that, if we look at Afghanistan's development from a security perspective, which will take place after 2014, the countries you mentioned will have a role to play in contributing to security and stability. If we look at the same economic potential, including the fact that this region is relatively close to the European Union, let us mention, for example, the energy carriers, their importance and their strategic importance, then yes, I would say that the European Union should, however, engage significantly more in and deal with these countries. So for the coming years, I predict that Estonia will certainly want to strengthen relations with these countries as well, and we would also like to expand our development cooperation activities to Central Asia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U56	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U57	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs, for your presentation. One of the areas that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is actively engaged in and which must be dealt with is attracting investments to the country and introducing Estonia as a good place to invest. But the second issue is that, as I have read, the citizens of our country, who have invested in foreign countries, are in trouble in certain countries because their investments are not protected. Minister, how much have you had to deal with such issues and do you have any good example where you have been able to protect investments?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U58	From time to time, there are still concerns that businesses are having problems with what is happening in their country of residence and with their investments. Unfortunately, Ukraine has stood out in this regard in recent years. As we all know, this is not just Estonia's problem; it is also the problem of many other countries, including the countries of the European Union, whose entrepreneurs are not satisfied with the investment situation in that country. These cases, which have been heard by the public in Estonia, maybe I would call them the most complicated and unpleasant, and it is also very difficult to solve them. There are examples of other countries where such cases have also been resolved by our embassy or state intervention. We have been able to help to resolve these problems. More broadly, this is also why we want, for example, to conclude more investment protection agreements with different countries. Unfortunately, the example of Ukraine is that there are agreements with this country, but there are still problems. Unfortunately, therefore, it cannot be said that the existence of an investment protection agreement guarantees 100% that there are no problems at all. Yes, we will continue to deal with this and, of course, we will also continue to deal with it in cooperation with the European Union's partners. Because, as I said, the general pattern is that if problems arise in a country with foreign investment, they are not country-specific in that sense, that problems are only problems with Estonian or Estonian entrepreneurs, but there are still some broader concerns that affect all or most of the foreign entrepreneurs that invested in that country.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U59	Kalle Laane, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U60	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I come to the last paragraph of your speech, where you said that foreign policy is at the service of the people, both on a value-based and pragmatic basis, because security, human rights and the stability of the economic environment are our fundamental interests. I dare say that this is the case, because my personal experience in recent times with the Foreign Affairs Department officials and the Minister of Foreign Affairs certainly confirms that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has really taken several steps forward in this direction. But as we know, Estonia is a compact state and its resources are limited and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and our country have largely focused their eyes on the outside. At the same time, we certainly need additional opportunities and capabilities. Have you thought in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and in the government that you could reduce your presence in Europe in some form or form and channel your resources outside?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U61	As far as the network of agencies is concerned, I guess we've been thinking about it and analyzing it. Sad as it may be, we closed down an embassy in one of the countries of the European Union last year. We've made changes, we have to keep up with the times. But a priori to say that what is now very important to us is all that is outside Europe, and Europe is no longer important; it certainly cannot. For example, consider three groups of reasons why there should be a diplomatic mission in one country or another. There are foreign policy reasons, i.e. the influence of foreign policy cooperation linked to our security issues etc., secondly, our economic interests, the economic interests of our businesses, foreign trade, and the third group is consular protection, or helping Estonian citizens in this country. If we look at our relations in today's Europe, our most important foreign policy and also security policy environment remains the countries of Europe, NATO and the European Union. And if it is believed that there is nothing more to be done in the capitals there, that everything will be decided in Brussels, then that is not the case. Countries shape their decisions, still make their choices in their capital. As far as the external economy is concerned, 70% of Estonia's external trade is trade with other countries of the European Union. Similarly, most people in Estonia who go abroad and travel abroad do so in Europe. If you also look at consular cases, problems, most of them have emerged in Europe. So there is nothing to say about this: communication with the countries of the European Union at capital level remains important, given all three groups of reasons. As far as possible, I would not develop our better representation and capabilities in the rest of the world at the expense of Europe. But as I said, this time is rapidly changing. If we really find that in one country or another we can manage in another way, it is certainly possible too, but it must be very clearly local or case-by-case, not just so that we are going to reduce our presence in Europe massively in order to be represented somewhere potentially interesting. After all, we want to continue to increase our representation outside Europe. As I mentioned, last week we opened an embassy in India and it is now planned to send a diplomat to the Portuguese embassy in Brazil to begin preparations for our presence in Brazil.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U62	Vladimir Velman, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U63	Thank you very much, Mr President. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! For a limited period of time, you've presented a pretty interesting report. Here's the question. Political rhetoric is quite often used in illusions. It is the Arab Spring, for example, after the Arab Summer, the Arab Autumn, the Arab Winter, and no one will be interested in it any more. My question concerns one country, which was still a few years ago at the centre of world interest, and this is Iraq. Are the current developments in Iraq meeting the expectations that were at the beginning of the Iraqi occupation?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U64	First of all, the Arab world is increasingly not calling itself what is happening there, not for the Arab Spring, but for awakening, which in a sense is perhaps even more accurate. Indeed, this parallel with the seasons, I cannot imagine what the Arab winter should mean, for example, and whether we want it. So many terms. As far as Iraq is concerned, it is not satisfied with developments there. The developments in Iraq are still very worrying at the moment. When we look at the last few weeks, including the last few months, violence has grown again very sharply, internal conflicts and political instability have increased. Of course, the big ball is still in Iraq's possession to find new points of balance and to conclude agreements to reduce violence and stabilise the country, but the international community must also pay more attention to it and contribute to finding these balances. At the same time, it is clear when we look at the wider region, that there are already many places where the international community must and will do something. Of course, at the end of the day, the question is how much energy and resources will continue. But again, the impact of Iraq and the impact that is taking place there are, in any case, far beyond the borders of that country. If violence continues to spread there and instability increases, then nothing good will happen to anyone. The short answer is that the current developments in Iraq cannot be satisfied.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U65	Mart Meri, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U66	Thank you. Good minister! The guiding motive for your presentation was that foreign policy is at the service of the people. This brings back value and pragmatism immediately. There are enough people in Estonia who are worried about the situation of Finno-Ugric peoples in Russia or who are sympathetic to Tibet, for example. How, then, does the more pragmatic side of our foreign policy take into account the interests of these Estonian people?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U67	Thank you. As I said, these two words do not have to conflict, and they generally do not. As far as the situation of indigenous peoples is concerned, as I mentioned in my speech, the situation of indigenous peoples is one of the main issues that we want to address clearly during our time in the UN Human Rights Council. They are certainly often very emotional issues, unfortunately also tragic, but in order to change the situation, so that the lives of those people who, fortunately, are hurting the heart here in Estonia will actually be better, you must work in these formats in today's world, in those environments where this is possible and where it will hopefully produce positive results. One of them is clearly the same UN, including the UN Human Rights Council, which is still accepted by all UN Member States. So yes, one of our main issues, being a member of the UN Human Rights Council, is also indigenous peoples and their situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U68	Minister, thank you very much for your presentation and your answers. I now ask Marko Mihkelson, Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U69	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Minister of Foreign Affairs! Ladies and gentlemen, This foreign policy debate in the plenary session of the Riigikogu coincides with the celebration of the 95th anniversary of the Republic of Estonia. In a small country, it is an awe - inspiring age. Our own history has taught us how important diplomacy is played in the history of an independent state and the continued allied relationship with friends. In 1918, the world was stunned by the consequences of the great war. The global political map has undergone a major change. Many new countries were included in international relations, including the Republic of Estonia. Unfortunately, however, the shock of World War I was not so strong that it would force European countries to work together to share sovereignty. Political developments in Germany and Russia soon pushed the continent into dangerous confrontations, which resulted in a major disaster. The world order that was formed at the end of World War II has stood in many ways until now, and neither the collapse of the Soviet Union nor the uprising of Asia have shaken it. However, in the present world, there are very many question marks that, with the increasing density of the network, force countries to strengthen existing and new forms of cooperation. Anne-Marie Slaughter, former political planner of the U.S. Department of Foreign Affairs at Princeton University, stresses that the world of the 21st century is intertwined, and therefore it is no longer only classic national movements and attractions necessary to prevent conflicts. Slaughter has metaphorically called it the world of pool ball and emphasised that we have moved from a world where there were a limited number of players in the international system to a world where there are countless combinations at once. Everything is networked: diplomacy, war, business, media, society and even religion. The proliferation of world centres of influence through countries, various international organisations, large corporations, the media, non-governmental organisations, religious sects and even families has added such dynamics to international relations, especially in the last decade, and created such a cross-relational network that conventional diplomacy alone can no longer function well. I may be wrong, but President Lennart Meri would probably have talked about the necessity of our foreign policy multitasking in the era of smart technology. I mean that, with limited resources, it is the networked world that also offers a small country the opportunity to increase its visibility more widely and to serve its interests better. This requires a well-coordinated system of continuously fresh ideas and foreign policy promoters. Estonia certainly still has room for improvement here. How do ideas and political attitudes now reach our foreign policy? Ideally, the fusion of Estonia's foreign policy priorities and activities could be formed by party programmes and thematic policy papers, opinion stories in the media, analysis of think tanks, international cooperation and response, and, finally, the day-to-day targeted activities of foreign policy promoters. The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu consistently contributes to our foreign policy debates and activities through the continuous monitoring of reports, recommendations and the government's foreign policy activities. Let us give an example of the Asian strategy report published last spring and an analysis of the Estonian network of foreign representations with recommendations to the government. The contribution of the Committee on Foreign Affairs is also clearly felt in the discussions that have recently been held on the Estonian-Russian border. In Estonia, it has been a practice recently to complain about the Riigikogu that its work lacks involvement and, in particular, hearing ideas and proposals from the third sector. I would like to point out that the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu emphasised already in 2003 the importance of the involvement of NGOs in enriching foreign policy debate. Thus, over the years, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has engaged our think tank analysts in various discussions and has listened to their recommendations. The most recent 65-page report by the International Centre for Defence Studies on the security prospects for the Baltic Sea region up to 2020 was presented at a seminar organised by Toompea on 15 November last year. All the results of the analyses ordered so far are also available on our website. Estonia's foreign policy think tanks are certainly much better off now than they were ten years ago. Hopefully, the Estonian Institute of Foreign Policy will also overcome its difficulties and be better able to integrate into the provision of foreign policy inputs that foreign policy practitioners constantly need to screen their thoughts. In a networked world, Estonian foreign policy can be successful and determined if different models of cooperation can be maintained at the level of executive power, while involving private and third sectors. For example, in order to promote foreign trade, a more united and thoughtful contribution from the government is essential. Part of the question also goes away from the much-spoken value-based foreign policy in the ongoing debate and how to promote it in a way that we do not harm the interests of our country if we remain true to our principles. The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu intends to focus on a deeper analysis of this topic in the spring ahead. Of course, the world is not graspable on the basis of one formula or ideology, but it often helps to make the best choices by remembering three key words. Those words are wisdom, dignity, and respect. It is always important to think that reckless words or actions can make even the most solid principles hollow. There is especially little room for error in a small country like us. Ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to come to some of the most important issues with which the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu has been in closer contact over the last year. I will start this time with relations with Russia, including the border consultations launched last autumn. Good neighbourly relations with all its neighbours, including Russia, are clearly important to Estonia. The various coalition governments have been working towards this since 1991. Understandably, relations with Russia in particular are very multi-level and often stuck in the ideas that today's politicians and diplomats find difficult, if not impossible, to change in the short term. Therefore, Estonia's relations with Russia must also be seen as a set of long-term goals in which what has been achieved in the short term must serve the strategic objective of establishing mutually respectful and good neighbourly relations. Last year, Russia signalled at the official level that it was interested in finding a way out of the diplomatic deadlock in 2005. Estonia replied with its willingness to hold consultations with a view to finalising the border agreements. I recall that border negotiations with Russia have already ended in 1996 and since then both land and sea border agreements have been waiting for enforcement. Following Estonia's accession to the European Union and NATO, the agreements finally reached the signatures of the Foreign Ministers in May 2005. What happened next is well known to everyone. The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu last year worked to relaunch the parliamentary dialogue with Russian colleagues. In July a meeting took place with a delegation from the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Upper House of the Russian Parliament in South Estonia and Pihkva, and in November Mikhail Margelov, Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Upper House of the Russian Parliament, visited Tallinn. This spring, it is expected that in April, a delegation from the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs will visit Moscow. The last time the delegation of the Riigikogu's Foreign Affairs Committee visited the Russian capital in April 2004, shortly before our accession to the European Union. Last year, the Committee on Foreign Affairs discussed the state of play of bilateral relations between Estonia and Russia at several of its meetings and decided in October, with the agreement of all political forces represented in the Riigikogu, to recommend to the government the adoption of Russia's proposal to start border consultations. In doing so, the government was given a very clear mandate: the proposal is based on the fact that Estonia wishes to develop relations that respect each other's sovereignty and legal continuity with all its neighbouring countries, including Russia. In other words, the final enforcement of border agreements must not compromise the principle of legal continuity in Estonia in any way. The Committee on Foreign Affairs considers that the enforcement of border agreements is in the interests of the Estonian state, but it cannot be done under any circumstances. This is also reflected in the mandate given by the Riigikogu to consult the government. Ladies and gentlemen, The continuous development of relations between Estonia and its closest neighbours and allies is a key priority for the external relations of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. For this purpose, a number of cooperation formats have developed over the years, such as regular meetings of the presidents of the Nordic and Baltic Foreign Affairs Committees and delegations of the Baltic Parliamentary Foreign Affairs Committees. In addition, it is good practice for the Riigikogu to discuss current issues separately with Finnish colleagues every year. In addition, the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs also wishes to promote more regular cooperation with Polish colleagues, for example, because Poland is a very important partner for Estonia in both the European Union and NATO. At EU level, there was a significant change last year in the involvement of national parliaments in the European debate on the common foreign and security policy. Instead of the so far well-functioning meetings of the presidents of the Foreign Affairs Committees, a conference of delegations of the Parliaments' Foreign Affairs and Defence Committees has been launched with reference to the Treaty of Lisbon. According to Estonia, it is important not to focus on quantity, but above all on quality. Experience has shown that the work of oversized fora is often scattered and does not lead to goals. I hope that the meeting that will take place in the coming month under the Irish Presidency will give more insight into the direction in which parliamentary cooperation is taking place. Within the framework of bilateral parliamentary relations, the Committee on Foreign Affairs had the most important visit to the United States last year, where meetings took place in Silicon Valley and Washington. During our visit, we focused on getting to know the questions of the Estonian diaspora, the breakthrough opportunities of Estonian companies in the USA and the promotion of bilateral relations. Estonia's relations with the United States are very well-off, especially in the area of security policy. According to the Commission, Estonia should contribute more to the expansion of bilateral trade relations. The long-awaited start of free trade talks between the European Union and the US will in turn provide a good impetus for this. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu has focused its work on various topical issues that are important for our foreign and security policy objectives. Last year, the issue of the Asia Strategy was addressed by drawing up the relevant report and making recommendations to the government. We also discussed them last spring at the plenary session of the Riigikogu. The importance of Asian countries in the global economy and politics is a rapidly growing trend, which is why the Committee on Foreign Affairs will actively continue to look at the issues addressed in the report in greater depth from the point of view of Estonia's interests. For example, next week, the state of play in teaching Asian languages and cultures and the prospects for Estonian general education and higher education institutions will be on our agenda. The hearing will take place with the Committee on Culture. In planning, the visit of the delegation of the Riigikogu's Foreign Affairs Committee to Singapore and Indonesia is mainly focused on expanding political contacts and promoting foreign trade relations. I am pleased to note that the Asian programme approved by the Government of the Republic in November last year is actually taking the form of concrete pilot projects. It should be borne in mind that Estonia's limited resources in the Asian direction can only be successfully exploited if there is as much consensus and purpose in this area as possible at the level of both decision-makers and promoters. The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu will also continue discussions on the development of the Estonian network of foreign representations in the current year. The long-awaited opening of the Estonian Embassy in India last week is an important step towards promoting bilateral relations with one of the most important countries in Asia. At the suggestion of the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs, the opening of new offices should take particular account of existing resources and longer-term foreign policy objectives. It would therefore be very timely to carry out a proper audit of the activities of our representations, particularly in view of the changes that have taken place in connection with our accession to the European Union in 2004. Last autumn, the Committee on Foreign Affairs began its hearings with a view to clarifying the prospects for the security environment around the Baltic Sea until 2020. As I have already mentioned, the Riigikogu ordered an analysis for this purpose from the International Centre for Defence Studies. Both the promotion of security cooperation between countries in the region and the transfer of security trends with a more global impact in our immediate vicinity are under review. The aim of the hearings is to make recommendations to the government on the basis of the information gathered, in which directions Estonia could be more active in regional security policy. For example, the Committee on Foreign Affairs intends to make it more clear what activities Estonia could have in order to deepen its knowledge as well as the opportunities to participate in Arctic issues. This is a matter of rapid importance, which has primarily economic significance for Estonia in relation to the North Sea route opened as a result of climate change. Further this spring, the Committee on Foreign Affairs intends to carry out an interim analysis of the implementation of the provisions of Estonian security policy as approved by the Riigikogu in May 2010. Ladies and gentlemen, Parliamentary diplomacy of the Riigikogu is, of course, not limited to the activities of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Chairman of the Parliament. External delegations working in various international parliamentary assemblies play a very important role. Last month, the Committee on Foreign Affairs analysed the work of delegations last year and found that Estonia's visibility due to the active contribution of ambassadors is still higher than we may have enough resources for all the activities we want. I would like to specifically highlight the work of Andres Herkel, Mailis Reps and Indrek Saare in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the activities of Sven Mikser and Mati Raidma in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. All of them have taken on a great deal of responsibility in the organisation of these assemblies. Friendship groups play an important role in the development of bilateral parliamentary relations. To date, members of the Riigikogu have formed 50 groups of friends on a voluntary basis. In order to coordinate their activities and best allocate the available budgetary resource, the Riigikogu Committee on Foreign Affairs has launched a round table meeting during each session. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U70	Good waitress, thank you very much. You have questions too. Mart Nutt, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U71	Honourable waitress! I would like to come to the question of consistency. So far, Russia has recognised its continuity with the Soviet Union in a relatively selective way. He has acknowledged this in terms of international agreements, but this has not been included in Tartu's peace, for example, selectively. With regard to the crimes against humanity and aggressive foreign policy of the Soviet Union, he has not admitted it at all. For Estonia, on the other hand, continuity means continuity with a country that lost its independence in 1940. In the current situation, do the Estonian and Russian sides understand continuity in the same way?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U72	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U73	Good Mart, I think your question reflected the complexity of the whole problem. In my presentation, I touched on this issue, first and foremost, with regard to the mandate of the Riigikogu for border consultations given to the government. I believe that the position here is clear from our point of view and from Estonia's point of view. The question is in the current context. When we talk about the consultations that the government, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is holding with the Russian side, our position is sufficiently understandable. It is clear that this process should not interfere with our principle of legal continuity in one way or another. As we know, these consultations are only halfway through, and I certainly do not want to speculate on when or in what way these talks could produce a result. The Committee on Foreign Affairs will keep a very close eye on the whole process, and if the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has information on the progress of the consultations, it will certainly thoroughly analyse it and listen to the parties concerned, bearing in mind the mandate that the Riigikogu gave to the government through the representatives of all the political groups last October.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U74	Dear waitress, The Foreign Minister's speech said that there are a number of large and powerful countries in the world that have not been very active in foreign policy, but are now pushing out of the shadows, and Estonia must take this into account. My question, however, is this. If you are a small country, there are few resources, but in general you are doing well nonetheless, is it possible to formulate what is the key to the success of a small country in our ever-changing world? Do you understand my question?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U75	Thank you, Urve! I was trying to understand. Well, beauty is still in the eyes of the viewer, and as I said in my report, there is certainly no one formula to judge the world or conquer the world. On your question, you referred to the statement in the Minister's speech that there are countries that seem to be pushing out of the shadows. As a historian, I would say that these shadows may not often be long. How often has it been said recently about China's determined development of its economy in the last 30 years, and now it is undoubtedly gaining a growing political influence in the world. But it should actually be borne in mind that over the last 2,000 years, the same China has been the world's first power for 1,600 years, politically and economically. So much depends on how long we mean when we talk about getting out of the shadows. Undoubtedly, the present world is much more difficult to perceive because there are so many centres of influence. The key you're looking for lies, in my opinion, in one of our very clear knowledge. We know very well what it is to lose freedom to a country, as we tragically experienced in the last century. But we also know perfectly well what it means to regain freedom and what it means to have very good allies and partners. I think it is precisely the fact that there has never been a situation in Estonia's history where we have so many good friends, good allies and strong neighbours, is certainly a value that is at the heart of Estonia's foreign policy. This has been one of our priorities and will certainly remain so in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U76	Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U77	Thank you very much, honourable waitress, for a meaningful presentation. We were talking about the complexity of foreign policy, which is why my question and perhaps the recommendation to prepare this report next year. Could the contribution of other committees, such as the National Defence Committee, to foreign policy be added? We know that other committees also go on foreign visits and play a role in shaping foreign policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U78	Other committees, too, not just the National Defence Commission? That's a good question! Of course, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu is also set by law to coordinate the external relations of the Riigikogu and, as I mentioned in the report, we will, of course, follow closely how our external delegations operate, which topics, which problems are raised in friendship groups. Perhaps to a lesser extent, we are monitoring the external relations of the committees. This may have been a little less than compared to the work of these delegations or, for example, the Committee on European Union Affairs or the Committee on National Defence. However, I call on good colleagues from other committees from this platform to communicate primarily with our neighbours, but certainly also at European Union level to discuss different problems. Unfortunately, there is a certain limit to all this external communication, which is set by our resources. They must be shared very wisely and made decisions based on them. In my opinion, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu has also been quite a good helper to our other committees in this regard, helping to plan one or the other foreign visit.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U79	Laine Randjärv, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U80	Dear colleague Marko! You have been involved in parliamentary work for a very long time and have been part of various delegations. In Europe, there are, I would not say, tsunamis or clans, but sets such as the Mediterranean countries, which stick together on their own. Large countries are saving, and the Baltic Sea countries are also saving. How do you assess how cooperation between, for example, the Baltic Sea countries and its prestige have changed since many years ago? In the past, the association of countries along the Mediterranean preceded, and it was they who spoke with a loud voice and made their demands. How do you think this balance has changed?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U81	Thank you, Laine, for this question. You can answer that for a very long time, but I wouldn't abuse your time. I would say that the changes that Estonia has seen as a country of the European Union in the last almost nine years can be seen with an eye. Despite the continuing problems in the euro area both in terms of debt and in other areas, and the numerous domestic problems in the Member States, I feel that the overall direction is the right one. The unity and strength of the European Union is, in fact, the guarantee that will help one country, be it in the south, north, west or east, out of the difficulties that plague it. I am very pleased to note that relations are good in our immediate neighbourhood, in our neighbouring North and south. Baltic-Nordic cooperation has become increasingly dense and multifaceted over the years. In my speech, I touched on a subject such as security and defence issues, which, perhaps years ago, were not so easy to deal with in our relations with Finland, Sweden or another Nordic neighbour. Surely this is a changing process. At the moment, I am really pleased to say, in the light of my experience, that one of the best formats that works in Europe at the level of Parliament's foreign committees or at the level of the chairmen of the Committee on Foreign Affairs is precisely cooperation between the eight countries in the North and the Baltic. This spring or early summer, we are planning to visit the United States together during the rotating Danish Presidency and introduce a common foreign policy vision for our region there.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U82	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U83	Good waitress! There was a rather bold thought, which has not been said very much: that in a changing world we need to review the content of the work of our diplomatic representations. Could this mean that we are really starting to think more about processes when deciding on our foreign missions? Let me give you an example. The military attaché in Norway is intended to be wound up unless it has already been liquidated. Allegedly, he's not needed there. And the role of our economic diplomats in Ukraine, Kazakhstan and even in this direction is modest. Perhaps there should be more economic diplomats elsewhere in Europe. Does this brave statement of yours mean that we will be more supportive of the Estonian economy and such specific security in our diplomatic activities and less along the parquet, just beautiful?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U84	I see several aspects of this question and try to answer. Foreign economic policy has been a natural part of Estonia's foreign policy since our regaining independence in 1991. Perhaps at some point it has been a little more hidden, for example when it was extremely important for us to join the European Union and NATO to ensure our security. However, as I emphasised in my speech, the Committee on Foreign Affairs has actually done quite a lot in this area in recent years. As is well known in the Estonian government, there is no Minister for Foreign Trade; we do not have such a Ministry; these activities are divided between different authorities. Seeing the processes that have taken place in recent years, it can be argued that there has been significantly more joint action to create synergies. A good example is the Asian programme of the government approved in November, in which, of course, the promotion of economic relations with these countries is the main focus, involving very specific aid programmes also by Estonia. Your question also concerned Estonia's foreign representations and their development. The same theme has arisen here: where our foreign representations are, what our resources are, how much we can contribute to the so-called quantity of these representations I mean the number of representations. If we count all foreign missions, including those of international organisations and bilateral embassies, we'll meet at about 50. I think it is quite difficult for a country like Estonia to move forward and increase this number. That is why the Committee on Foreign Affairs has also stressed that our committee, as well as the government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, should analyse the work of existing embassies. We should look at their actions, their involvement in our foreign policy objectives, including foreign economic policy. This, of course, also applies to those people who work at embassies and other diplomats. The Committee on Foreign Affairs has a good tradition that every year we look at the development of a national representation network at least once and discuss how the government meets or sets these goals. As I said, last year we also conducted a more in-depth hearing and analysis, and our recommendations to the government are currently on the table. We have received the first answers, but on individual issues we will definitely continue to work.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U85	Marianne Mikko, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U86	Thank you for this fine presentation. You touched the Asian direction in your presentation, as did the Foreign Minister in his presentation. It is true that we have reason to be proud that the Committee on Foreign Affairs has taken a very good initiative in this regard. The report, which was presented here, was indeed excellent. But here's the question. The Foreign Minister said that last week the Indian embassy opened and that a quarter of a hundred businessmen were present. Question to you: should there have been a representative of our house, or the Riigikogu, such as the Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee or the head of the Estonian-India Friendship Group?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U87	Thank you, Marianne. Can't get anywhere. It is true that opening embassies is not a daily thing for us, much less an embassy opening in India, which I think is very symbolic. The opening of the embassy in India has long been planned, and the work for it lasted a long time. Personally, I was in India last spring, when our handler there had just begun preparations for opening the embassy. This moment itself, when the embassy is opened, is, of course, very festive, ceremonial, but in my opinion, participation in ceremonies is not essential in the activities of the Riigikogu, but really contributes to the expansion of contacts both at parliamentary level and in other areas of life, including foreign economic matters. I can say in a small secret that the visit to Asia by the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu scheduled for spring is expected to involve the opening of our Consulate of Honor in Jakarta, Indonesia. This is one way to fill the gap you pointed out in your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U88	Good waitress, thank you very much for your presentation. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Enn Eesmaa, representative of the Estonian Central Party, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U89	Ladies and gentlemen and guests! There are many important issues in Estonian foreign policy, most of which have already been mentioned today. In this abundance of topics, it is very important to define Estonia's foreign policy priorities precisely. After all, our resources are not just limited, but scarce. In the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we have tried not only to develop these issues through debate and analysis, but also often to raise them. Today I want to touch on a matter of national importance for Estonia, which is becoming a problem. We're talking about our aspirations and ambitions at the UN. As we know, we have achieved a lot there. Last year Estonia was quite successful at the UN. Estonia was elected to the Human Rights Council; we fulfilled the duties of the UN Children's Fund and the Vice-President of the United Nations Agency for the Promotion of Women's Rights. The representatives of Estonia were active in the Executive Council of the UN Development Fund and the UN Population Fund as well as in the Committee on Women's Status, as well as in the work of the Expert Group of the Forum on Indigenous Peoples. It is difficult to overstate Tiina Intelmann's role as President of the Assembly of the Member States of the International Criminal Court. In the beginning, the argument that sounded like a theory takes on more practical meaning that what is important to the UN is also important to Estonia and vice versa. Now there is a debate about what is important to Estonia in the future development of the UN and what is less important. We are talking about Estonia's candidacy as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council. Perhaps the issue would not be so important to us if the arguing parties in online chat rooms were not chronic hysterics, but prominent national levels and their honourable representatives. Some believe that Estonia must do everything in its power to achieve the position of non-permanent member of the Security Council. A lot has been done for that in a few years. The list of countries that are known to support us is quite long. Estonia's activity in talking about important issues in the world has increased. We have increasingly dealt with the rule of law, the concept of defence obligations, the protection of civilians, the freedom and responsibility of the Internet and the punitive nature of crimes against humanity. We have consistently spoken on the development of women's rights and on humanitarian aid and child protection. We have provided resources to those in need, and we stand out positively in our regional group, the Eastern European group, above all because, despite difficult economic conditions, Estonia has been able to fulfil its promises and maintain the noble image of the donor. For this reason, we have received praise for the participation of Estonian officers in the UN peacekeeping mission in Syria. Estonia has expressed constructive thoughts on the issue of the UN's excessive administrative costs and has been among those countries that believe that the UN should significantly improve its activities. All of this is necessary, especially in view of the fact that, when acting as a non-permanent member of the Security Council, the working country is not just Europe or the US, but the whole planet with its concerns, which do not seem to end. Those who doubt the need for the status of a non-permanent member of the Security Council justify the financial appreciation of ambition when human resources are allocated in the interests of a project which, in the eyes of most nations in the world, makes little sense. No one will notice the results and efforts that will prove too expensive for Estonia. I also think, and in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, that the debate that was born could be developed at our meetings in order to hopefully reach a common understanding as to whether the status of a non-permanent member of the Security Council and the obligation and responsibility it entails could be a major objective for us in the coming years to work towards. Or is the time for setting 'big targets' slowly coming to an end, and what is more important than sprinting is the long-distance runner's way of thinking that we should move together with other countries that think the same way at a consistent moderate pace towards shorter-term and pragmatic staged goals? The need for this debate is also underlined by the fact that discussions on the future of the United Nations Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) have intensified in order to cover the needs of sustainable development in the United Nations bodies. Let us not forget that Estonia is applying for ECOSOC's decision-making powers for the years 2015 to 2017. My personal opinion is more intriguing. Once we are in the United Nations, we must act there, say our thoughts and defend them, and if we can, offer them to other countries and nations. 2013 will give us more than enough opportunities to operate in the UN. The main topics of the world organisation are security, sustainable development, human rights and the development of democracy, in which Estonia will certainly have its say and the opportunity to confirm our positions with action. In the case of topics of particular importance to Estonia, it is important not only to keep active so far, but to try to apply new elements of activity in more depth in priority areas, bearing in mind the key words: visibility, co-operation and contribution in today's world. For one NATO and a country of the European Union, there has been plenty of work done at international and domestic level, for example in inter-ministerial cooperation. Much more could be said of the UN to the public using different channels. This could be done by experts who are in Estonia, but unfortunately little is known. The representatives of Estonia must certainly continue to give speeches and take advantage of the UN's various possibilities. So far, given our limited human resources, we have been able to be quite active. If possible, this activity should be further enhanced, because if you are not visible in the United Nations, where are you really in today's fickle and information-tight world? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U90	Thank you. I ask Margus Hanson, representative of the Estonian Reform Party, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu! Please, eight minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U91	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister of Foreign Affairs! Ladies and gentlemen, In the broadest sense, each country's foreign policy aims to ensure the security of the country, the protection of its citizens and a functioning economic system. This is also the case in Estonia. However, on the threshold of the anniversary of the Republic and of the day of privation, it is not unnecessary to emphasise yet another main objective of Estonian foreign policy. In the broadest sense, foreign policy is an instrument for ensuring our national independence and for safeguarding national security. In more than 20 years after the restoration of independence, we have become one of the most integrated countries in the region. We have started to speak with an increasingly loud voice in the work of international organisations, to contribute more strongly to the development of these organisations. Our voice is being heard more and more. Estonia is active and reliable as a NATO Member State. For example, we have made ourselves known to our allies as spokespersons for cyber defence. The NATO Cyber Defence Centre in Tallinn is constantly expanding, increasing our visibility and our authority in the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation. Our commitment to missions, particularly in Afghanistan, the self-denial of our defence forces and the victims we carry cement our position as a reliable and fully-fledged member of the alliance. As a result of all this, our airspace will be protected and the Baltic air security will continue as an open-ended mission. I hope that Ämari airport, which will soon become fully operational, will become one of the bases for air security rotation. NATO's large-scale exercises in the Baltic Sea region are a vivid example of NATO's deterrence and despite the views of the sceptics, a strong assurance of the reliability of Article 5. Much has been said about the new course of foreign policy in the United States and the shift in attention to Asia. Of course, the location of the United States is as close to Estonia as possible to us, but paying more attention to Asia is understandable and paradoxically also in the interests of Europe. Military balance and stability in Asia and the Indian Ocean will benefit the whole of Europe, including Estonia. As a result, Europe itself must also contribute more to the security of the region. We know that only a few European countries have met the requirement that defence costs must represent 2% of GDP; Estonia is one of those few. It is in our interest to have a strong European Union that pursues a common foreign and security policy. Estonia is an active member of this Union. In our opinion, Estonia must spread its experience of implementing the economic model based on a liberal market economy and stand up for a more competitive Europe. As the country with the lowest debt burden in the European Union, it is our duty to stand unsustainable for a change in the economic model aimed at living, for the liberalisation of the economy and for the implementation of structural reforms. We support and welcome the European Union's efforts to liberalise trade relations with the United States, Japan and other countries, both in Asia and Latin America, whose economies are developing rapidly. We also hope for mutual benefit from Russia's entry into the WTO. The liberalisation of trade is in itself an important structural reform, creating new opportunities for innovation and productivity growth. However, as Estonia's share of foreign trade in the European Union is small, its impact on our economy is rather indirect: it manifests itself through the economic recovery of our main export destination countries. The Reform Party considers the recognition of human rights and personal freedoms based on liberalism to be the ideological basis of Estonian foreign policy. Estonia's foreign policy must support the development of democracy and a free market economy and respect for human rights throughout the world. It was therefore a pleasure to hear that this year the Foreign Affairs Minister's annual review of foreign policy began with the recognition that human rights and values are a cross-cutting issue for all foreign policy issues. The improvement and protection of the human rights situation has been and will continue to be a fundamental attitude and objective for Estonia. On one hand, it refers to the expansion of our foreign policy reach at UN level. Let it be noted once again that Estonia became a member of the UN Human Rights Council for the first time in history and that our diplomat leads the Assembly of the International Criminal Court. On the other hand, the emergence of human rights protection issues as our foreign policy ambition is a sign that Estonia is a country with a mature foreign policy. Alongside the issues related to national security, we can now pay ever greater attention to what is happening farther away from the dome of Munamägi. This development, in turn, should be useful in pursuing Estonia's next major foreign policy objective of becoming a temporary member of the UN Security Council. Good listeners! On the eve of the 95th anniversary of the Republic of Estonia, it is appropriate to look over your shoulder at the past times. I would like to pay tribute to all Estonian diplomats who have acted in the name of the establishment and preservation of the Estonian state, and to warmly thank those who have given their lives for Estonia. Without these people, none of us would be sitting in this room today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U92	Thank you. I ask for a representative of the Parliamentary Speech Chair of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union! Andres Herkel, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U93	Mr President, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and a little more than ten colleagues. On the threshold of the 95th anniversary of the Republic of Estonia, we can say that we are doing quite well with foreign policy. We've achieved a lot that seemed like a distant dream a few decades ago. We have achieved not only membership, but also increased authority in important international organisations, in particular NATO and the European Union. We also have an experienced and professional career diplomat frame that, fortunately, we have not politicised. We also have an active Committee on Foreign Affairs for the parliamentary state. I would say that there is more initiative for parliamentaryism in the activities of the Committee on Foreign Affairs than in any other committee here in the Riigikogu. To highlight the main problem, I think it is that the experience and greatest achievements of many foreign policy makers have matured at a time when Estonia has just proved its willingness to participate in the international arena. We often had to explain that we were not camels, that our citizenship policy, language policy and overall maturity of democracy met the best standards of international organisations. Often, they had to protect themselves from unfair attacks. It hasn't been like that in a long time. Our foreign policy does not need self-righteousness; we need more courage to be a guide. I liked the talk about value-based foreign policy and the Committee on Foreign Affairs' plan to address this issue in greater depth. In a broader view, the three major political groups at European level, the European People's Party to which IRL belongs, on whose behalf I speak now, should defend the value base at the level of joint parliamentary work, the European Liberal Association, which includes representatives of the Reform Party and the Centre Party as a friendly family, as well as the Social Democrats. These party groups, yes, have different ideologies, but in terms of human rights and democracy, they should vigorously defend the common part of European values. This is where I come to the message that I would also like to send as Chairman of the Estonian ENPA delegation. I have analysed a number of recent ENPA votes. They concerned, for example, defining the definition of political prisoners, raising the issue of democracy and human rights more sharply with regard to the Russian Federation and Azerbaijan. If we look further back, we could add issues related to the Russian-Georgia war, as well as issues related to the situation in the North Caucasus, in particular Chechnya. And my conclusion is sad because we no longer have a majority defending values in the vote on many of these issues. We are losing more and more to something that, as a euphemism, has become called caviar diplomacy. This is accompanied by a strong influence on MEPs in European countries, and, more politely, lobbying. Russia was not subject to requisition to the Council of Ministers, and the report on political prisoners in Azerbaijan was completely voted down. When I say 'we' here, I would like to stress that the Estonian ambassadors have held a value-based position with their Nordic and Baltic colleagues, as well as with representatives of Germany, Poland and other countries close to us. For example, the behaviour of the representatives of the Mediterranean countries is completely different; there is no point in talking about Russia and the Azerbaijan mentioned above, because there is no representative of the parliamentary political opposition that dares to stand up for human rights and democracy. Ukraine and Georgia are still very different countries, because there is an audible voice from the opposition. When I say 'we', I mean 'European People's Party'. Unfortunately, I often find it very difficult to understand the contrasting approach of my Spanish and Greek colleagues. The People's Party has not been united in these votes, and neither have the Liberal and Socialist Groups of Ambassadors been united on a value basis. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U94	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U95	We are increasingly faced with a situation where a democratic vote decides not to defend democracy. Indeed, there can be no universal human rights dictatorship, but there must be a value-based policy. And we have to protect it. These trends, which I mentioned in the example of ENPA, will certainly also occur at a much broader level. Therefore, the policy that we do as members of the Estonian Riigikogu must not depend on whether or not we organise a night hearing or which party is currently exercising its authority in some of the small municipalities of Estonia. We need to think big, we need to see links and defend a value-based approach at home and at European level. The chairs of our political groups regularly take part in the meetings of the leaders of the political groups of the European sister parties, and perhaps this is precisely the place where they ask their colleagues in polite form, what are the representatives of the parliaments doing in Strasbourg and why they think that everything is okay in dictatorship countries if we well know that everything is not okay at all. With this proposal, I would conclude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U96	Thank you. I ask the Chair of the Riigikogu for the Chairman of the Social Democratic Party Group Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U97	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The previous speaker brought a little passion and spice into our generally quite tedious debate, and I want to continue in the same tone. To talk about Estonia's foreign policy in five minutes about the main issues of the year that has passed and is ahead of us is quite a challenge, and therefore I will focus on just a few questions that have been addressed today, but which deserve to be over-emphasised, or have not been sufficiently touched today. At the beginning of his speech, the Foreign Minister quoted Lord Acton, saying that freedom is an opportunity not to do what we like, but to do what needs to be done. I remembered two more of those overnighting British politicians who thought about it. One of them says that there is no more destructive and immoral thinking practice than celebrating success. And the other, which also, I think, should be remembered in politics, is about that one of the permanent dark sides of democracy is the tyranny of the majority, quite rightly the tyranny of this party, who may not be the majority, but who can succeed in elections either by force or by falsehood. So much for Lord Acton's spiritual heritage, which is certainly more suitable for an internal political debate than for a foreign policy debate. Carl von Clausewitz said in his day that war is a continuation of politics by other means. By paraphrasing the founder of modern military science, I would like to say that foreign policy is a continuation of internal politics beyond the borders of my country. We are used to thinking sometimes that foreign policy people who are not interested in internal politics are some kind of freaks and erudite. However, I dare say that, in fact, the main task of all our policies, including foreign policy, must be to ensure the durability and development of the Estonian state and people. The aim of foreign policy must be, on the one hand, to bear in mind the economic, cultural and security interests of the country in its relations with its bilateral and multilateral partners, but, on the other hand, to of course contribute to the development of the security environment that surrounds us in a way and in a direction that is in line with the interests of our country. In this context, it is certainly important to think about the balance of foreign policy based on interests and values. I dare say that clean solutions, where interests and values fall by 100%, are regrettably few. There are many difficult places in the world, figuratively speaking from China to Palestine. When and to what extent should Estonia be guided by its own national concepts and beliefs and when should the interests of its major bilateral cooperation partners be guided? When should we try to influence processes through the international organisations to which we belong? To what extent should the international community use the whip on human rights and to what extent should the carrot be used? These are issues that we should certainly focus more on in our internal political debate. I am very pleased that, within the framework of the fundamental issues of Estonian foreign policy, we do not need to talk about what Lord Acton called the tyranny of the majority. The joint section sought in the Riigikogu over the last year and also found between political parties with different world views on the matter of moving towards a border agreement between Estonia and Russia is undoubtedly a commendable example of the unity of our foreign policy. What is more, it creates the assumption that at least the Estonian side will not be able to expect any internal obstacles to reach the agreement, which could be a brake for the smooth ratification of the agreement. That is, of course, if we can get to that deal. However, it is true that foreign policy coherence can in some cases only be achieved at the level of the minimum common denominator. In a situation where more and more Estonian people have started working and living outside Estonia, and more and more of them are faced with the question of whether to remain a citizen of the Estonian state or apply for citizenship in their new country of residence at one or the other moment, a serious debate on double or multiple citizenship is well-founded and relevant. I would like to congratulate the Foreign Minister for raising this issue in the public debate. However, today's speech would also have expected a clear vision of how to move forward with this burning problem for us. Although national regulations on citizenship are not directly an issue of foreign policy, in a situation where our diaspora is growing rapidly and Estonia's population is decreasing, there is a clear foreign policy dimension and significance on this subject. My colleague, Mrs Front, raised the issue of the UN Security Council. Yes, we have focused on how to become a member of the UN Security Council. Undoubtedly, being elected will require significant diplomatic efforts, which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has also begun, and, if realised, this objective will open up a number of new opportunities to us. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U98	Please, three minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U99	At the same time, with the focus on being elected, we have left at least for the time being quite open what we then want to do as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council, and in which matters that are not very common to us, we must be able to take positions. I think that is the key issue. Mr Fronta spoke here about two high political institutions. The fact that the Office of the President of the Republic and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs see slightly different solutions to an important issue is not such a big problem for me. In this hallway, journalists asked me if the Social Democrats had any disagreements with the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the main lines that were addressed by the Government of the Republic's report. I can say I'm not. These major areas of human rights, Internet freedom, development cooperation, energy security, sustainable relations with bilateral and multilateral cooperation partners, the current status of the Eastern Partnership, are all important, necessary and reasonable. At the same time, I would like to say that our Foreign Minister is already quite active in this job and, in addition to describing the current situation and marking the broad lines of the coming year, he would have wanted to hear more about the analysis of long-term trends. We know that, for example, developments in the Eastern Partnership countries do not fully respond to what we expected, for example, four, five or six years ago. As a small country, we must undoubtedly accept that not all developments in the corners of the world far from us are subject to our influence. However, if we have, as target countries for our development cooperation or as countries that could benefit significantly from the advice we provide, in particular, the Eastern Partnership countries, then we should be able to honestly analyse why the developments we have tried to guide have, in reality, taken a slightly different path. I hope that the foreign policy debate for next year will focus more on analysing long-term trends and understanding Estonia's place in the current rapidly changing security environment, not so much on marking the current situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U100	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Before we go to the next item, I would like very much to thank the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Chairman and members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and all the members of the Riigikogu who took the floor on this item. Thank you very much for helping us to succeed. The debate is closed and the first item is addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U101	We will move on to the second item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft Defence Union Act 190 initiated by the Government of the Republic. Aivar Riisalu, Vice-Chairman of the National Defence Committee, please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U102	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, the full text of the Defence Union Act, which is the result of 19 sessions of the National Defence Commission, has reached second reading. The National Defence Committee dealt with this bill in very detailed terms, in cooperation with representatives of the Defence Forces and the Defence League and the Ministry of Defence. The Defence League is a unique organisation in the world and we do not have any experience other than that of Estonia to help with the processing of the law on it. It was also interesting to consider the fact that many of the members of the National Defence Committee and the staff, including the members of the National Defence Commission, have been involved in the process, so the initiators of the draft had to fight with practitioners. As we know, practice is a criterion of truth. Practitioners understand legal texts a little differently. I would like to mention specifically the very methodical work of Mati Raidma, Chairman of the National Defence Commission, when dealing with drafts at all, but above all when dealing with the draft law on the Defence Union. His logical approach to the various links between the sections of this law has been so thorough that a large number of colleagues could learn from him how one bill should be dealt with. In addition to the initiators of the draft, representatives of the Defence League and the Defence Forces, the Commission also heard from a wide range of interest groups, in particular, of course, proposals from volunteers, reserve officers of the Defence League, and even individuals. The Defence League is a civil society association with nearly 20000 members. There are always many opinions on such a law, but I dare to assure the Commission, as a rapporteur, that in fact all the proposals, including those from the members of the organisation, were taken into account. With regard to specific amendments, it can be said that the members of the Riigikogu and the political groups did not come directly with amendments. The Commission finalised the proposals for one amendment, which in fact consists of 140 amendments. And since the bill has 109 sections, you can logically conclude that more than one thing was changed in some sections. In conclusion, however, we considered it wise that the amendments made by the Commission should be summarised in a single proposal. The Defence Union Act should enter into force on 1 April, as the new Civil Service Act and the Defence Forces Service Act will enter into force on the same day. The Defence Union Act requires that implementing legislation relating to the law be prepared and adopted and enforced by 1 April. On the basis of the above, the Committee on National Defence considers that the draft could be done at third reading on 28 February. This whole bill required a lot of emotional and substantive work, but it doesn't make sense to bring out all the emotions here. However, I dare to confirm once again that if there are such in-depth discussions in the Riigikogu on all the drafts, there are only a few recent examples of what was going on in the Committee on the Environment, then it could be said that Parliament is reaching a pretty good new level in the process of dealing with draft laws. During the sessions of 14 and 19 February this year, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft Defence Union Act be included on the agenda of the Riigikogu on 21 February for the second reading. The Commission also decided to approve the text of the draft at second reading, the table of amendments and the explanatory memorandum to the second reading. We also decided by consensus to propose to the House that the second reading of the draft law on the Defence Union be stopped. This is where I thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U103	There is at least one question for the rapporteur. Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U104	The rapporteur from the Commission. As a representative of the Commission, can you confirm that the Defence Union Act meets all the conditions that the Defence Union will be subject to a new National Defence Development Plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U105	The National Defence Committee, in which you too, a good colleague, Neeme Suur, on many occasions as a specialist, found that the new law corresponds to the new tasks set out by the Defence League as much as we now know these new tasks. The new National Defence Development Plan says little more about the Defence League than that the Defence League should somehow begin to function as a defence community. The Defence League is expected to make a much greater contribution in terms of human resources, i.e. an increase in membership. The organisation needs to grow its membership. I'm only happy about this as an active defence ally, but it's pretty difficult to recruit people if they can't get training and a very clear perspective. At the same time, it is clear that neither the implementing acts nor the operational programme implementing the new development plan are yet to be implemented; it cannot be ruled out that the law of the Defence Union must also be corrected. During my parliamentary career, which has been going on for almost six years, I have come to the conclusion, when discussing matters with my colleagues, that if the legislator is to prepare a legislative proposal that has been long, difficult, but substantive, it must be completed at one point. We draw a line and say that this is the law today, and if there is a need for change, we do not need to be afraid to change anything. After all, the aim is for citizens living under this law to have a normal and functional living environment, and we are invited here to provide it for the people. If there is something to consider, or if something went completely wrong, then we must not have the fear to change it. We must not live in fear that in this case we will lose our face on the contrary, we will then be double-security and correct our mistakes or introduce innovations to make life in Estonia worth living. This concerns, of course, particularly in the current context, the Defence League and its place in national defence. If a country recognises a unique organisation such as the Defence League, even by being given additional tasks, it is only positive. Small Estonia does not have many choices, but we have only made good choices in national defence. Once again, I would like to thank all the parties on this board who have left national defence untouched by the political pull winds. The National Defence Committee is a committee with less substantial work and less policy. The country is the only one we have, and defending it is a process in which we must not think that I will do it today, not tomorrow. It has to be continuous. We must not think about whether or not there will be a war, we must think about when it will begin.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U106	Mati Raidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U107	Thank you very much. For the sake of the study, I note that the government has adopted the ten-year development plan for national defence, but the implementation of the ideas of this plan will be completed in the summer, where after analysis proposals will be put in place, which will need to be amended in Estonian law. I ask: is the National Defence Committee prepared to discuss the current Defence Union Act on the basis of the proposals contained in the operational programme in the second half of this year?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U108	I think that the Committee on National Defence is based on the clear national needs that the government puts on the table. I admit that we have touched on this in the Commission. I can say with quite a strong conviction that we must make corrections this year, both in the Defence Forces Service Act and in the Defence Union Act. And apparently, the process of drafting a universal national defence law may slow down somewhat. We were actually hoping to get this draft ready in 2013, because in it we will bring together all the defence aspects of the war and peace era. I think that if Parliament, the government and the people of Estonia have accepted that we contribute 2% of GDP to national defence, then our task as legislators and government is to give the people a sensible and well thought-out law in this regard. If corrections are to be made, it can also be adjusted to justify the confidence of the people.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-21_U109	Good waitress! Good fellows! Before we go on with questions, we will vote on the Committee on Foreign Affairs' proposal to extend the current session until the agenda is exhausted, if necessary, but no longer than 14 o'clock. Let us begin preparations for this vote. Dear colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs to extend today's sitting until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 14 p.m. Please take a stand and vote. 36 delegates voted in favour, no votes against or abstentions. The proposal was supported. I'm gonna ask you to get back to the speaker's chair, Aivar Riisalu! No further questions? Then I thank the waitress! Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. We will go to the examination of the amendments to the draft 190. A proposal for amendment of the draft has been received from the lead committee. We have examined the amendments. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading. The second reading is closed and the second item is closed. Good fellows, today's session is closed. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 12.46 p.m.
