ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the Monday session of the sixth working week of the fifth plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. I ask for a speech chair from the Government of the Republic of Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U2	Madam President, thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching three draft laws today. Firstly, the draft Act ratifying the Paris Protocol Supplementary Agreement between the High Headquarters of the Republic of Estonia and NATO European Forces and the High Commander of NATO Development Headquarters; secondly, the draft Act amending the Paris Protocol concerning the ratification of the Supplementary Agreement between the High Headquarters of the Republic of Estonia and NATO European Forces and the High Commander of NATO Development Headquarters. The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Defence Urmas Reinsalu in the proceedings of these two draft laws. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Commercial Maritime Act and the Port Act, the Riigikogu represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U3	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Together with my colleagues from the Centre Party Group, I have an inquiry to the Minister of Culture, Rein Lang. It's about the popular calendar application. Last summer, the State Chancellery announced a public procurement for the creation of a smart application to display national holidays and folk calendar dates, which would provide the user with information on the historical background and content of the deadline. One condition was that the application should be linked to the user's Facebook account and the user should have the opportunity to inform their Facebook friends about the deadline. On 12 February this year, the popular calendar application was presented at the request of the State Chancellery and it was made public that it was spent a total of 32000 euros. We will ask the Minister a total of seven questions on this subject, asking about both the content and the cost of the application. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U5	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U6	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will report an inquiry to Home Secretary Ken-Marti Vaher. The subject is the disclosure of state secrets and the embezzlement of the prefecture's money. Unfortunately, I have seen in the last two weeks how it is attempted to rule out a debate on a few issues in this Chamber. I hope, however, that we can also talk about unpleasant matters. I will read out the questions we are asking and hope to get answers to in this Chamber. The questions to the Minister of the Interior are as follows: How do you explain that more and more employees of the Police and Border Guard Board will be brought to justice? Is it the weaknesses of the promotion system or the lack of internal control? Why are the PMA staff involved in criminal matters hidden from the public? What state secret may lie in the misappropriation of the property of the prefecture, the disclosure of state secrets and the counterfeiting of documents and the use of falsified documents? The third question: who do you think is politically responsible for finding more and more corrupt crimes in the PBA every year? And try to guess for yourself what background we're asking these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U7	Thank you. On behalf of the Management Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted three drafts; the Management Board decides to accept them in accordance with the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act. I have also accepted two inquiries on behalf of the Riigikogu's management board. If they comply with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward them to the addressees without delay. Now to the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them. First of all, the Riigikogu Committee on Culture s. On 20 February, the Riigikogu's decision to appoint a member of the Supervisory Board of the National Library of Estonia, the leading committee, the Cultural Committee; secondly, the Social Democratic Party Group and Rainer Vakra, Inara Luigase, Lembit Kaljuvee, Deniss Borodichi and Kalle Laaneti, members of the Riigikogu. a draft law on the amendment of the Electricity Market Act, initiated on 21 February, by the Committee on Economic Affairs; thirdly, the Group of the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union and the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. a Draft Act amending the Paldiski Municipality Organisation Act, initiated on 20 February, Leading Commission, Legal Affairs Committee. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has decided to set the deadline by which the draft Act amending the Electricity Market Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, will be made available to the members of the Riigikogu. a 26 February at 5.15 p.m. I have forwarded the inquiry of the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher and returned the inquiry No 297 to its performers. The members of the Riigikogu formed an envoy group against trafficking in human beings and violence last Thursday. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 89 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, 12 are missing. Let's get to the adoption of this week's agenda. You have received the 6th working week's agenda. Ladies and gentlemen, I will vote on the agenda for the sixth working week of the plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 83 delegates voted in favour, no one opposed, one abstention. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U8	Today's agenda contains answers to questions. The first is an inquiry by Priit Toobali, Valeri Korbi, Tarmo Tamme, Ester Tuiksoo, Mikhail Stalnukhini, Kalev Kallo, Kadri Simson, Aadu Musta and Enn Eesmaa to the future of Estonian literature on 17 January 2013 (No 265) to the Minister of Culture Rein Lang. On behalf of Riigikogu's heirs, please speak to Priit Toobali!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you very much. On 17 January this year, I, together with my colleagues, discussed the questioning of the Centre Party Group to Mr Rein Lang, Minister of Culture. This concerns the future of Estonian literature, mainly in view of what is happening around public libraries and e-books. § 2 of the People's Library Act states that the purpose of the National Libraries is to provide residents with free and unlimited access to information, knowledge, achievements of human thought and culture and, at the same time, to support lifelong learning and self-development. The municipal library, which collects, maintains and makes available to the reader the publications, auvs and other information and public databases necessary for it, is considered to be a public library. The Manifesto of the UNESCO Public Libraries states that the authorities responsible for the existence and maintenance of public libraries, both at local and national level, must support the activities of libraries and must be financed by the budgets of both the state and local authorities. In an interview published in Postimees on 9 January of this year, the Minister of Culture announced the intention of losing the state's literary support for the printing of books in the future. The Minister also stressed that the state must exit the system of support for libraries and focus its attention on e-prints. The Minister has also found that only merchants benefit from reduced VAT rates on books. On 17 January, we asked the Minister eight questions on this issue and we ask him to answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U10	Thank you. I'd like to ask Rein Lang, Minister of Culture, for a speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good heirs! Telemen! Since I've been asked eight questions, I'm trying to answer them. The first question: 'What analysis do you consider appropriate to give up the state's literary support for the printing of books? ' Thanks for the question, but I'm embarrassed to answer that question! There is no direct literary support for printing separate books and no Estonian government, including this government, whose Minister of Culture was a representative of the Central Party, has ever intended to establish such direct printing support. At least it hasn't been able to identify it. Books are subject to a reduced VAT rate of 9%. Perhaps the questioners consider this to be a support for the printing of books. The Ministry of Culture has not proposed to increase or reduce this VAT rate, and I also do not know that anyone else has put forward such a formal proposal. The Cultural Endowment of Estonia provides support for issuing books. The capital of the latest literature has occasionally also supported the printing of books. Nor, as far as I know, has the Literary Endowment Council taken a decision that they will not support the printing of books if this printing is justified. If the good questioners were thinking about supporting literature as a whole, with the mistaken view only of supporting the printing of books, then I would say that the country has a much stronger and more effective intention of supporting the art of speech than such. The volume of the literary programme of the Ministry of Culture is increasing from year to year. Support for the Literary Programme will be higher in 2013 than ever before, with a double increase compared to the 2012 grant. In 2012, an arduous amount of EUR 63000 was allocated, with a budget of EUR 120000 for 2013. There has also been an increase in the budget for the Literature Endowment of Cultural Capital, which is EUR 1350841 this year. Compared to last year, this money is more than EUR 100000. Cultural Endowment supports literature through creative scholarships, royalties, grant grants for book production and financing of literary events. The Cultural Endowment also supports literature through the Traducta scholarship programme, which was set at 85000 euros in 2012, and through the "Open Estonian Book" series of Philosophy works with a budget of 140000 euros in 2012. The second question: 'What effect would the abandonment of the state's literary support for the printing of books have on the Estonian economy? ' Again, thank you for your question. However, since there has never been such support, which you are complaining about losing, the Ministry of Culture has not analysed the impact of losing it on the Estonian economy. The third question: 'What analysis do you consider appropriate to give up the state support to public libraries? ' Certainly, the state will not give up supporting public libraries, nor have I made any such proposal. The state will take care of the information system of the network of public libraries and secure web connections, with considerable costs for this purpose. We will continue to do so. According to § 3 (1) of the People's Library Act, the National Library is a local government institution. Under the same law, the state must provide support to the public library for the acquisition of information material, the connection to the public data network and the acquisition of appropriate technical means. This obligation has been fully fulfilled by the State. Moreover, the state has given more than 1.5 million euros to public libraries over the last three years, which represents about half a million euros of operating support per year, although this is not a state obligation under the law at all. But now I would like to point out that the responsibility for the development and acquisition of public libraries lies primarily with the owners of public libraries, or local governments. If local authorities see the possibility of savings in the acquisition of journals, that is what is currently a problem. The state does not have to take on and can not bear all the local government's costs. A reasonable system would be a system in which the state would provide certain information to public libraries with central purchases. The Ministry of Culture is currently working on this system. But the selection and purchase of books in your library should certainly be carried out independently by local authorities according to their needs and opportunities. The following question: 'What effect would a waiver of state support have on the network of public libraries and on the availability of literature? ' The network of public libraries is owned by local authorities and concerns about the financing of public libraries should be addressed to local authorities in particular. It is true that one day it was decided that, because the municipalities were difficult, the state began to support local government institutions, i.e. libraries directly with money for the purchase of journals. Many municipalities also reduced their financial contribution to maintaining the library. Now some municipal officials are trying to show the state's help as an obligation to complete their library, which, in my opinion, is essentially the wrong approach. Once again: when it comes to supporting public libraries by the state, we are certainly not talking about ending it, but at the same time we need to look at how these grants can be used more effectively so that the art of speech reaches all present and future readers. Question 5: Have the number of people's libraries increased in recent years? " Unfortunately, the number of people's libraries borrowings has been declining. While there were 12016130 loans in 2009 and 11973000 loans in 2010, there were 11959159 loans in 2011. In 2012, according to our data, there were 11580735 people's library loans, which is 3.2% less than last year. Looking at the trend, the decrease in the number of loans is steeper than in previous years. The following question: 'What effect does the loss of access to printed paper in Estonia have on people's eyes, knowledge and educational levels? ' I dare say that the availability of paper publications in Estonia in general has not decreased, but has increased. The quality of the information on these media is a matter of particular concern. No one has so far studied how the replacement of the works printed on paper with e-files affects the horizon, knowledge and level of education of Estonian people. If the questioners consider the lack of free access to new paper books in public libraries, which is partly correct as a result of the appreciation of books and the irresponsibility of part of the local authorities, this certainly has no positive impact on the reading habits of certain groups of the population, on the development of the horizon, on knowledge and also on the level of education. I therefore call on local authorities to give sufficient support to public libraries in acquiring information. The cultural task of the state is to support the development of vocabulary in such a way that publishers have what to publish as a book, bookstores to sell, and public libraries to lend to people. Question 7: 'If the Ministry of Culture gives priority to the acquisition of e-prints, how will the availability of these publications be ensured for all citizens? ' Now I'm really embarrassed because I don't know what e-print is. If the questioners are referring to e-books, those e-books whose copyrights have been transferred to the state will become accessible to everyone free of charge via a public computer network 24 hours a day on seven days a week. Of course, such books are available to those who have the equipment to read such texts. And there are various devices. Allow me here to appeal to the thinking local government leaders and librarians. Think and analyze whether it would be worth purchasing e-readers for readers in your service area who, for some reason, are unable to purchase the equipment needed to read e-books, which could be rented to such people. Certainly the paper book will not disappear in the coming years, but the transition to e-books is a rather irreversible technological process that the government would certainly not be wise to stop. In time, a similar transition took place from horse chariots to cars. And the last question: 'How do you see the role of the public library in Estonia in 2020? Do you consider it necessary to have public libraries? ' Personally, I think there will be public libraries in Estonia in 2020, but traditional library services have changed a lot by then. In order to understand trends in libraries in Estonia as well as in the rest of the world, the Ministry of Culture will convene a working group aimed at devising the nature of the library service in the 21st century and making appropriate proposals for updating the laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U12	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions and answers. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U13	Good minister! At yesterday's president's reception, I had a conversation with a number of cultural people, and some of them were concerned that the Minister of Culture had become somewhat repulsive and evil. Today's correction for the mistakes that e-print does not exist and whatever it can be true, but I would say that it is also, in a sense, a sign of evil. But now I'm going to ask my question. Vinyl plates are coming back because there is a cultural need for them. Does the good minister not think that perhaps the Minister of Culture does not have the utmost discretion to declare his disappearance from this remote paper book? The paper papers had to disappear, too, but they're not. Is the paper book still disappearing? What is your personal position on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U14	If you don't listen, the thought won't make it. I have said clearly that paper books will certainly not disappear in the near future, but the transition of texts to cyberspace is an irreversible process in itself. If you look at the share of vinyl discs in the music market, it's negligible, completely disappearing. I cannot imagine that, because of such a negligible market share, the state should take any initiative and take a strong stance to support the issuance of vinyl plates. That would be a kinky story. But if you think I've become evil, I haven't. I'm smiling at you right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U15	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U16	I certainly support the digitalisation of literary works under the leadership of the state. In my opinion, the problem now is to contrast e-books with paper books and libraries. In addition, you put the local government on another task, but you don't give the money to buy the books. If you were to lead a small municipality whose wallet is quite thin, which you would choose: a street lighting, which is an elementary necessity, or a road-housing, snow-slapping, some kind of poverty support, or books? Yeah, it's actually a bad question, but there's nothing to be done, people have to deal with this kind of thing. Is it not the task of the state to pursue a fair cultural policy? Let us not forget that we have still been one of the nations with a greater reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U17	But what tasks do we want to add to the local government? No one has talked about any new local government functions. The People's Library Act states the responsibilities of local governments in the case of public libraries. Nobody wants to put anything more in there. But you asked me what I would do in a small neighborhood if I had a choice, either in meaningless street lighting or in books. I'd choose the books.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U18	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U19	Minister, thank you very much. As far as I am concerned, the state started to support municipalities in acquiring books at just the good times when the local governments' income base grew. Now that the municipal income base is reaching the 2008 level, the Ministry thinks that the municipalities have enough money and that this money could be taken away. I specifically ask you: does the Ministry have a plan to reduce the proportion of municipalities in the collection of books for public libraries and, if so, in what amount?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U20	This is not planned in 2013 nor in 2014. But I think that by 2015, when the entire system of e-books has been launched on a very large scale, we will review the amounts allocated to the local government libraries for the purchase of books.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U21	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U22	Good minister! Technical progress is about like a pregnancy; it just has to run. The distinctive feature of Estonia's technical progress is that it is often led by people with afe Christian tendencies. When I start thinking about digital TV, it means the picture disappeared, the validator has made driving worse, and so on. In short, it is a technical progress that is beaten from behind and not allowed to go peacefully. This e-luger, I don't know, maybe that's a good thing. But how can we protect the transition to the e-book from the technology aquantists that are peculiar to Estonia, who make it their means of raising their personal prestige and their source of income?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U23	I'm totally out of line! I cannot answer this question exhaustively in any way. Well, there are certainly people in all kinds of technological transitions who are trying to profit from it personally. This is the history of the world, but it has not been able to distort the overall development of technology. When we look at Estonia's development, Estonia's development, especially in relation to all kinds of e-solutions, has been extremely rapid. One interesting observation in the case of Estonia is that there have been much fewer of these avant-tyrists here than there have been in many other countries. I very much hope that, in the case of e-books, we will also be able to keep avant-tyrists away from the system of public support. It's like what we do every day. As far as the free market is concerned, it is more of a matter for the Consumer Protection Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U24	Thank you. Please, Urmas Glass!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U25	Dear Minister, There are probably very many people in this Chamber who do not know this, but this year will certainly go down in history by the fact that the good cooperation between the state, local governments and private individuals has begun to issue very fundamental Setu-language books. The Old Testament has emerged, and it is planned to publish several dozen more works with the great support of the state. How do you assess the representation of the publications of the Foundation's Cultural page in public libraries? Has the support of the state benefited our culture and the people, or do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U26	I think it is very positive that cultural journalism has once again become available in public libraries. In the meantime, if there were quite a number of libraries to which the Foundation's Cultural Website publications, such as Rainbow and Looting magazines, and even Sirp did not arrive at all, then they are now there again. What if their readers are alone in a small public library? These people still have the constitutional right to obtain these publications from the local library. Very many of the leaders of the public libraries ignored this right and said that because their readership is small, they have ordered something else for the grant money. This approach is, in my opinion, wrong.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U27	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U28	Good minister! A simple question: What do you prefer when you read the book: a paper or a tablet?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U29	If I want to read a book at home, I'll read it on paper. But since I'm a very mobile person, on the plane, I'm going to take along some kind of device that I can read the texts without carrying the books. In my briefcase, they both exist, but my daughter basically reads books using only a tablet.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U30	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U31	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I want to thank you for your positive and fun answers. It's been a long time since we've had such a good mood for the minister's answers in this hall. For a particularly long time, I will remember this sentence, which contained a word pair of "unreasonable street lighting." It's something special! However, I would like to support you on one point. You stated that the number of book loans decreased by 3.2%. Actually, it's not right to compare absolute numbers. In the same time, since 2009, many people have left Estonia. There are 25,000 Estonians living in and near the city of Helsinki alone, and there are more of them all over the world. If the ratios are to be taken as a basis, the number of book loans should be much higher.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U32	We're out of question time!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U33	Of course, I'm really glad I made you feel good. You see, my day's work has borne fruit! Now, of course, we could discuss the subject of 'no senseless street lighting' to infinity, where it's pointless, where it's not pointless. I have seen a lot of meaningless street lighting projects here in Estonia, especially in smaller municipalities. But basically, you might even be right that book rentals are decreasing, in particular, in the libraries of sparsely populated areas. The fact that people are concentrating more and more on living in cities is a fact. And in cities, the availability of literature is entirely different from that of the land. So in a way, you might be right. However, it is certainly not right that more people have left Estonia many times than the 25,000 who live in the region of Uusimaa. If you have any more detailed information about the location of Estonians around the world, the government is very interested in where you got them. Perhaps you could introduce them to us.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U34	Thank you. Please, Juku-Kalle Raid!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U35	Good Rein, can you assure colleagues in the Centre Party that the Ministry of Culture will not destroy paper books, force anyone to read e-books, and will not force them to shut down libraries? Then we could call this item closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U36	The closure of public libraries is not within the competence of the Ministry of Culture. It's the jurisdiction of local governments. If a library is shut down somewhere, it's a local government decision. For God's sake, these decisions are not coordinated with the Ministry of Culture. The destruction of paper books is not planned. Seriously, no plan, I assure you. Personally, and also on behalf of my colleagues, I can say that I am not going to destroy. And we're still supporting the literature.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U37	Thank you. Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U38	Minister, thank you very much. It was said that the number of rentals in public libraries has decreased. It is as if it is concluded that the people of Estonia are reading less. At the same time, there were objections. Is there any difference between generations? Do young people read less? I've observed a tendency that older people read more. At the same time, I state my opinion that technological innovations only support young people's reading interests. But what about the difference between reading interests of the younger and older generations? Is there any data on this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U39	The Ministry of Culture's budget is exactly what it is. Although we don't have much money to do all kinds of research. I have read a study by the University of Tartu that shows a much greater interest in e-files in the younger generation, but I am indebted to the exact answer. I don't know that we've had any research that would have dissected the use of libraries by social groups and age groups.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U40	Thank you. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U41	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I appreciate your excellent elan response here today, but if at the same time I put myself in the position of public librarians who are hundreds and very good in Estonia, then I have always had a feeling and today's answers have confirmed that your attitude towards the public library is creating fear in these good people. Is that your purpose, or is this some kind of communication disorder?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U42	I have no purpose in causing fear among the staff of public libraries. My recommendation to these people is to go first and foremost to the local government leaders and try to uncover the library's collection issues there. You should not rely on the house in Suur-Karja 23 in Tallinn on this issue. After all, the Ministry of Culture and the government have so far given some support, and they will continue to provide information in the coming years, but it cannot replace a line such as buying books for the public library in the local government budget. As I emphasised in my replies, after the establishment of state support, certain municipalities began to reduce their appropriations for public libraries. And if the local government leaders irresponsibly send their fine librarians to protest to the Ministry of Culture, this is the wrong address. You'd still have to go to the local parish house.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U43	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U44	Dear Minister of Culture, I understand from your answers that you are encouraged by the desire to save money. You have now chosen to save money in the future by no longer buying paper books for the Ministry of Culture's budget. At the same time, you offer e-books as an alternative. In my understanding, if you want to read an e-book, you have to buy it. The authors have no interest in sharing their works free of charge in thousands of copies. How's that schematic? Will Estonian authors give their copyrights free of charge? Have you developed it? If so, why don't you tell us more about how e-books will be available for free in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U45	Good Kadri! Your real problem is you don't listen to what they say. I was just talking about the specific amounts that the government is allocating to support the art of speech, and you are asking a question in which you claim that the government's goal is to save money. Certainly no author can be forced to surrender his or her rights free of charge, that is absolutely clear. But there are also many works for which copyrights do not apply. These include the works of Anton Hansen Tammsaare, whose use became vacant two years ago. I hope this year we can put all such works in the digital environment as e-books. As I said before, they are available on the public computer network 24 hours a day and seven days a week. But whatever I'm saying here, you're not listening anyway, you're talking to Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U46	Thank you. Please, Mart Meri!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U47	Good minister! I'm gonna get a little wider on this. You said that a commission for the future of public libraries would be set up. But have you thought about school libraries in your house? It's also one of the types of libraries. What exactly is in them? In particular, of course, teaching literature, but they are also libraries. This question also relates to the whole subject of the e-book. The Ministry of Education wants to take the development of e-learning resources very seriously and there are parallel issues that could be discussed by the two ministries together. So this is the question: has this future committee also contacted the sister ministry in Tartu?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U48	Thank you. The Prospective Committee will certainly be able to involve all representatives to whom the subject of the school library is known. But we have also discussed this with the Minister of Education and come to a very clear understanding that it is reasonable to reconcile the functions of public libraries with those of school libraries in the future. What exactly is the way this is going, why don't you show me the future, but it certainly doesn't make sense to maintain two libraries in a very small area.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U49	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U50	The word 'e-print', which you made a mockery of in response here, is taken from the press release of the Ministry of Culture, which states: 'Lang: could use more e-prints. ' It's not made up by us. But if you are joking that the Centre Party Group is concerned about this issue, if you do not take it seriously, then the Publishers' Union, the Writers' Union, the Librarian Association and the Native Language Teachers' Association have published a joint address in which they drew attention to the same issues and their concerns about this issue. Are you telling them in the same way that they have misunderstood everything and that there really is no problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U51	I think that this contrast between e-books and paper books has not come from the Ministry of Culture, but from somewhere else. Perhaps from those who fear that support for literature may not really be mere support for the issuing of paper books. I hope that this discussion will reveal the truth. Unfortunately, it has become more and more difficult to declare the truth, because all kinds of public relations organisers, whose task it is to protect the interests of their clients, quickly push their opinion through in the Estonian media.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U52	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, in the case of an inquiry, every member of the Riigikogu is able to ask one oral question. Any more questions? No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Minister of Culture Rein Lang! Let's get to the negotiations. The wish to speak is on Mikhail Stalnukhin. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U53	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. I'd stop at four points. Point 1. During this discussion, the Minister argued that a clear truth is not possible, it is not a discussion, it is a gesture to each other, there is no winner in a fight and no truth will ever be revealed. Point 2. The minister advised the municipalities not to rely on the 23 institutions of Suur-Karja. No one's hoping. Point 3. I am apologizing to the absent minister for interrupting my colleague's outstanding comments. But I explained to Kadri what it was like in the electronic text market. Here's an example: if I print a random sentence from a Russian writer, a random quote into Google's search system, the system will provide me with dozens of addresses where I can get the whole work. I have repeatedly tried to do the same with Estonian classics, such as Luts or Tammsaare or Vilde, and I have not been able to get these texts. So in the electronic book market, we have a pretty bad situation. Point 4. I hope that Mr Gräzin will at least talk about this point to the Minister, but it would be better than the previous one. In 2009, I wrote an article on information based on IMF data. It was clear exactly how many Estonians live abroad and pay taxes in other countries. If anyone wants to, you can get it on my blog under the keyword MVF. So there is a source, and there is much more authority than our own sources. The International Monetary Fund knows exactly how many of our citizens and non-citizens work abroad. As for the people living in Estonia, in 2010 I suddenly discovered such a strange thing that the Central Intelligence Agency of the United States is also involved in statistics. They pointed out the number of Estonian residents, which was very different from what could be seen on the website of Statistics Estonia. I have also written about this, and with the appropriate keyword, you can easily find the sources of these articles. The Minister of Culture could look at them with a view to the future. I think to him, the Central Intelligence Agency and the International Monetary Fund are very authoritative sources. So anytime you can see what the actual state of our population is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U54	Thank you very much. Igor Gräzini, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U55	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, what is left of us. What the Minister was talking about and about which the Minister was responsible for is, to a large extent, a problem of technical progress. I also referred to this in my question. And with the printing of books, technical aferism is nothing else. Gutenberg, of course, moved away from Lithuania's territory in order not to pay alimony. So we're grateful to him for the Bible, but not for the alimony. But in any case, this type of people has been in history before. But I would like to draw attention to a very simple problem. The reading of the book is a form of communication, a way of communication where the information that is inside it and the form in which the information is provided are inevitably linked. Reading the book as a physical activity is undoubtedly important both for understanding the contents of the book and for the general intellectual development of man. When they say, "What are you doing? ', can't answer: 'I'm going to read a book. 'Cause I'm gonna take the tablet and start popping it. A similar breakthrough occurred in the development of the sound film in its time. When the silent movie disappeared, the question arose as to whether the art of the film would remain as such. The history of sound film and the history of the book can be drawn into a very important parallel. The sound film was technically possible as early as 1918 but the engineers who created it did not launch the sound film until 1931. They had long been able to do so, but as intellectuals, they said that they were not the ones who axed on the art of film. They deliberately held back technical progress to preserve art. I think the same thing we need to bear in mind when deciding on public libraries. I particularly stress what the public library now represents in the Estonian countryside. It's also a place to get together, it's a place to talk, it's a place to exchange social information, and so on. Any computer class in this same village will never replace the library with its current functions. And another problem I want to draw attention to. In Rein Lang's speech as well as in the past by Jaak Aaviksoo, it came up, and that was what we were talking about today. It's a question of copyright. If you remember, there was also a problem with the PGS that, over time, all textbooks will have to go to the file form and be publicly available. The first question that arises in this connection: what about the copyrights of textbook makers? If I may, can I talk a little bit more?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U56	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U57	What about copyrights when I've written a textbook, but it's universally available? The same topic arose with regard to e-books. I think we need to propose to the government that it is necessary to decide which government institution will become the copyright centre in Estonia. There are a couple of lawyers who do this, but if you go to the e-book, it already includes the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Culture, several foundations, and ultimately even in the name of 'Estonian Song'. These songs are also performed from time to time in English and French. There are copyrights there too. There is no general solution to a number of copyright-related problems. By representing Estonian authorship now, namely, being the author or editor of more than one textbook, I express my concern about how the transition to e-formats will be with the rights of Estonian authors both inside and outside Estonia. In general, I think it is very gratifying that this is the way the issue came up. I am very pleased with the answers I heard from the Minister. Mikhail Stalnukhin spoke of very serious matters. Thank God that this problem has arisen, and let us not seek quick solutions to it, but seek good solutions. Indeed, it is not possible to avoid technical progress, unfortunately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U58	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural question or would you like a reply, Mikhail Stalnukhin?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U59	I have a procedural question. Madam President, § 140 of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure provides for the following procedure. I will read out the last sentence of this paragraph, which reads as follows: 'Before the conclusion of negotiations, the addressee of the inquiry may make a statement. ' There is nothing else suggesting that the addressee of the inquiry should suffer until the end of this Chamber and listen to what the members of the Riigikogu want to say to him, but this sentence suggests that he should be here. How do you now explain to us the fact that the addressee of the inquiry has left the Chamber, although we are discussing a very important issue, in my opinion and in my opinion, Mr Gräzini?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U60	It is written in the law that the addressee of an inquiry may appear, but does not need to appear. Going away was the choice of the minister, and no one can hold him here. He's got a chance, but he doesn't have to use it. Next, call chair, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U61	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, Since Monday is one day of rejection, thanks to inquiries and a free microphone, I would like to talk about the cultural situation a little more broadly in the light of this very subject of books. There are quite a few historians among my personal circle of friends who have written quite a few history books. I dare to consider these people to be part of the cultural people. And indeed, at yesterday's moody president's reception, they expressed quite a deep concern at the Ministry of Culture and, in fact, above all, the changes in the identity of the Minister of Culture. According to them, the dialogue has begun to disappear. When difficult questions are asked, the minister's answer is, figuratively speaking, that, listen, I've decided so, and let's cut the bullshit. Let's not get into this again. It all comes down to emotions, and these emotions have been up all day. The cultural people have spoken quite painfully about the speech of yesterday's president in our beloved electronic communication environment. I'm not going to quote the esteemed Märt Avandi or anyone here. But all of this kind of indicates that, I can't say, either the lack of money or what has led us into a crisis where we tend to lose our human-faced communication. I have repeatedly said from this remote control that I am a private entrepreneur in nature, and I do not remember a worse period of my life than doing private business. At the beginning of the 1990s, all we had was a good mood and a student ticket. We didn't have a big fat wallet from our parents and we weren't born into the Rothschild family, and the constant concern about the lack of money made us nervous. Today's topic mainly concerned books. I'm still an entrepreneur, and I'm also a publisher on one side. I am very sad that publishers should start thinking that the fruits of all their creative work will soon no longer be available in the form of lovely and beautifully designed books. Instead, there's some radiant gray or whatever color box or tablet screen where, when you damage your eyes, there's some kind of information that tries to be a book. The book in the classic sense of the word still means that an older man or woman puts a spectacle on her nose and starts reading it. It doesn't really go away. There aren't lost paper newspapers and there's not going to be a paper book out of our lives. But I am deeply concerned about the fact that people who are supposed to support culture as a result of their professional status sometimes tend to choose at least in words and probably not in deeds that are not right. When you're big, you have to be there for everyone, you can't be there for one or the other more or less. You can't be there to read that you're more there for one side or the other. My question to the Minister, I am thinking about this issue of vinyl plate, is that, in fact, we want to go back nostalgically in time, we need to remember and have some things near us that make us feel good about ourselves. I will also tell you honestly and directly that if we go to the e-book once and for all, copyrights will, of course, not be protected. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U62	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U63	Look what's happened in the music market that I feel a little bit! It doesn't make sense to make a plate anymore. You're making a record just because it's like it's part of making music. The next minute that record's out, you all know what's gonna happen. I'm gonna go buy a regular CD at the store, put it on my computer, and it's gonna open up a program that automatically finds the desired CD. At the same top is the English word rip, and then you start hanging. I don't know what that means, but it doesn't matter, it's important that this record comes to you beautifully on your computer. From there, it's possible to transfer this flash drive to anyone. It's not like it's not allowed, but it's actually happening. However, our country's policy could be such that we do not promote it. The state policy could also be to preserve language and culture, which is, however, possible only by physically issuing books. I admit to you, I haven't read any e-books. I can't do it, I get sick because the screen is shaking in front of my glasses, and it doesn't suit me. Our culture as a whole is now dominated by the same nervousness that I was talking about at the beginning of my story. It's like there's no money, but I really want to do everything. I'm freaking out that we're discussing today what the book's future is, what the present is, what the past is, and what it's supposed to be. I also think that our esteemed Estonian National Museum, which is now actually happening, is actually born from somewhere by force. This is certainly necessary, and all those who declare that it is not necessary would be like enemies of the Estonian people. I'm not saying you don't need this museum either. I need it! But doesn't the birth of this mean that if we build a glass house that is probably born according to a non-Estonian project in our climate, the scarce amounts of money used in our cultural field may be used for heating costs and other maintenance costs of the Estonian National Museum. We use a lot of money for this and it does not allow small museums to survive elsewhere in Estonia. At one point, we have made a move that cannot be reversed, and we have accidentally fallen into a situation where we are all very ill. And being bad is because at one point we didn't know how to calculate or because someone was forced to punch on the table, because I've decided so, and now this house is coming. And no one has ever wanted to listen to any argument, a suggestion that suddenly we are, but let's do it a little differently. It's the same with the whole book economy. I hope that in the future I will be able to print the books of our honourable Deputy Speaker of the Riigikogu, and also issue them on paper as a publisher. Because the book that the honourable Deputy Speaker of the Riigikogu was doing behind my back would not be suitable for an e-book. He has put all his soul into it, and if it wasn't available as a paper book, it's as if it's impossible to express at all what the author was trying to say with his book. Thank you. Long live the books!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U64	Thank you very much. Next, please speak to Tarmo Tamme!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U65	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The way the honourable Minister of Culture acted today shows quite clearly how the Minister feels about the need for people to read and how he feels about local authorities. To come here in front of the Riigikogu and say that this is the responsibility of local governments and that is the end of the subject for the minister, it is not appropriate for the minister. The existence of public libraries is important and their funding must be stable. The villagers do not have to worry about who specifically finances their public library. For all Estonian people, the possibility of reading books free of charge should be an elementary right and the state should be able to secure it. Mr Minister said that this funding for local governments should be cut off. However, let me remind you that it was the state that started to strongly support the financing of public libraries when the state was doing well. Year after year, these amounts increased and public libraries were able to acquire more and more good literature. I find it relatively cynical to come out now that the mast isn't over with the talk that local authorities should take over the funding of libraries. The Minister must clearly acknowledge that there is a chronic lack of money in the area of the Ministry of Culture and that this is being addressed by not buying the necessary information for public libraries. However, if the budgets of local governments do not grow and the state stops supporting, it is clear that it is no longer possible to acquire such a volume and level of literature. There is nothing to do; the local authorities really need to choose between the so-called meaningless street lighting and the books that are very much needed. I, too, believe that most municipalities choose the books they need. At the same time, street lighting is certainly not pointless. I imagine that if a person were to go to the library in the dark at night on an unlighted street, of course, this would not be the most pleasant experience. The government and the state should recognise that the chronic underfinancing of local authorities has led to a situation where we cannot guarantee people the most basic, whether it is an opportunity to read books or light up the streets. The Minister thinks it is appropriate to contrast these needs with one another. The state has not yet started to restore the former income base of local governments. As you know, in 2009 the share of income tax going to local governments was reduced from 11,90% to 0.5% and so far no percentage points have been returned. To speak now on behalf of the state that local authorities have become capable and able to carry out tasks that they have not performed so far, I do not think this is the right thing. Until it is established to restore the local government's income base, the state should not reduce its support for public libraries for the acquisition of books. Hopefully we'll all make sure that doesn't happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U66	Thank you very much. Any more calls? There's no more calls. The inquiry into the future of Estonian literature has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U67	After a hammer hit, it is possible to register for a speech in a free microphone. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U68	Madam Vice Speaker! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few words about logic, more specifically the absence of this phenomenon quite often in our work. Anything can happen, right? A few days ago, the President of the Republic of Estonia said that it is good to have doubts about Estonia and to be critical of matters. This shows that we are used to our country. On the same day, however, Minister of Finance Ligi said that any doubt should have ended, that doubt is abnormal. Where the logic is, I don't understand that. A few years ago, in 2010, in particular, there was a very interesting thing that took place one day. One of our high officials in the United States announced that the crisis is over and Estonia is happy to come out of it. And on the exact same day another official, the minister at the time, announced that the situation would get worse and the more difficult times ahead. Where the logic is, I don't understand that. Today we heard talk about meaningless street lighting. If there's a street, it's usually lighting, and if there's street lighting, it can't be pointless. There's no logic. I would like to remind you of a nice sentence that sounded in this hall last Wednesday and unfortunately remained unnoticed. Mr Tuus-Laul asked the Minister for Education a question and the Minister for Education began to answer that question. This answer, I'm going to read you a verbatim, I'm not going to change a single word, said: 'The biggest sufferers in integrated schools are those in primary schools where there is no upper secondary school degree. All statistical analyses show that access to higher education is significantly lower than that of schools where upper secondary school is available'. I repeat in my own words: if you have studied in a comprehensive school without upper secondary school, higher education is not unattainable, but it is much harder to access than in a school with both primary and upper secondary schools. I will remind you of what we discussed on Wednesday. We discussed the new version of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, which was introduced here by the Minister of Education. The most fundamental in this bill is the urgent desire to separate primary school and upper secondary school. I would remind you that the new plumbing school I hate is the word, but it is used when it comes to a school where both primary and secondary schools can no longer be formed from a certain time. Above all, funding will trigger all measures to separate upper secondary school and primary school. The minister himself says that it is much harder for a university to become a pure middle school than a school with a comprehensive school and a high school together. At the same time, he considers it appropriate to separate these schools, perhaps to make our children's chances of receiving higher education much worse. I would appreciate that about 50% of what is said in this Chamber, especially when the Minister of Education and Science answers on the remote, sounds absurd. Our political will is behind this, as one of our fellow Members used to put it. Come on, come on, we'll do it and we'll see what comes out later. I am sorry that coalition parties are present in this Chamber at the moment only with Madame Deputy Speaker. The rest are festively absent and do not hear the crap that sometimes comes with ministers' answers. It's harder for those in pure primary school to get higher education, but we still do primary school and upper secondary school separately! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U69	Thank you. Marika Tuus-Laul next, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U70	Ladies and gentlemen, I want to talk again today about how our political parties in power, the IRL and the Reform Party, in the last elections, made their way through a major fraud to Toompea and formed a coalition. As we recall, the IRL promised to halve home expenses with a big mouth and an honest face. We all remember such a slogan: reducing heating, water and electricity consumption by half! It was in several bucles as well as in television commercials and everywhere else. The changeover to the euro had just taken place, and the voter very much cared about lowering the high prices associated with home expenses. In fact, voters were deceived. Now we're talking about thermal insulation of apartment buildings. And those distorted promises, which were not actually intended to be fulfilled from the start, were played into the government. They're lying again now. The price of electricity is inevitably high and the best way to save is not to use electricity. The final price of electricity, or the amount on your account, good people, has been said many times, but to remind you once again that 75% of this amount is up to the government. The question now is that Prime Minister Ansip, Juhan Parts and Jürgen Ligi do not want to lower the price of electricity. The government is promoting price increases, as this money can help to patch up budget gaps and show economic growth. In reality, inflation will nullify growth, as we know. Once again, three-quarters of the final price is for the government to decide, and the following questions must be asked by the government parties. Why must the electricity excise duty be four and a half times higher than the minimum requirement of the European Union? Why has the government not reduced VAT on electricity and other household expenses? Many countries have done so. Why do we have network charges so high? Why was the price of network services increased so much in the shadow of opening up the electricity market? They were hoping people wouldn't notice. Indeed, the question has arisen as to whether the delivery of more expensive electricity by routes is more expensive for the company. If they say the power lines haven't been invested in years, I'm asking: why? Why has the state taken nearly one billion euros of dividends out of Eesti Energia for years in a row? Why couldn't this money have been used to upgrade power lines? Why can't we know the mechanism for the formation of network charges? What does it consist of? Why has this part of the Law been declared confidential? In neighbouring countries, this data is completely public. Why does the taxpayer have to pay for oil projects in the US, Jordan and elsewhere that amount to hundreds of thousands of dollars? These projects have also been approved by the Estonian Energy Council, including Kalle Palling, Meelis Atonen, Rein Kilk, Toomas Luman and Toomas Tauts. And why is the loss of the power line included in the network charges? It would be logical for these costs to be reflected in the electricity exchange price. Why were people ambushed that if you fail to choose the package, do not be afraid, no one will take your electricity away from you and only a reasonable profit will be added to the general service price. In fact, this price was raised to five times, especially for those old people who simply did not know how to choose the package. Why the cynical lie? Finally, why does our government want to bring the people back to the time of wood stove and furnace heating and air pollution? After all, we know that many electricity services are simply being abandoned right now. Our government is responsible for all of this. The Bulgarians dropped their government for high electricity prices. Väino Rajang, a well-known electrical engineer, asked in the newspaper a year ago: Does the increase in electricity cost lead away the Reform Party and the IRL government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U71	Thank you. I'm asking for a speech chair in Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U72	Ladies and gentlemen, The following is not a parable, although morals certainly exist in it. All you have to do is find and find. Against the background of rising electricity prices and increasing public dissatisfaction, it is useful to analyse what is happening in other European Union countries for the same reasons. In Bulgaria, the government recently resigned, although Prime Minister Boiko Borisov can be believed when he said that he did everything possible to prevent this tragedy. Borisov sacrificed his government minister of education, who, like the entire office, was accused of corruption. The unpopular Minister of Finance, which called for a strict austerity policy, was also guaranteed and even the authorisation granted to the Czech energy company CEZ to operate electricity distribution networks in some areas of the country was revoked. It must not be forgotten that Prime Minister Borisov was a rather popular man until the last events in Bulgaria. He did not reduce wages and pensions despite the urgent demand of the cutbacks, but it was still not enough for the people. Thousands came to the streets of several cities, civil unrest became almost political and eventually violent, the police beat the discontents, and Prime Minister Borisov stated in a statesmanly way that he was not willing to lead a country in which the police did not defend but beat his citizens. He announced that he would give that power back to the people who gave him power. The resignation of a democratically elected government in one country is always a tragedy for that country and its people. What really happened in this poorest country in the European Union? How many problems have been accumulated over the years, including the problems of the country's energy policy, which began in 2007, when Bulgaria became a country of the European Union? It is recalled that the then Bulgarian government agreed to close down the four smaller energy blocks of the Kozloduy nuclear power plant in order to be able to enter the European Union in 2007. A very large part of Bulgarians called this radical energy policy step a direct betrayal. In January of this year, the referendum on the construction of the second nuclear power plant in Bulgaria failed due to a small share of the country's second nuclear power plant, although 60% of those who participated in the vote supported the plan to build a new nuclear power plant in Belene, close to the Romanian border. The problem is that the Bulgarian Government acknowledged honestly last year that the new nuclear plant project was frozen. The reason is the lack of money, plus problems with the security of the Belene nuclear plant, which made everyone particularly concerned after what happened in Fukushima. Now it's been reported that the government has no money for Belene. Instead, the government wanted to extend the lifetime of the 2000 MW nuclear reactor at the Gozloduy nuclear power plant until 2021. The Bulgarians finally lost their patience when they received a massive increase in electricity bills in January. The minimum wage in their country is only EUR 130, and according to recent reports, almost 90% of Bulgarians support protest actions that are still being organised. The leaders of protestors have agreed on the following requirements: They want the country's constitution to be amended by replacing the electoral system with a majority with a proportional representation. They want to make it possible to bring legal action and even to dismantle legislators who fail to fulfil their obligations. President of Bulgaria, former Prime Minister Boiko Borisov's former party partner and current thinker, Rosen Plevneliev, will disband the Bulgarian Parliament during this week and appoint a temporary government, in which the Borisov party, the citizens of Bulgaria, for European Development, will not belong. The same position was reached and publicly stated by the socialists and the Turkish minority party. Thus, the Head of State announces early elections, which should take place in mid-May at the latest. This does not mean, however, that the Bulgarian crisis is over. Many people think it's just going to get crazy when power is criticized by everyone, but to take it, and with it, nobody really wants to be responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U73	Thank you very much. I'm asking for a speech chair in Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U74	Madam Vice-Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, I am taking this opportunity today to respond to the IRL politicians who are conducting regional policy, who were obviously disturbed by the fact that I dared to criticise their regional policy initiatives, especially as regards the removal of state institutions from Tallinn. First of all, I have the feeling that the Minister for Agriculture has little to deal with now. Why else would he turn to the Minister for Regional Affairs to take such an initiative? And he did it with a letter. They're ministers of a party, you could have called and talked about it, but I don't know if he was afraid of being eavesdropped or what it was about. They're communicating in writing, what the hell! However, the whole idea of breaking up functioning public institutions does not make sense. This entails a lot of unjustified costs, and the parties have not bothered at all to round up these sums. We've done some calculations, they're completely obvious. In addition, this step would lead to the destruction of the competences of the current state institutions. For at least two or three years, these institutions will not be able to take a job elsewhere as it has now been achieved. I would understand if we were talking about new businesses, establishing them somewhere else than Tallinn would be perfectly acceptable, but why start breaking up institutions and throwing them all over Estonia like this? However, it still does not guarantee equal treatment for people. After coming to Tallinn, several things can be done. What's the cost of all this if there's one thing to do in one town and another?! There was talk of administrative reform years before the current coalition began to work. It seems that Seeder is trying to draw attention to serious things when such thoughts come out. It is true that our local government leaders are willing to go along with the idea of making some money for the local government at any cost, getting a few cents from somewhere, selling themselves politically. But they are very poor, as the previous speakers have already said. That's how the officials' politicisation works. It's all over the place. The latest news is that the rural journalist Sulev Valner is also politicised. And because he's now become a member of the IRL, he gets a job with the regional minister. I wonder if all people could not be relocated to the ERM, that Valner would be taken to the Office of the Minister for Regional Affairs to promote administrative reform? Another as unfortunate conduct as it has been in the implementation of the administrative reform in Estonia can be sought. I would like to wish them every success in doing business, as is the administrative reform, but they are working on a replacement for a lack of administrative reform. Well, whatever it is, let's take a pen and calculate what it's gonna cost. And the parish leaders don't let them blind themselves to what the IRL is proposing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U75	Thank you very much. Call chair, Lauri Laas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U76	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, A week ago, nearly 500 people gathered in front of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications on Harju Street to protest against overpowering electrical bills and the condescending and indifferent attitude of the government. The assembled people expected Juhan Parts to meet with them and to give suggestions on how to cope with high home expenses. Unfortunately, this desire left the Duck indifferent, and he did not go to meet the people. Thus, the Minister was unaware of how people felt about increasing their initial network charges and rushing to an open electricity market. The biggest problem with our government is that they live in their own bubble. Over the years when the current coalition has been in power, ministers have lost their understanding of what is happening in Estonia and how the people actually live. This is confirmed by the speech made by the Prime Minister in Tartu on 23 February. While until now the Prime Minister has gone into the classic of election promises with the promise to bring Estonia among the five richest countries, Tartu's speech revealed that Estonia is one of the most successful countries in the world. According to Ansip, our success is evidenced by some statistical indicators that it sheds light on the direction it likes. But is there any joy in this success for a pensioner who, after paying home expenses, will have 50 euros left in his wallet for a month? The scissors are getting bigger between propaganda and real life. By the time the first electricity bills on the free market began to reach people, the IRL planned a powerful reputation campaign. Evidently, this was the way to ease the resentment of the people over unfulfilled electoral promises and lies. In the context of the crazy growth in home expenses, the slogan 'Time for Estonia' hung on bus pavilions, however, acted as spitting in people's faces. A stranger was also the statement by Tiit Riisalo, Secretary General of the IRL, that their party had been subjected to unfair criticism because of the election promise of home expenses. On the contrary, criticism is very fair and there has been too little criticism. Does Riisalo think that the people should nod in a positive way when the IRL promised to cut electricity bills by half, but instead doubled them? Or should IRL be praised for fighting monopolies, which has resulted in the price of water rising in many parts of Estonia? Or should I give my vote to the IRL for the tax exemption for failed homeland land, resulting in many families paying a higher land tax than ever before? However, Riisalo considers all of this to be few, and the people are making fun of them for nothing. Instead of reproaching the people, Tiit Riisalo could advise his fellow economic minister, the party partner, to present his resignation. The IRL bench should not be so short that it would not be possible to replace an incompetent minister with a bit more robust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U77	Thank you very much. Next, please, call chair to the Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U78	Ladies and gentlemen, In recent years, world interest in oil shale has grown. In three years' time, in October 2016, we will celebrate the passing of a hundred years when the first three cars went to St. Petersburg to heat this city. But if we come back to today and talk about oil shale mining problems and prospects in Estonia, we should talk about four large blocks that should be discussed in greater detail. The first block is resource conservation; the second block is oil shale mining and consumption demand; the third is ecology, the ecological safety of mining, and the fourth is the urgent need for underground shale processing technology and renovation. I'll start with the first one: resources, resource conservation. According to Professor Enno Reinsalu, our oil shale field has been taken out of the ground during its period of operation by a maximum of one billion tons of industrial oil shale. The residual stock is estimated at 4.8 billion tonnes, with an active share of 1.3 billion tonnes, including 0.3 billion active reserves. As you can see, oil shale mining, taking into account, in particular, the underground mining method, can take account of the perspective for at least 40 years and also of the estimated fact that I would like you to listen carefully to this figure! just 40% of oil shale goes into technological losses. Although specialists estimate that oil shale will continue for at least 50 years, the problem of oil shale savings is very topical. In this respect, it should be noted that the share of underground mining, which is projected to lose 40% of technology for 10 years, should reach 60-85%. Second block: oil shale mining and consumption demand. Since 1981, when the annual production of oil shale was 31 million tonnes, a steady decrease is observed. According to the generalized forecasts, the annual volume of production was 10 to 12 million tonnes, but in 2012 annual production was 16 million tonnes and, based on applications from chemical energy companies, production will increase to nearly 20 million tonnes in 2017 and 26 million tonnes in 2021. It should be borne in mind that in the last 40 years since the start of the Estonia mine, no new mines and careers have been designed and, consequently, opened, which belong to the flag of Eesti Energia. Overall, at the beginning of 2013, it appears that only 80% of the oil shale needs will be met, I am thinking of two active power plants. And it's started to build a new station. In view of the prospective output of the operating company, the start-up Ojamaa mine does not exceed 17 million tonnes of oil shale during the next four years. Block 3: Ecology, ecological safety of mountain operations. Brussels, i.e. the European Union's ecological strategy, prioritises the development of alternative energy sources, including gas and hydrogen, as well as fuel cells. Without new technologies that can guarantee 100% environmental safety, the positive future of the Estonian oil shale field can be called into question. So far, such a threat has been successfully avoided, but two negative consequences of underground oil shale mining are waiting for more than 40 years for a specific technical decision to be taken to renovate. I understand we're out of time. But we could talk more about it, so I'll do it next Monday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U79	Thank you very much. Next, please speak to Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U80	Madam President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to talk here about who, and what, promised in elections to reduce public utility costs, and also to lower electricity prices, has already been talked about and written about. I want to talk about the fact that the first month of this year, January, has ended and the budgetary authorities have underlined their electricity costs. What came out of it? Take the city of Narva, for example. For budgetary institutions, kindergartens, schools, cultural institutions and others, 20% more money was earmarked to cover electricity costs. Thus, the forecast increase in prices was not already low, at one fifth of previous year's prices. January showed that real costs were up to 40% higher than in January last year. That's a fact. And considering that for a whole of ten days, there was a break in schools, and there was no need to spend the full amount of money, it can be assumed that February will bring bigger bills. Perhaps not quite a good electricity package was chosen, although the Minister of Economic Affairs himself gave personal advice on how to choose the electricity package in Narva. Maybe he was wrong about his choice. Well, he doesn't know how yet. Of course, you can change the choice, but the increase is huge either way. Maybe kindergartens and schools use electricity inefficiently? The Minister for Economic Affairs has also stressed this issue, referring to the possibility of reducing electricity charges. At the same time, we know that kindergartens and schools must meet strict conditions and compliance is also very carefully monitored. It can't be said that these institutions have any way of circumventing the rules you're about to receive a precept. It can be said that kindergartens and schools are today at the threshold of minimum consumption, no less can be consumed. Also, some electrical equipment needs to be replaced, as well as light bulbs. New and ecological needs to be obtained. Looks like a small matter, but they're at least twice as much. There's the extra cost again! Where can I get money to cover the rising electricity costs because prices are rising so suddenly? At the expense of what or who? Of course, local authorities must manage and somehow find this money, but it cannot be infinitely the case that the consequences of such changes fall only on the shoulders of local authorities. The Government of the Republic must also do something to reduce electricity prices and reduce utilities costs. Specific steps should be taken in this direction, starting with a reduction in excise duty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U81	Thank you very much. I'm asking for Kadri Samson's speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U82	Ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen of the Riigikogu sitting! At tomorrow's session, this Riigikogu will be discussing the third reduction in the excise duty added to the price of electricity. Since 2008, Estonia is known to have an electricity excise duty that exceeds 4.5 times the minimum rate established in the European Union. If the European Union says that an excise duty of at least EUR 1 per megawatt-hour must be added to the price of electricity, then in Estonia this rate is 4.47. When, for the first time in this Chamber of the Riigikogu, we raised the issue that the transition to a free electricity market will lead to price increases and must be contained, it was 2011. Large companies had just moved to a free electricity market, and our proposal was that if electricity prices were to rise, this shock could be softened by reducing additional taxes. Then our proposal was improved by objecting to what we are relying on if we confirm that opening up the electricity market will lead to price increases. Juhan Parts in the Riigikogu Hall confirmed that there are also scenarios that electricity will be cheaper. A year later, when large companies had already operated on stock exchange prices for a year, it was evident that the price had not decreased. We have re-initiated the draft reduction of electric excise duty. The last arguments remained at the end of last year and culminated in quite a few nights of meetings. It was already clear that from 1 January there was a very large increase in the price of electricity for small and medium-sized businesses and that we wanted to press the majority of the Riigikogu to look at this problem and reduce the price increase by reducing the excise duty. At the end of last year, we were told that there was no need to change the electricity excise duty because there are other ways, for example, renewable energy prices could be reduced. The reduction of the renewable energy fee in the manner proposed by the Minister for Economic Affairs, Juhan Parts, would have had half the effect of lowering the electricity excise duty. The Minister for Economic Affairs proposed that the renewable energy fee could be reduced from EUR 0,97 cent per kilowatt-hour to EUR 0,8 cent. It is probably appropriate to say that this reduction in the renewable energy charge has not reached anything. The day after tomorrow, it will arrive in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, where the procedure for this draft will be suspended again. It's left in the drawer for an indefinite period. But renewable energy charges do not fall in themselves. And there are already calls from the Ministry of Finance about reducing renewable energy charges to a much smaller amount, i.e. not another 0.8 euro cent, but to 0.87. The reduction in excise duty that we have proposed could have been done quickly. It does not need a European Union permit. The change in the renewable energy charge requires the authorisation of state aid from the European Union and it is not known when it will come. The main thing is that the budget of the Estonian state has won significantly from the increase in electricity prices, as, in addition to increasing the electricity tariff and increasing the network charges by 13%, the electricity excise duty has remained the same, i.e. 4.5 times as the European Union requires. The renewable energy charge has remained the same. The fact that VAT has increased by nearly one tenth due to price increases has added to higher electricity prices and higher network charges. So instead of reducing the price increase to the public by reducing public taxes, it has been decided to benefit more from the price increase. And by looking at the progress made in changing the price of renewable energy, it seems that this gain is the goal and that it is not advisable to soften the cost of electricity. But tomorrow, the Riigikogu will discuss the reduction of excise duty again. Three are the law of the courts, and I hope that the third time the allies of the government will also understand that something must be done. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U83	Thank you. Call chair, Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U84	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Colleagues! Good watchers! When we discussed the reform of primary schools and upper secondary schools at length last week, Minister Aaviksoo tried to convince us, and he has also confirmed in his interviews that this draft does not, in principle, require the separation of primary and secondary schools. If a little does, maybe only in the long run. With that kind of talk, it may be possible for some people to tranq. I attended the round table discussion in Võru last week. The same debate has been held in Järvamaa and elsewhere in Central Estonia, currently it is in Põlva. I'm not talking about the tension in Tartu. We discussed the future of comprehensive schools and upper secondary schools with local people at the Võru Round Table, especially in an area where there are both primary schools 1. up to class as well as comprehensive school upper secondary schools 1. to class, maybe a few separate upper secondary schools with only 10th, 11, 12th. Interestingly, all those who sat at the table supported pluralism. They find it nice to have a parent to choose whether to put a child in a smaller comprehensive school, with smaller classes and perhaps giving more attention to the special needs of each child. Such a school has the necessary support structures. Some schools, however, are more focused on upper secondary schools and universities, and they can be studied at 1.12. to class. Each debate will finally have a moment when it is up to us to decide whether or not to go on with a clean upper secondary school. In the four meetings I have had in the last few weeks, the main and only argument has been only one fact. In the last days of December, the Ministry of Education and Research sent a very clear message to the municipalities that in the next five years only the municipalities and schools that have allocated upper secondary school will receive money. If you ask the local people about this, they say no, no, of course we don't want to divorce the 10th, 11th and 12th grade. We have problems with the burden of teachers, we do not know how to organise the work of professional teachers. And we already know our students and their families. When the 10th grade brings together a whole new group, we will not be able to create the necessary social support structures for them. There's a lot of proguments. But the main counter-argument is that otherwise, the Ministry will not give the investment money. My question is: what and how are we discussing here in the Riigikogu? Educational arguments are not arguments; the arguments of local people are not arguments. The only argument is that somewhere in the back room of Isamaa, someone decided that the coolest thing he'd like to write in his name was to create pure upper secondary schools. And only for that purpose will he give European money for the next five years. Perhaps in 2015 local authorities will be able to explain their platform. What Aaviksoo said here last week is a lie, to put it mildly. With these investments, it is imposing its own platform. I hope that the members of the Riigikogu will know this background when discussing the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U85	Thank you very much. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U86	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I too cannot miss the price of electricity and its impact on Estonian electricity consumers. Basically, there has been talk about domestic consumers, but very little about local governments and small and medium-sized enterprises. There's a simple way to lower the price of electricity. As has already been said, this is an electricity excise duty, which may seem rather small to have an effect on the household consumer at EUR 15.1 7 per year, but in the old money it will make 250.2 300 kroons and say that it is small money, and I do not dare. Those who claim to be living relatively well. Another thing that is always being said: a rapid reduction in renewable energy charges could significantly lower the price of electricity. I think the current political situation is that a change in the rate of renewable energy will not get anywhere. The draft will remain in the Riigikogu drawers because the coalition will not reach a consensus. As far as I know, there is also a message from the European Union that these fees cannot be reduced according to the principle of legitimate expectations. You can't break a deal. In my opinion, the fastest and most efficient way to reduce electricity costs is by slowing down the rapid growth of network charges. In such a short period of time, so much investment to this extent is, in my opinion, not right only by increasing network charges. If money was needed for investments, the state would have had to withdraw less dividends from Eesti Energia or otherwise, to direct Elering for investments. This would have been an important victory, which would have allowed the price of electricity to be kept down. Our people are not rich and their solvency is not so great that they will suffer huge investments in a very short period of time. There's nothing to do when there's a big storm, then in some cases there's gotta be some time without electricity. This is not just Estonia's problem. Also in rich countries, such as Finland and Sweden, when there is a storm, we hear on the news that 20,000 to 30,000 households are without electricity. No back-up security can be guaranteed, because the price is too high. At the same time, it is possible to recover electricity efficiently and operationally after the storm. Electricity prices have a very direct impact on local authorities. Local authorities have lost again as their additional electricity costs are not reflected in their budgets. In the mid-range of 20 to 25%, local authorities will have to take into account the additional costs associated with the increase in electricity prices this year. It's not a small amount of money. If you sum up the total electricity cost of the municipality, it's quite a lot of money. Schools, kindergartens, libraries, hobbies, sports buildings, etc., in addition to street lighting. If you add up this cost and put it up to 20%, it's just not possible to cover it. It is now the situation that we are seeing semi-blind towns and smaller settlements, because the municipalities have no money for lighting. It is not normal in today's Europe that we need to stick together on the most elementary side of the road - I think that street lighting is an elementary part. People must be able to navigate safely. And the second issue that has been discussed today is the direct effect of the increase in electricity prices. I'm gonna need a few more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U87	You won't be able to get more time. There's five minutes in the free microphone round. So next time. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U88	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On the day after the anniversary of the Republic and on the days before the anniversary of the Republic and on the anniversary of the Republic itself, Estonia is still being discussed and thought about what this Estonian thing is. People of Estonia, the leadership of the Estonian state and the heads of state are thought of. I was also thinking about how things are understood so differently that for one party, Estonia is about helping people, managing them, managing them daily, but for the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, Estonia is about sticking up billboards and producing billboards. I began to wonder what was really behind this 'Time Estonia' thing at the IRL. The list of their so-called sins became quite long. I am not talking about the scandal on residence permits, the sale of residence permits, Iron or Stelmachi, nor is it about how the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher, has wanted to place his long-standing party partner Priit Kama as Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board. I am talking about concrete examples of what has been done over the last few or three years, mainly under the leadership of the Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance, though in the coalition with the Reform Party. But at least part of the Reform Party has recognised its mistakes and has not put on posters full of Estonia how they do Estonia's business. I also received help from a website like the Patriotic League. The Reform Party. information that the good people of Estonia have written down, what the Fatherland and Res Publica Union have actually done to help the Estonian people. Maybe a few examples, I can't read everything out in time. The overall increase in VAT from 18% to 20%, increasing all prices. The increase in indoor VAT from 5% to 20%, mainly increasing domestic costs and hitting homeowners particularly hard. I am reminding you here of the IRL slogan 'Home expenses' below. You sure win! '. The increase in VAT on accommodation services from 5% to 20%, affecting tourism and tourist accommodation companies. The increase in VAT on concerts, sports events, performances, museums and cinema tickets from 5% to 20%, which hurts sports associations and sports workers, cultural businesses and cultural consumers. The rise in VAT on funeral services from 5% to 9%, which mainly hurts pensioners, the unemployed and other poorer groups of society. Increase in VAT on books and textbooks from 5% to 9%, increase in excise duties on natural gas, introduction of excise duties on packaging, increase in electricity excise duties. As we know, the European Union is calling for an electricity excise duty of at least EUR 1 per megawatt-hour; in Estonia it is EUR 4.47 per megawatt-hour. Petrol excise duty has increased by 36% compared to 2007, which has contributed to other price increases. More than 50% of the price of fuel is excise duty and VAT, which the government controls and can reduce if it wants to relieve the pressure on the price increase. When submitting the tax return, the interest on the student loan, the union membership fee and the donations made to the parties can no longer be deducted from the income. This mainly hurts current and future student borrowers. Under the management of the IRL, much sickness and care benefits were cut, which hits small businesses particularly hard and worsens the health protection of all workers. They increased their participation in care care, lost dental care benefits, reduced the local government's income base by reducing the income tax they receive from 11.93% to 11.40%, which limits the ability of local authorities to provide public services and help those in need. Under the management of the IRL, a new Employment Contracts Act was adopted which significantly limits the social security of workers, facilitates dismissal and disproportionately increases the employee's liability. The state's contributions to the second pillar of pensions were suspended, which mainly hurt future pension beneficiaries, and the retirement age was raised to 65 by 2026. It hurts the most in retirement. The pension was completed free of charge at home. My time is up, but you see, I barely made it to half the list. Next Monday, I can continue this list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U89	Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U90	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. My colleague, Priit Toobal, began reading here a list so long that the Lord's sun would set before he could finish it. However, when you look at what is happening in Estonia recently and at how we are moving towards our goal of becoming one of the richest five countries, it seems that not only the Lord's sun, but the whole world will run out before we get there. You know, sometimes I think there's a very interesting connection between things. Before the price of electricity rose dramatically, we somehow developed this great electric car boom. Came in electric cars was very favorable and modern new technology, buy everything! And please, the price of electricity went up. Interestingly, usually young people quickly adopt all kinds of fun apps to push buttons and play some new game, use new technology to show how smart and advanced they are. Somehow the electric car hasn't been accepted. As far as I know, there must be only one private person in Estonia who bought an electric car. I don't know what the point is, but there's a lot of different people. I guess it was the kind of person who needed an electric car for some reason. I don't know if he's using it at home instead of a sewing machine or, I don't know, whipped cream. In general, we have people in electric cars who are not guilty of anything, mostly social workers. Unfortunately, I almost got into an accident this winter because of one of those social workers. I'm driving my job across from the Russian church. There's an electric car in front of one of the intersections, there's a green light, but the windows are absolutely frosty. It's just a little look in the tank, really narrowly rubbed clean. Sitting there on the face of an aunt immediately reveals that such a wise, caring, heartfelt person. A social worker, I guess. Hairy hat pulled onto your head, warm paws with national prints! In his hand, he breathes into the window and sweeps the same slot from which you can look out. Of course, I stayed to watch, almost hit the others. That's a pretty interesting sight! Now to think that electric cars will soon have to replace all the high-speed chargers, because there will be a new socket standard, then yes, that's how we're going to move well where we're going. Three things are important to people. It's not my fiction, there's population surveys all over the world. It turns out that the most important thing for people is personal security, as interesting as it may be. The second is health, and only the third is economic prosperity, or the existence of money. How are we doing on these three things? Personal safety means not only that you are threatened with being killed on the street, but also that you are able to cope well with your life, that you have a normal job, that you are paid, that you are able to meet your needs without having to steal. However, it is the case that young people do not see the perspective in Estonia, they do not see the future, they run away, they go away to Australia. But believe me, there's no better. They're gonna write from there, so look around on Facebook for a little bit! There are, and there are people who write about their great adventures in Australia, but they come back from there as poor as they went, and they don't find happiness there. Health is what it is. Health costs money, not everyone has it. Now that the future health agreement was signed, it was signed without personnel. So we are going towards our future, where there are certain taxes to be paid, where there is a budget that is kept in balance, not to mention that there are also tears of children in this budget and the shame of those old people who have to shake their hands in the hope of receiving social support. And what's positive there? The positive thing is that you and I are going to last, we're going to last, we're going to get our right, and one day we're going to win anyway. Good luck to you all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-25_U91	Thank you very much. Any more calls? No more calls, today's agenda is exhausted. I wish everyone a beautiful evening. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 5.03 p.m.
