ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister and other members of the government. Let's start today's briefing. Please, let's do the presence check! 43 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 58 are missing. The following members of government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Since today we have four questions registered, I can allow each of them, in the round of quick fingers, to ask three questions registered on the spot.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U2	The first is the question by my colleague, Mailis Reps, to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U3	Prime Minister! In the case of higher education reform, there has been a great deal of talk about needs-based learning support, while the recognition and support of successful students has been quite excluded from the range of topics. If we try to analyse the Government of the Republic regulation in coordination, we can see that the explanatory memorandum states that in the spring semester of 2014, 100 particularly capable students will receive a performance grant of 320 euros per month. As head of the cabinet, what do you personally think, are only those 100 students worthy of recognition? And how do you plan to select these 100 students by university and by specialty?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U4	To begin with, the need-based learning allowance will double the amount of study grants. Thus, students receive twice as much grants as they received under the former system. These grants are needs-based and must ensure that young people have access to education. In addition, the Ministry of Education and Research and the Government as a whole are planning to introduce results grants. These are the ones you asked about. How much of their volume will be exactly, time will show. It is also planned to introduce professional scholarships paid to students studying in the fields most desired by the state, such as teachers. The aim is to pay a professional scholarship to about 10% of students. Outcome grants should be seen in particular as the recognition of the most outstanding students on the basis of learning outcomes. These scholarships should guide the professional choices of young people. However, the most widespread use is on a needs-based scholarship, and I think it is working quite well right now. I repeat once again: the volume of need-based education grants exceeds twice the amount of support paid under the old system.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U5	Please, my colleague, Mailis Reps, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U6	Good minister! Indeed, any recognition of particularly talented young people is very justified. It does not make sense, however, how exactly this rather narrow circle can be selected. But if you already mentioned the need-based support, we will remember together: when we worked out the higher education reform here in cooperation with the Riigikogu and the government, it was suggested that there will be about 5200 students in Estonia who will receive needs-based education support. Even the most optimistic reading of the budget does not show that there are more than 2,300 recipients. What is the big difference?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U7	The student must apply for needs-based education allowance. If the number of applicants is lower than forecast, there may be several reasons. One reason may be that there have been no grounds for applying, but it is also possible that there is not enough awareness of the possibility of applying for need-based education support, they have not been advertised enough. In my opinion, many institutions of higher education have not all I have been able to check for detailed instructions on how to apply for this refund. However, there is a possibility that many students who are entitled to need-based education support have not applied for it. Consequently, students need to be better informed and I know that in several Estonian universities this process is currently taking place. It is certain that the legislator, i.e. the honourable Riigikogu, has foreseen money to pay for needs-based grants: in addition to the earlier 8.8 million euros, 3.3 million euros have been allocated. So there will be no more need-based disbursements behind the lack of money.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U8	Please, my colleague, Mailis Reps, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U9	Good Prime Minister! I come from higher education to general education with my second point of clarification, namely that of general education. If we look at the budget for next year, it is clear that there is no promised increase in teachers' salaries. Minister Aaviksoo has called out a 12% raise, but the budget has a slightly more than 5% increase. To clarify, the Minister told us last week that the rest of the guarantee will be subject to redeployment and a new financing model. Have you had any discussion in the government office about whether, in the case of a new financing model or next year's budget, there will be some funding available for support services, i.e. logopaedics, specialist teachers, school psychologists and teachers of children with special needs?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U10	The principle, yes, also provides for the provision of support services. The exact size of these will be specified during the discussions. We now know that in Estonia, support services are considerably more expensive than teachers' salaries than in our neighbouring country, Finland, for example. The minimum wage for teachers is currently EUR 715 per month, and this minimum rate will rise to EUR 800 per month according to the new budget. Let it be said that funding for one teacher's position will increase by as much as 20% from next year's budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U11	We will proceed with the issue registered on the ground. Like I said, they can be presented in three. Colleagues Heimar Lenk, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U12	Prime Minister! In the last Question Time, I asked you about the financing of the construction of Valga and Põlva State Gymnasium, and you replied that this funding would come. You also mentioned a few years. I have met voters in Valga City and it has become clear that your answer was astonishing to the local population. Even some politicians have said at meetings with the people that they should give up the agreement with the Ministry of Education because it has not been specifically stated when Valga will receive money for the state gymnasium. Please, can you be more specific about the year in which Valga City could receive money for state secondary school?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U13	Of course, I'm really glad you think my memory is so good. But if I knew all the lines of the state budget by date and amount, I could claim the title of chess champion or some other very high-ranking title. Unfortunately, I do not have such a good memory, and I certainly do not want to start proposing to the legislator about some amount of funding and timetables. If you have a serious interest in giving your voters an exhaustive and concrete answer, you should address the Minister of Education and Research separately or me, and you will receive an answer containing precise dates and exact amounts of money.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U14	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U15	Mr Prime Minister! Once again, students. The Estonian Student Association is of the opinion that the payment of a result scholarship could be more extensive. They estimate that this scholarship could be around EUR 100 per month. If we do the calculation, we will see that in this case 320 successful students will receive this support. Why does the government consider that only a small number of absolute peaks should be supported, who receive a wide range of scholarships from the private sector to finance their studies?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U16	I do not believe that I am the right person to say whether the scholarship must be EUR 320 and the recipients must be 100 or the recipients must be 320 and each scholarship must be EUR 100. Experts, along with students, have probably been seriously addressing this issue, and that is where this particular decision has come from. It doesn't matter from the point of view of the state budget, the money costs the same amount. This is purely a matter of recognition of peaks, how many and how much to support. I do not consider myself a very good specialist on this issue, so I would not give my opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U17	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U18	Prime Minister! It's election week, and I'd like to educate the voters. My question concerns promises made to people. Valdo Randpere, a candidate for the mayor of Tallinn, who belongs to your party, has said that he would probably keep free public transport in Tallinn. You have said that if the Reform Party takes over the city, it will definitely be abolished. Randpere has also said that he would double the pension supplement paid by the Centre Party in Tallinn to pensioners. The Minister of Finance sitting next to you has said that this is not a very good idea. How is it really? What are your party's views on these two issues in the management of the city of Tallinn? I think that educating voters is very important, and this too should be the subject of education policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U19	Sorry, however, we are talking about education policy. We need to understand what started after your colleague, Mailis Reps, this is education policy, not the education of voters. The education of voters is probably the work of all of us, but I think education policy is still another matter. However, if the Prime Minister wishes to respond, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U20	If a honourable member of the Riigikogu asks me, I guess I'll answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U21	Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U22	The case of free public transport is that the world has seen the loss of consumer control over services that are free, and most of the quality of services goes down quite quickly. This can already be observed in the public transport of Tallinn. There is almost no demand for consumers, because if you do not pay, if it is as if it is free, then you cannot demand, even though in essence the public has paid off all these free services. Usually these services just fade away. I have already repeatedly recalled the almost free public transport of Tbilisi, which eventually led to the absence of streets to ride on omnibuses, and there were no buses to drive on these streets. But it was all free! There was almost free electricity, too, until eventually the city of Tbilisi had electricity only three hours a day. The difference between me and Valdo Randpere is just a time definition. I have not said that if the Reform Party wins the election, free public transport will disappear immediately. If I had run for mayor of Tallinn, I think the idea that Postimees is manipulating is absurd, then I would lose it. I wouldn't let this agony go on for long and too much damage. But Valdo Randpere thinks that let it come to its natural end in the natural process, and people will probably recognize that there is no such thing as free. We are now in this free state promotion phase, where free public transport is offered, they want to distribute free food, someone shares free laptops, then iPade, irons, whatever, everything free. That's not possible!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U23	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U24	We will now proceed with the question of Helmen Hunt to Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U25	Honourable Minister of Finance! From 1 April 2014 the pension will rise by 5.8%, which is also included in the 2014 state budget. The pension didn't go up during the recession, but it didn't. In certain subsequent years, the pension could not rise according to the estimated coefficient, but increased less. Please tell me whether the 2014 pension increase of 5.8% is exactly the coefficient or if it is less than would have been calculated!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U26	This is still a post-coefficient rise and you have actually exhausted this issue with your question. However, if you still have doubts, it is precisely this know-how that I cannot say this for every area of the group.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U27	Please, Mr Küttt, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U28	Honourable Minister of Finance! However, this is Question Time and the know-how that exists in the group is not relevant to the issues that are being put forward today in the Chamber. But I'm gonna ask you something else. This is about what was published in the Eesti Päevaleht yesterday. Olev Kool, who has worked in Estonia for more than 20 years, receives a pension of 250 euros for this work. Working in Finland for more than 20 years also gives him a pension on which he pays income tax. Now he's got a letter from our tax office telling him he's supposed to pay taxes like double. According to the proportionality principle, he should pay EUR 456 for the pension he has earned in Finland. The Estonian pension is not tax-free. Would you mind commenting on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U29	Thank you. To be honest, I arrived tonight on a plane to Estonia and I am not familiar with everything that the Estonian press has written in the meantime. That's the story I saw in the corner of my eye, and I shook my shoulders. I don't understand exactly what's being asked for. This is a very simple principle of fiscal engineering that the tax burden is proportionately shared. Where there is a problem and what is the proposal, it is difficult to assess. In general, there is no reason to expect that we will spend more on those whose pension is higher than the Finnish taxpayer. I can try to deal with this article yet, but I don't have any more to say right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U30	Please, Mr Küttt, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U31	The question to be clarified concerns the same subject. Member of the Board of the Estonian Taxpayers' Association, Doctor of Law Lasse Lehis has commented on this. It states that the pension should not be taxed on a proportional basis. If you read the same comment, the part of the Estonian pension cannot be deducted from the taxable income in Finland and therefore there is no limit. And, as a remark, so much more so that according to our internal information, the pension should still have risen 0.3% more in Estonia next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U32	Once again, this is the way you ask about what someone said. It's hard for me to comment on what Lasse Lehtis thinks. He has very reasonable views, but there are also those that are aimed not at strengthening the tax system but at tax avoidance. This is his role as a leading figure in the taxpayers' union, and so he has interpreted it. I'm in a different position. In my opinion, the state must receive money from somewhere and the tax exemptions do not create this money and the general good. You are certainly the representative of this political direction, who believes that the country should have the money to support the weaker. And if one person receives a Finnish pension, as I understand it, I do not think that he is the most vulnerable and that his taxes should be reduced in any way at the expense of others.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U33	Let us now go to the issues registered on the ground. Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U34	Honourable Minister of Finance! In Estonia, the pension has been smaller for the last five or six years than the coefficient for calculating it should have been. However, my question concerns the attitude of the coalition towards pension policy, the extent to which you have it in common. The question is motivated by what is set out in the news on 9 October. Priit Sibul, a member of the Group of the Parliament of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, has said directly that the Estonian pension system is unsustainable and people should not be impressed by the annual increase in pensions. Now listen to the following sentence: 'The news about the 5.8% pension rise and worse than the local government promises to add anything to it makes it sad. ' That's a pretty strange point of view! What's the coalition's position anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U35	Now, after all this time, I forgot to start. In your introduction, you had some very strange contention, I'm trying to remember, I'd like to comment. What about the one where you got to? What can I say? I'm not Priit Onion.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U36	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U37	Minister of Finance! As we know, our country's pensions are extremely small and it is difficult for the people to cope. Many municipalities have decided to pay people pension supplements. Examples include the city of Tallinn, the city of Põlva and other municipalities. Valdo Randpere, the candidate for the mayor of Tallinn, has promised to double the pension supplement in Tallinn. As Minister of Finance, how do you comment on such a move? Do you approve?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U38	I was now reminded of what your colleague said earlier. I have to comment on that, too. It is not true that the pension has been paid less than the coefficient would have been for five years. More was paid in 2010 and 2011 and you should be aware of this as a long-term member of the Social Committee. As for Valdo Randper's words, I'd like to see the black in white, which you're asking about. I know in itself that he has reminded the Centre Party of the promise of four years ago to double the pension supplement that Tallinn pays and also played there with some of these comparisons. It's like I remember it. He also said that he would lose mypo, Tallinn TV and all this propaganda apparatus, and it would really make more sense to double the pension supplement in the city. What do I have against that statement? Eliminating this kind of crap is essential anyway, and if there's money left, it can be used in different places. Well, that's over the money then, isn't it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U39	I would like to ask you now for the last issue registered on the ground, Mr Allik.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U40	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Your debate with Helmen Hunt left one question in the air: is this 5.8% pension rise exactly what the law should be, or was Helmen Hunt right, who said that according to the law the increase should be 0.3% higher? Maybe you'll be more specific.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U41	The law accounts for 5.8%. After all, this depends on the minimum of the 2010 and 2011 index, which was 1, which meant additional costs and which is then amortised. I guess you know that. I think this demand for an ever-mobile from me is a little unfair. Somewhere, however, there are real figures, as well as the pension law with its own compensation mechanism.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U42	Thank you very much, Minister. Let us stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U43	Please, the next question is from my colleague, Kadri Samson, to Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U44	Minister of Finance! At the beginning of this year, four political parties represented in Parliament had a heated debate about who first came up with the idea that next year the tax-free minimum should be increased. You were one of the loudest participants in the debate and said that it was you who first said that the tax-free minimum, which has been frozen for six years, should be increased from next year. Please recall the arguments on which you were convinced that next year it would be the right year to increase the tax-free minimum to over EUR 144 per month.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U45	There's a lie in your question. I have not made any promises about the tax-free minimum for next year, as you consistently say. However, I did reply in an interview where I was asked about graduate income tax, that it is actually a question of small wages and the tax burden on small wages. Unfortunately, I do not have it literally in front of the text, but I referred to one proposal that did not fit into the coalition agreement and the money for which has been spent on other things. And in my opinion, this money has not been spent for the worse. It was in our election program, but unfortunately it didn't make it to the coalition agreement. I don't generally like to refer to a coalition agreement. The point is, the four-year financial plan is a four-year financial plan. There's a lot of spending on this plan all the time, and you might not be able to instigate anything by force. Increasing the tax-free minimum is an extremely expensive method. As for who first came up with the idea, this year I was indeed the one, but I am not, of course, the inventor of this measure, although I have been involved in many previous increases.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U46	Please, Mr Simson, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U47	Minister of Finance! You mentioned that increasing the tax-free minimum would help to reduce the tax burden on people on low wages. This has not been done for six years; instead, consumption taxes have been raised, which places an extra burden on people earning a small wage. Politics is a matter of choice, and the government has gone this way to reduce the rate of income tax and thus to further increase inequality in society. The Centre Party Group has suggested that if you think the country is so wealthy in 2015 that it can save people money by taking less income tax, instead of reducing the income tax rate, the tax-free minimum should be increased to the same extent for all working people. Why do you not support such a proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U48	As far as the income tax rate is concerned next year, it is set by law, like many other costs. You want to stress the role of the Centre Party here, but I still recall the price of your election promise. It was one and a half billion euros, or far greater, even more than twice what was promised by the Sots. It is clear that if we had started to keep these promises, we should have rebuilt the whole country by cutting it. That's right. Separately, our programme was feasible for the country, there are always some compromises in the coalition agreement, and you are also familiar with their content.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U49	Please, Mr Simson, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U50	Minister of Finance! If you were fair to the tax-free minimum, you would say that the one who wants to turn Estonia into Greece is the IRL, after all, he promised to increase the tax-free minimum by 500 euros each month. Greece is aware that the tax-free minimum is 5000 euros per year; we only have 144 euros per month here in Estonia. In a very modest step, the Centre Party has proposed how people with low wages can be relieved of excessive tax burdens. You said it had to be in the law. What year will you expect an increase in the tax-free minimum and when will you hand over this bill to be written in the law?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U51	I'll tell you when that chance comes. After all, the controversy about the various costs goes on all the time. I'll make a little reference to history. It's kind of embarrassing to listen to some sort of broken promise all the time. In principle, the coalition agreement does not allow this; there are many other things allowed. Secondly, we actually had Greece in 2003. I say it was a coalition mistake. You didn't belong to the coalition, but there was an insane increase in the tax-free minimum within a few years, perhaps from EUR 1 000 to EUR 3 000 in four years. That's what we're eating now. In principle, the share of the tax-free minimum in overall income is currently at pre-2003 levels. I don't dare say exactly the year right now. This share increased disproportionately quickly, was not feasible and had to be stopped. I repeat, we are eating this fruit now. We need to be smarter and not to do Greece. As far as the Greek tax system is concerned, it is being reformed, but under no circumstances do I recommend setting an example.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U52	Now, the questions registered on the spot. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U53	Good Mr. Ligi! In fact, the Prime Minister gave you misinformation. I can say that, for example, this year, when the pension was increased by 5%, it could have been increased by 6.3%, and one year it was quite frozen. However, the government has always commented on this with the words: 'But during the crisis, we did not reduce our pension! ' But that's what it is. My question concerns the concerns of people with disabilities. Yesterday I met these people and it turned out that the grant for the acquisition of prostheses and other aids would be more than EUR 500000 less than this year for the following year. A total of EUR 5297000 is foreseen for the following year, with an amount of EUR 5839000 in 2013. There has also been more money in the last three years. Why is it being pulled off?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U54	I think you and Priit Kutser meet a lot. But if you want to talk about some specific budget lines, warn me first, I'll check these figures first. I don't have a budget ahead of me. Nobody has cut disability benefits. But I will also answer Kadri Samson's question to the other side. The key to increasing the well-being of people on low wages is not to lose taxes. On the contrary, they are more winners if taxes are maintained, because the tax is levied on others than on them. Everything we have done with the tax system has been aimed at wage increases. The growth-friendly system taxes consumption rather than revenues. This means investment, jobs, including high-paid jobs. If there are high-paid jobs in the economy, if they increase, then low wages will also rise. You are desperately trying to reallocate money and change the tax system in exactly the opposite direction to what the European Commission urges the countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U55	Please, colleague Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U56	Dear Minister, I have a question about tax policy. In today's Postimees, Tarmo Lausing, former vice-president of Tallinn City Council, describes that entrepreneurs in one municipality have been forced to obtain permission from the municipality for certain activities, to make donations or to make debts that are later written off, or to conclude fictitious advertising contracts, i.e. to make obligatory payments in order to obtain any service from the municipality. When will we start to include such compulsory payments in the tax burden? If we take such payments into account the tax burden, our tax burden will be much higher in some local governments than the official 33%.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U57	Thank you. We don't do that sometimes, but if power changes in the country, it's probably legalized. That's the practice. I'm not gonna rule it out.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U58	I would like to ask you the last issue registered on the ground, Mr Mailis Reps.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U59	Minister of Finance! First of all, I would like to make it clear that, indeed, when comparing this year's budget and the draft budget for the coming year, the support for the acquisition of prostheses, orthopaedics and other facilities for people with disabilities has decreased by EUR 500000. But my question is about tax policy. If, as a result of both the coalition agreement and the law adopted by coalition force in 2015, we again have a reduction in the income tax rate, is this also something to do with supporting interest schools? Can we hope that if there is so much money left over in 2015, there will be enough to honour the coalition agreement and support the education of interest?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U60	I wouldn't put it that way that there's no money left. Unfortunately, the budget still tends to be in deficit or at least under pressure rather than in surplus. However, the funds for recreational activities are available in the local governments' budget line. It is a function of the municipalities and, according to my information, it is quite successful in fulfilling it. This is also what Praxis thinks of, who has recently done a survey and found that the activities of the families are a very multi-pronged concern. Finding money for children's recreational education is not a problem for families; rather, it is a problem that it is not possible to engage physically. That's the problem with the little places. People also want to be better focused on areas related to the dynamic development of society, such as their specific proposal that money should be directed towards generating technical interest. There is no need to complain about the lack of support for recreational education in situations where, for example, music or other self- or craft activities are quite adequately funded. The question is whether the enthusiasts who carry these circles will continue. This very non-systematic financing in general should not be dispersed; we could still formulate targets and accurately assess the points of pain.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U61	Thank you very much, Minister. Let us stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U62	The next question is Mr Luigas, which is also for Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U63	Minister of Finance! In normal life, people often try to swindle the Tax and Customs Board and not pay taxes. It is now such a scandalous thing that the Tax and Customs Board has charged a tax on the border of a year from persons who should not have been. Yesterday, I asked the Minister of Justice how it is possible in Estonia that there is a so-called excise law, but, in short, we call it the Act on Excise Duty, according to which a passenger can bring fuel from Russia once a day, but the Tax and Customs Board explains that they have been given a verbal arrangement with other content. Whoever gave the order does not know that the black white cannot read it anywhere, yet there are people taxed on it who have crossed the border with fuel from Russia. Explain, please, how the Tax and Customs Board can not comply with the law and tax persons who cannot be taxed!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U64	I actually didn't understand what you were saying. If I understand anything about your initiatives, I have a strange feeling, even embarrassing, that your Riigikogu mandate justifies such campaigning against the tax administration in your eyes. You are working to ensure that Estonians take their money to Russia, that we receive tax-free goods and that gas stations are built there to kill off border trade on the Estonian side. In Russia, however, business would flourish. In Finland, by the way, the exact opposite is true. Finland's border entrepreneurs live very well because they focus on serving Russian tourists and not on transporting money to and from Russia. Just think a little about whether it's still a dignified political act, all these accusations of illegality, all the epithetes you're making in this Chamber, in the media, at a public meeting! The Tax Administration is not the enemy of the Estonian people; it has been a servant of the Estonian people. You guys be too!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U65	Please, Mr Luigas, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U66	Honourable Minister of Finance! I'll try to explain it to you again. There is a law that must be observed, and the law must also be enforced by the Tax and Customs Board. I asked the Minister of Justice yesterday whether the Tax and Customs Board had to comply with the law at the border, or whether it had to follow verbal orders. In this case, the Tax and Customs Board shall carry out oral arrangements at the border. Whoever gave them, no one knows where they come from, no one knows. Tax and customs officials can't explain it. In breach of the law, persons are taxed and money taken from them. Explain, please, which oral arrangements the Tax and Customs Board will act in this way!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U67	Once again, I don't know how to comment on rumors. You've been talking to them for a long time. If you have a specific complaint about a particular case, you can analyse it. My request is to fix such cases factually, not simply rhetorically. The IRS is complying with the law. It's my position. I have also spoken to the Chancellor of Justice about this matter, whom you have always quoted here as an exposure to the IRS. It's not true what you're saying. I repeat, the IRS is in compliance with the law. The fact that there are also some oral instructions in the management process cannot be ruled out in any way. But because the IRS is breaking the law, I'll rule that out.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U68	Please, Mr Luigas, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U69	Minister, thank you very much. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in Estonia, too, the Tax and Customs Board is breaking the law. The Tax and Customs Board must comply with the law. The law says that a passenger can bring fuel to Estonia tax-free no more than once a day. The Tax and Customs Board also taxes all those who come to Estonia for the second or third time in a month. Would you be so kind, Minister, to see what's going on in your administration? Perhaps you'd like to try to find out which oral arrangements the IRS does this. In part, the Tax and Customs Board has returned money to people. As an additional question, I might ask, " How do people get back all those tax amounts that have been smuggled in illegally from them? '
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U70	I always try to be a good minister, but you try to be such a good MP that you can still prove your claims. The Tax Administration complies with the law and there are several lawnmen dealing with cross-border movements of excise goods. The law says that excise duties on alcohol, tobacco and fuel apply in the Republic of Estonia. Those who consume alcohol, tobacco and fuel here will have to pay excise duty, and only exceptionally will people be met when crossing the border. They are opposed for practical reasons, not to allow them to carry cheap goods across borders with harmful side effects, as it was for years when border crossings were crowded. It killed our economy. This is still a problem in Narva, by the way. You don't go there. Your electoral district is in Southeast Estonia, there you are popular, right, but in Narva, this problem persists. We can't relax this process. The purpose cannot be to put into circulation duty-free goods either for own use or for sale. This is not the policy of the Estonian state and should not make people along the border depend on this economic interest.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U71	Now, one issue registered on the spot. Please, Mr Kalvi Tough!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U72	Good minister! I fully agree with you that we must earn from Russian tourists. It's a pleasure to see a lot of Russian license plate cars at Võru Shopping Centres. But if we look at our neighbouring countries, according to Finnish law, Russia can come and cross the border twice a month, so it does not have to pay any extra tax, in Lithuania and Latvia four times in a month, but our government bill provides for this once a month. How do you justify that? I think that permission to come to us once a month does not give us much opportunity to earn from Russian tourists.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U73	The direct budgetary impact of this provision is plus EUR 5 million. Plus 5 million! There are also expenditures in the budget against it, and you are, as a rule, criticising the fact that the budget has too little of these expenditures. So one side is financial, the other is what kind of entrepreneurship we want along the border. Is it really the case that the elected delegates are blindfolding that if they can keep driving across the border and come back with a full tank, and that smoke packs and bottles of wine have been transferred, life is good? This is not the key to a good life along the border. As far as tourism is concerned, however, because we have almost eliminated the border queues with our excise policy in South-East Estonia, the number of Russian tourists has indeed increased considerably by 30%. This is real entrepreneurship, it creates prosperity along the border.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U74	I will also stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U75	Ladies and gentlemen, we still have some time. If anyone wants to ask the ministers another question, you're gonna have to get your fingers to work fast! Please, Inara Luigas! And please tell me who you want to ask!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U76	My last question is to the Minister of Finance. Minister, you say that the border queues have been eliminated and this guarantees the flow of tourists to the country of Estonia. I am very much in favour of tourists really coming and leaving more money here, but with the current legislative amendment, you also want to limit the rights of tourists arriving in the country. That's how you do them a disservice. All these rules must also be met by a tourist, and this requires a lot of trouble. In fact, a tourist can only come to Estonia once a month by car full of fuel. The next time he has to fill out a declaration, and if he has not declared fuel in writing, he must suffer from the tax and customs authorities pumping fuel out of his car's tank, accurately measuring and taxing that amount. Do you really think this is how we're gonna increase the flow of tourists?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U77	You dramatize the state of things and create some utopian descriptions of the situation at the border. The number of tourists in South-East and North-East Estonia has increased considerably due to the fact that we have taken excise goods under better control and have introduced certain regulations. That's one thing, there's nothing to argue about. As regards the measurement of the fuel contained in the tank, this is not done on a massive scale. Besides, it can be done much easier, you don't have to pump fuel out of the tank. Well, what do I do? If your political success depends only on multiplying this issue, then I wish you success. However, I believe that the view of a member of the Riigikogu must be broader. You need to see the problems of local entrepreneurship. You need to see that such a back and forth screening for excise wins and for the rest of the taxpayers is not compatible with human dignity. The law provides that Estonian citizens pay excise duty on the consumption of certain goods. Only exceptionally, in terms of convenience, can deviations be allowed. Actually, you know that.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U78	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U79	I have a question for Andrus Ansip. Mr. Prime Minister! You once said a slogan that Estonia should be among the five richest European countries. Those words are still quoted in this Chamber. I, too, would very much like to live with you in a country that is among the five richest. Unfortunately, life shows something else. We are currently competing in this league, where there are five countries in Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Bulgaria and Albania. Of course I'd like to go further. The Estonian people are patient and people believe many things. For 2,000 years, the resurrection and kingdom of heaven have been believed. Would you say explicitly whether this slogan or spell or promise is still valid or taken off the agenda? When can we still get to where you've been trying to take us? When would that time come?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U80	I believe that the Estonian people will not take this goal off the agenda. This goal is worth pursuing. Compared to 1995, the Estonian economy has grown the fastest of the European Union's economies. That's a fact. You mentioned our southern neighbours Latvia and Lithuania in a somewhat derogatory context. I would put them in a commendable context. Today, when the European economy is not growing, but is shrinking, when times are uncertain, the fastest growth is precisely Latvia and Lithuania, but also the United Kingdom and Estonia. Estonia is among the first five in Europe, even now that we are not satisfied with our economic growth at all. If the country continues to be governed on the basis of peasantry, not populist day-to-day political considerations, then we will have great opportunities to make the most prosperous once. It was not guaranteed to Finns either, but with hard work they reached it. The same can be said of Norwegians. Even in the 1960s it was a relatively poor country, and now Norway is among the richest in the world. If we do not set high goals, we will hardly reach them. If every day we're saging to ourselves that we're a weak and poor and incompetent country standing on the edge of the abyss, then one day we'll find ourselves at the bottom of the abyss. I prefer to set high goals.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U81	Please, colleague Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U82	Prime Minister! If you look at the next and the next year, the key question for the future of education is what the school network will be, but certainly even more, what the ratio between teachers and pupils will be. You've discussed this in the government. A number of articles have been published on educational topics, and in addition to you, the Minister of Education and other members of the government have highlighted in several interviews the concern that the number of students has fallen very much, but not the number of teachers. What do you think this relationship is supposed to be like? If the number of students has doubled, should the number of teachers decrease as quickly in the coming years?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U83	As we know, Estonia has spent years on education as a percentage of gross domestic product as the most educational-friendly countries in the European Union. Estonia's expenditure on education as a percentage of gross domestic product is comparable to that of Cyprus, Sweden and Denmark. Again we have to say: in terms of the share of education expenditure, we are among the first five in the European Union. However, these high costs have not led to teacher satisfaction. For good reason, teachers are not satisfied with their small wages. It is a question of efficiency in the use of taxpayers' money. We have a set of standards, how many students must be in one grade at some age level, these standards should be respected. In this case, teachers' salaries would in some cases be at least one third higher, in others even more. The school network must be such as to ensure that the student is close to home in comprehensive school, while upper secondary school does not require the school to be close to home, where the quality of education is the most important. Following the principle of closeness to home cannot always guarantee good quality because it is not possible to hire the best professional teachers in a small upper secondary school to give all the subjects; it is possible to do so in a large upper secondary school. We can see from the practice of the best upper secondary schools in Estonia that it really is.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U84	Please, Mr Peep Aru!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U85	I see the Minister of Agriculture is sitting alone in the corner, and no one's asking him anything. I'm gonna fix that mistake. Good Minister, how is a very commendable undertaking developing, namely the transfer of the Rural Promotion Foundation to Viljandi?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U86	Thank you for your question. I used to feel like a decoy duck here. The moving of the Rural Promotion Foundation to Viljandi is progressing as planned. The preparatory work is currently underway, including the preparation of the building, as well as negotiations with staff on whether they are ready to do their work in a new location. The physical transfer of the entire establishment to Viljandi should take place in August next year. I do not see any obstacles at the moment that this scheme will not materialise. I really hope that's what's going to happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U87	I would like to ask you one last question, Mr Lember.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U88	I also had the idea of asking the Minister for Agriculture. Some time ago you spoke in this Chamber about tourism as part of the rural development plan. Since we are going to confirm the tourism development plan today, I will ask you this. Your message was that tourism is not a priority area; it does not make the people of Estonia rich. Why don't you comment more broadly on why you said that about tourism?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U89	You haven't quite understood my point. In the next period, we intend to make certain changes to support tourism within the framework of the rural development plan. During this period, 2007-2013, rural diversification, i.e. other non-agricultural entrepreneurship, was also supported. About half of the total volume of this measure went to support tourism and 90% to create new beds. In the next period, the creation of new beds will no longer be eligible. We believe that there should be a greater focus on the activities that, thanks to these beds, are possible and that allow for added value. I mean organizing various conferences, hiking trails, adventure parks, anything. The focus must be on activities, not on beds. In my opinion, there are more or less enough beds in rural areas and we should focus on activities that allow for greater added value. I recently visited the municipality of Albu. You can imagine a small town with a few hundred inhabitants, but there are 300 beds for tourists. 300 beds! So there is no shortage of beds, so we need to focus on action. That's what I was trying to express.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U90	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, our Question Time is over. Thank you, colleagues, for the questions. Thank you very much, Prime Minister and ministers, for your answer. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U91	Good afternoon, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. We will begin the fifth working week session of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Colleagues, it is now possible to pass on drafts and enquiries. Please, Mr Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U92	The Riigikogu Research Committee established by the Riigikogu decision of 12 March 2013 to determine the circumstances of processing and satisfying the VEB Foundation's claims has held 19 meetings and heard 26 people. In the course of this we have been able to hear new references to the persons and documents involved in these matters. The Commission would like additional time for the hearing of persons and for the examination of documents. The Commission will not be able to carry out further hearings and analysis of documents within the current deadline, as the Commission's working schedule is tight and the initially scheduled hearings cannot be omitted. According to the initial plan, the Commission had to submit a final report by 2 December 2013. At the same time as the Commission's work, the VEB Foundation is audited by the National Audit Office, which has planned to complete it by March 2014. In order to enable the Commission to use the results of the audit in its work, the Commission wishes to align its timetable with the audit schedule of the National Audit Office. We therefore submit a draft decision of the Riigikogu, the content of which is to extend the deadline for the work of the VEB Foundation Commission until 7 April 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U93	Thank you. I have adopted a draft decision on behalf of the Bureau. If it complies with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide on this procedure within three working days. Ladies and gentlemen, I will pass on the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: first, the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the general part of the Code of Economic Activities and other laws, initiated on 14 October, the Committee on Economic Affairs; second, the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act and the Consumer Protection Act, initiated on 14 October, the Committee on Economic Affairs; thirdly, the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on the Amendment of the VAT Act, initiated on 14 October, Leading Commission on Finance; fourthly, in the Government of the Republic. a Draft Tax Organisation Act, initiated on 14 October, and related amendments to other laws, Leading Commission, Committee on Finance; fifth, in the Government of the Republic. a draft law on the amendment of the Traffic Act and the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure, initiated on 14 October, commission of the Economic Commission; Sixth, in the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on the Amendment of the Act on the Grant of International Protection to Aliens, initiated on 14 October, and related to the amendment of other laws, Leading Commission, Committee on Constitutional Affairs; seventhly, in the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu. The draft decision of the Riigikogu " Appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Estonian Development Fund," presented on 15 October, was presented, the leading committee of the Economic Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, now is the time to take control of the presence. 82 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, none 19. Let's go to today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U94	The first item on the agenda is the second reading of the draft Act 466 on the ratification of the Treaty on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion and related protocol initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic of Estonia and the United Mexican States. I would like to ask Mr Laurson, Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U95	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed draft Act 466 on the ratification of the Treaty on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion and the accompanying protocol with regard to income taxes between the Republic of Estonia and the United Mexican States at its meeting on 8 October. No amendments were received within the deadline. The Commission took the following consensual decisions: to put the draft on the agenda on Wednesday 16 October, to close the second reading and to put it to a final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U96	Thank you very much, Mr Laurson. There's a question for you too. Please, Mr Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U97	Honourable waitress! Such double taxation agreements have been adopted here in the Riigikogu. [[In the diner.]] It doesn't look like the Riigikogu can hear what you're saying on the remote. My question is whether these'standard contracts' are drafted on a copy-paste basis or whether they also have country-specific points. Does this draft differ in any way from the other double taxation treaties that we have ratified here?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U98	In general, they are indeed relatively similar, but in the case of this draft, I would point out that equipment used in agriculture and forestry in livestock, for example, is also regarded as real estate in Mexico. There are certain very specific differences in each country; in the case of Mexico they are.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U99	Please, my colleague Mart Nutt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U100	Honourable waitress! A great deal of economic activity in the European Union has been delegated to the European Commission at EU level. This has not been the case so far in double taxation agreements. But is it intended to create a situation in which, on behalf of the European Union, double taxation agreements are concluded with third countries by the European Commission and, in this case, they would apply in the same way in all Member States?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U101	This was not discussed by the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U102	Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U103	Can you tell us which companies this agreement could have the most impact in the future? In what sector do companies in Estonia have the closest trade relations with Mexico?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U104	This question came up in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but such statistics have unfortunately not been received from Eesti Pank or anywhere else. There are certainly not many of these companies, but this law is necessary in case there is a company.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U105	Please, Rannar Vasiliev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U106	How do you feel, in the future, if we still have such contracts coming to this Riigikogu and this is very likely to happen, could there be statistics?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U107	Yeah, we could.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U108	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Laurson. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. As there are no amendments, we can go to the final vote. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting in the final vote on the draft Act 466 on the ratification of the Treaty on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion and of the Protocol annexed thereto. Please vote! 69 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no one was against or impartial. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U109	We will begin the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Inara Luigas, Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, would like to speak as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U110	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will take a brief look at the handling of this draft law in the Commission. First of all, what is the content of the bill? The draft clarifies the rules on exemption from excise duty of excise goods introduced by travellers from a non-Union country in order to reduce the order of border crossings, prevent illegal trade in excise goods introduced from a non-Union country and ensure the proper implementation of Article 6 of Council Directive 2007/74/EC of the European Union. In this context, the randomity of the introduction of excise goods shall be determined, which shall be furnished through the frequency of the introduction of excise goods. According to the draft, excise goods are considered to be non-random within the limits of the duty-free quantity if alcohol and fuel are introduced into Estonia after their first arrival during the calendar month and tobacco products after their second arrival in Estonia during the calendar month. The discretion of the tax authorities to apply excise duty exemptions after first or second arrival in Estonia is also laid down. In addition, the draft amends the arrangements for supplying excise goods to aircraft and vessels located in another Member State in accordance with the European Commission Regulation and makes other drafting clarifications for reasons of legal clarity. The Committee on Finance discussed this draft twice in the preparation of the second reading, on 8 and 14 October. Amendments were essentially discussed. They were tabled 11 and one amendment was subsequently withdrawn. The Commission made one change to the draft by consensus in the entry into force clause. According to this law, the law will enter into force. a On 1 December, rather than 1 October, as initially proposed, the Estonian Central Party Group withdrew its amendment, which proposed that the law should enter into force on 1 November. The amendments that were still under way were not supported by the Commission. All these good proposals were voted out. The Commission maintained the solutions proposed by the initiator in order to reduce the border rankings and prevent illegal trade in excise goods imported from a non-Union country in order to increase tax receipts. A few words about the amendments on which the substantive debate was held. Amendment 1 was tabled by Urmas Klaas, Meelis Mälberg, Ülo Tulik, Peeter Laurson, Tarmo Tamm, Priit Sibul, Toomas Tõniste, Juku-Kalle Raid, Ester Tuiksoo, Kalvi Tulm, Rein Randver and Inara Luigas. The proposal provided that, for its own use, when entering the country, fuel may be imported from Russia in a standard fuel tank free of tax twice a month. Unfortunately, this proposal was not supported. The second amendment came from the speaker here, but I will, however, talk a little bit more, which was discussed when addressing the first amendment. It asked what analysis led to the fuel restrictions proposed in the draft. The representative of the Ministry of Finance explained that an attempt was made to assess the scenario of allowing one, two or three times a month of fuel without excise duty to be imported into Estonia. How this quantity was evaluated is also recorded in the explanatory memorandum. The representative of the Ministry of Finance explained that the purpose of border crossings must not be to produce fuel. The border can be crossed no matter how many times, but it is precisely the introduction of excise-free fuel that is restricted. The Tax and Customs Board is given a discretion to decide on randomity. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance stressed that the more times a month the tax-free border can be crossed, the more the number of border crossings is increasing and tax receipts are decreasing. Limiting cross-border fuel transport will allow Russian tourists to cross the border with shorter queues. At the same time, it was also said in the Commission that Russian tourists, too, must now start declaring their fuel quantities. And as the briefing said, they have to accept that the Tax and Customs Board has the right to pump fuel out of the fuel tank and to overmeasure it. Then it will be returned to its owner. Of course, there was also a question of whether such regulation would reduce border crossings. There's an electronic system of border crossings. It was examined why Estonia will stay once a month, although Latvia and Lithuania have decided otherwise: in Lithuania, fuel imports are allowed four times a month and in Latvia no more than once a week. The members of the Monetary Commission expressed their opinion that they will understand that, of course, the Ministry of Finance hopes to obtain more revenue for the state in the event of its regulation, but it will certainly bring more business and more trouble for Russian tourists. Another question was asked: "What does it mean once with a fuel tank full of border crossings?' whether this applies to the vehicle or to the passenger? The law states that border crossings are passenger-based. However, if a person walks across the border several times a month, when crossing the border by car, it is still considered to be the first time. There was also a question about how marriage mates would react if they had one car on two. The representatives of the Ministry of Finance explained that both spouses have the right to import excise fuel once a month across the border. When discussing the fifth amendment, the question was how the exact amount of fuel could be declared. On the entry into force of this law, the passenger must declare the quantity of fuel in writing. The representative of the Ministry of Finance explained that this was not mandatory. Every passenger has the right to declare fuel if he or she does not want trouble when he or she arrives in Estonia from Russia, or from a third country, and has more fuel in the tank than when he or she left Estonia. It was pointed out that if a person cannot estimate how much fuel is in the tank, he is always entitled to contact a tax and customs officer who measures the amount of fuel in the car with a liter. The same amendment also asked that if the border was crossed at different border crossing points, how would it be possible to guess whether or not a passenger had already crossed the border before? The officials of the Ministry of Finance explained that there is a single monitoring system; all border crossings are listed in a single register. There was also a debate on why Estonian and Russian cars with license plates are treated differently at the border. It was confirmed that the Tax and Customs Board was not in a position to make such a distinction and that the same choices would certainly be made in the risk assessment and verification. It was also discussed whether it was right not to allow occasional buses to travel to a parking space with fuel bought from Russia. In the event of the entry into force of the current draft law, occasional transport buses can only use this fuel to travel to the destination of the transport. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U111	Would you say the Commission's decisions?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U112	The Commission's decision is to propose the termination of the second reading. (meeting of 6), the European Economic and Social Committee adopted the following opinion by five votes to five, with no abstentions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U113	Thank you very much, Mr Luigas. Now it's time for questions. Please, Mr Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U114	Dear waitress, I would like to clarify § 1 (22) of the draft, which states that § 27 of the Act is supplemented by paragraphs 7 and 8 as follows: Paragraph 8 is worded as follows: "For travellers arriving in Estonia by aircraft, train or ship from a non-Union country, the exemption from excise duty shall not depend on the frequency of border crossings for alcohol and tobacco products. " Does it have to be understood that when a person arrives in Estonia by ship, train or plane, it does not matter how many times he has crossed the border this month? And if that's the case, I'd like to know why no international vans have been added here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U115	You have rightly understood: if a passenger arrives in Estonia from a non-Union country by aircraft, train or ship, the frequency of border crossings will not be defined. People can come to us by plane, train, or ship, even every day and bring a corresponding amount of excise goods.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U116	Please, Mr Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U117	Honourable waitress! It's probably a very sensitive bill. You mentioned that there were 11 amendments at first and ten were then discussed. I want to ask you about what happened in the Commission. You said that the good proposals were not taken into account. Was there pressure from the initiator, or was there some other reason why these proposals were not taken into account? And did the Commission also have a broader substantive debate? Was attention devoted to border crossings, the movement of border residents and other issues?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U118	There was a very substantive debate on this draft law. Members of the Commission met with representatives of both the Tax and Customs Board and the Ministry of Finance. The issue of border crossings has also been debated in this Chamber, and has been met with border residents. There are many examples of how this area is regulated in other Member States. I would like to stress once again that Lithuania is allowed to transfer fuel duty-free across the border once a week, but no more than five times a month. In Latvia, the criterion is 'not more than once every seven days'. The Finnish state does not regulate the number of times at all, but rather ensures that fuel imported from a third country is not produced with the aim of selling it. The Ministry of Finance believes that the main purpose of travelling across borders must not be to obtain excise goods from them. Of course, there is concern that tax money will still be received in Estonia. The speaker here, too, is not as stupid as Jürgen Ligi referred to today, claiming that I am only trying to gather votes in Southeast Estonia. Like all of us, I am concerned that tax money will be collected in Estonia and the state budget will be completed. At the same time, we should also bear in mind that there is no life in Tallinn in South-East Estonia and elsewhere on the border, and the small benefits that the European Union has promised with its directives, with its regulations, could, however, be allowed by the Estonian state. This would make it much easier for people living in south-eastern Estonia. And all that money that's being saved by buying fuel from that side of the border isn't going anywhere else. It goes to a grocery store, it goes to a grocery store anywhere. It will be used here in Estonia and, as taxes, it will either way reach the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U119	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U120	Dear waitress, My question is about equal treatment. In Finland, as you mentioned in your report, the number of border crossings in question is not limited at all, in Latvia and Lithuania it is four or five times a month, but in Estonia only once a month. What is the difference between an Estonian and a Finnish, Latvian and Lithuanian?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U121	He certainly differs in that he speaks Estonian. It also differs in that it has such a government. I am, of course, deeply sorry about that. But not everything has ended badly. If the Government of the Republic thinks that this bill can be improved for Estonian citizens, it will have this opportunity. I also call on all members of the Riigikogu to support certain amendments.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U122	Please, Mr Allik, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U123	Dear waitress, Thank you for your explanation, but you have not answered the other side of my question. Can you explain why the point of the train, ship or aircraft is not included in the international passenger bus? What's the difference?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U124	I don't know how to comment on that. There are specific standards for international passenger buses. As far as occasional buses are concerned, the Ministry of Finance claims that there are sometimes only two or three people on the bus and that they are driven across the border with only one aim: to bring fuel. These buses must not deliver more fuel than is necessary to transport the cargo to its destination. Other directives and rules apply to international buses.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U125	Please, Mr Kalvi Tough!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U126	Good Commission waitress! My question is about the discretion of the customs and tax authorities. Since this was the subject of one amendment, I hope you discussed this issue in the Commission. It is known that Russia has started to give birth to hospitals in south-eastern Estonia. And when the baby is about to be born, the mother needs to see a doctor several times before that, certainly at least once a month. If the family of the Pskov district decides that their child will be born in Võru Hospital, wouldn't it be a special case? After all, the father must also visit and bring the child home, and maybe the mother or child will have to check in later.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U127	This was briefly mentioned in the Commission. In general, the border crossing is a passenger and fuel is also taxed on a passenger basis. But when a young family in Pihkva, for example, travels to a hospital where a woman wants to have a child, it is clear that the border is repeatedly crossed. I can imagine all the trouble that comes with border crossings. When Võru is first driven to the hospital, the limit is exceeded by a full tank, they are exempt from excise duty. When they leave Estonia, they must declare their fuel balance. For the second time, for example, driving into labor, they may have the same amount of fuel in the tank as they received before the gallons. If the display shows up a little bit, and the tax and customs authorities suspect that there may be five litres in the tank, the whole family will be asked out of the car, pumped out the fuel tank, measured fuel and returned to the family after excise duty has been paid, if necessary. There are no exceptions, there is only the discretion of tax and customs officials when it comes to crossing the border for a second time. In all subsequent cases, if the amount of fuel is not declared in writing, the fuel will be taxed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U128	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U129	Dear waitress, In Latvia, excise-free goods may be brought across the border four times a month. If an Estonian goes through the Latvian border crossing point in Russia, will he also be granted this right?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U130	According to current data, if an Estonian citizen crosses the Russian-Latvian border, he too will enjoy this right. He can cross the border like this four times a month.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U131	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Luigas. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. We will go to the examination of the amendments. There were 11 amendments to the draft law, and we will start reviewing them. Amendment 1 is tabled by colleagues Urmas Klaas, Meelis Mälberg, Ülo Tulik, Peeter Laurson, Tarmo Tamme, Priit Sibula, Toomas Tõniste, Juku-Kalle Raidi, Ester Tuiksoo, Kalvi Tõll, Rein Randver and Inara Luigas. The Governing Commission has disregarded this. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U132	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment. Before the vote, I would like to ask for a ten-minute break so that the MPs can discuss the matter among themselves.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U133	Thank you very much. Here's the paper or buma, please. Break ten minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U134	Ladies and gentlemen, the break taken by the Group of the Social Democratic Party has ended and we can go to the vote. I shall put to the vote Amendment 1, tabled by colleagues Urmas Klaas, Meelis Mälberg, Ülo Tulik, Peeter Laurson, Tarmo Tamm, Priit Sibul, Toomas Tõniste, Juku-Kalle Raid, Ester Tuiksoo, Kalvi Tuld, Rein Randver and Inara Luigas, which has been disregarded by the commission. Please vote! Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U135	I have a procedural question: where have the MPs Glass, Mälberg, Tulik, Laurson, Onion, Tõniste and Raid gone?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U136	I read it all. [[In the Laughing Hall.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U137	But where have they gone?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U138	Where they've gone, it's not my problem! Colleagues, may I have your attention, please? Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 1, tabled by Urmas Klaas, Meelis Mälberg, Ülo Tulik, Peeter Laurson, Tarmo Tamm, Priit Sibul, Toomas Tõniste, Juku-Kalle Raid, Ester Tuiksoo, Kalvi Tõll, Rein Randver and Inara Luigas. The Steering Committee has disregarded this proposal. Please vote! There are 26 members of the Riigikogu in favour of the proposal, 36 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 2 is tabled by my colleague, Mr Luigas, and the lead committee has failed to do so. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U139	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U140	All right! Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 2, which is tabled by my colleague, Mr Luigas, and which has been rejected by the commission. Please vote! 16 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 43 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 3 is tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the commission has disregarded it. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U141	I would like to ask for the third amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U142	Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the third amendment tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party, which has been rejected by the commission. Please vote! 24 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 43 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 4 is tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the commission has disregarded it. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U143	I would like to ask for the fourth amendment to be voted on.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U144	All right! Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 4, tabled by the Group of the Estonian Central Party. The Governing Commission has disregarded this. Please vote! 23 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 44 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 5 has been tabled by my colleague, Mr Luigas, and the commission has failed to do so. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U145	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U146	Please! Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on Amendment 5 tabled by my colleague, Mr Luigas, which has been rejected by the commission. Please vote! 24 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 42 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 6 is tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; the commission has disregarded it. Amendment 7 has also been tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the commission has disregarded it. Amendment 8 is tabled by my colleague, Mr Luigas, and the commission has failed to do so. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U147	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U148	Please! Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 8, which is tabled by my colleague, Mr Luigas, and which has been rejected by the commission. Please vote! 23 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 39 against and no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 9 is tabled by my colleague, Mr Luigas, and the commission has failed to do so. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U149	I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U150	Please! Good Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 9, which is tabled by my colleague, Mr Luigas. The Governing Commission has disregarded this. Please vote! 24 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 42 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 10 is tabled by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the commission has disregarded it. And the last amendment, No 11, has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and the commission has taken full account of this. Ladies and gentlemen, we have examined all the amendments. The second reading of bill 449 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U151	Our next item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Plant Protection. I would like to ask for a presentation by Mrs Priit Sibula, Member of the Chair Committee on Rural Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U152	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Draft 473 has been discussed twice in the Committee on Rural Affairs before the second reading: on 7 October, when, in addition to the members of the committee, Evelin Hillep was present as Head of Department of the Plant Protection Department of the Ministry of Agriculture and on 14 October. On 7 October we also discussed an amendment consisting in the fact that the training certificates issued by the Estonian Institute for Agriculture remain valid after the amendment of the Plant Protection Act. Further improvements were made to the norm due to the norm rules. The Commission has taken a consensual decision to close the second reading. On Monday, 14 October, we proposed that the draft be in the large hall at third reading on 23 October. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U153	Thank you very much. There's a question for you too. Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U154	Dear waitress, thank you very much for your very meaningful presentation. I have a question. We were here a few minutes ago discussing a very important subject. Were you just late or where were you?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U155	The Commission did not, in the slightest, deal with the issue of where I intend to be when draft 449 comes to the discussion in the Chamber. I report my movements, not in this Chamber, but to my constituents.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U156	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Priit Onion. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. There is one proposal for amending the draft law that has been tabled by the Committee on Rural Affairs and which has been fully taken into account. The second reading of bill 473 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U157	The next item is the first reading of Draft 461 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Accepting Estonia's National Tourism Development Plan 2014 to 2020' presented by the Government of the Republic. The Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, is already coming to the speaker's desk. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U158	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! As has been said, the government will submit to the Riigikogu for approval a tourism development plan for the years 2014 to 2020. This scheme has focused mainly on the activities of the State in the development of tourism over the next seven years. We have drawn up this plan on a very broad basis, involving a number of tourism operators and their active associations, municipalities and ministries. We therefore dare to request the support of the Riigikogu on this bill. In my report, I will try to open up a little bit of the content of this strategy, which deals with the situation and assesses the prospects for the future. I would like to start by pointing out that for twenty years we have taken up the tourism sector and its positive development quite naturally and guaranteed. We all travel, who is more, who is less, both in Estonia and abroad. The figures in the tourism sector show that this is a very important and developing sector. We appreciate that the tourism sector, together with its indirect effects, accounts for 6.3% of Estonia's GDP, while exports of tourism services account for 29% of the exports of services. According to Eesti Pank, Estonia's foreign tourism revenue was 617 million euros in the first half of this year, with an increase of 7% over the year. There are thousands of jobs in the tourism sector, and in very many areas of Estonia tourism is often the sector with the most serious potential in view of the development of the region. A tourist who comes to Estonia on business or on holiday, or even for a few hours from a ship to land, is exposed to a wide range of types and forms of enterprise. She goes on a tour and museum, stays in a hotel, eats in a restaurant, buys souvenirs, moves in Estonia within several municipalities, etc. All these contacts affect his opinion of our country and, in the case of all these contacts, he leaves money in Estonia and revives our economy. Therefore, because there are many and very different players in the tourism sector, it is necessary to try to coordinate tourism together. I used the word 'triangulation' because given the proportion of private initiative and human creativity here, it would be unnecessary to plan the development of tourism from the top down. Estonian tourism, like the entire Estonian economy, has undergone significant development over the twenty years. Foreign guests who have found their way to Estonia for various reasons are usually very positively surprised here. In order to get more of them here, the first keyword of the development plan needs to be addressed. One strategic direction remains to increase Estonia's profile. We will continue to market Estonia in the nearest and farther markets. At the same time, it becomes more important to introduce Estonia as a country with a variety of niche tourism opportunities, be it nature, conference, food tourism, etc. The second keyword is connections. It is certainly important, first of all, how the tourist gets to Estonia and, second, how he can move around comfortably while he is here. We are moving forward vigorously with Rail Baltic and we want to make rail connections with our eastern neighbour more attractive. Tallinn Airport continues to look for new opportunities to diversify air connections. Hopefully, our airline, which is based on the local market, will be out of the deepest hole and will be able to offer new connections. New electric and diesel trains should provide the opportunity to travel more conveniently and faster in Estonia and this should contribute to the development of tourism outside Tallinn. The development of Estonian roads will continue, which we foresee in the Estonian transport development plan. We are developing a road network in the direction of Tallinn, Tartu, Tallinn, Pärnu and Tallinn. Our biggest and most specific task in developing connections is to better connect our main international gates (Tallinn Airport, Tallinn Old Port) to the rest of the transport network. This certainly concerns the development plans of our capital: better compatibility of public transport routes, extension of tram lines to the airport, convenient connecting possibilities in Ülemiste, the comprehensive development of the Old Port area in cooperation with the private sector. Of course, the tourist must have a reason to leave Tallinn. There is a specific chapter dedicated to the development and cooperation of regional support services in this area in the tourism development plan. The third important keyword is cooperation: cooperation between the private sector and the state, between the private sector and the municipality, between the municipality and the state, between entrepreneurs. We encourage companies to look beyond their daily field of activity, not only to see a competitor in the neighbour, but also to see a partner in the development plan. We also want to see significant improvements in cooperation between the state and local governments, especially in Tallinn. The state has given great impetus to the development of the seaside around the Seaplane Harbour. We hope that Tallinn will come up with initiatives that will further develop Tallinn as a northern sea city in the coming years. We're ready to bet on it. Fourthly, it is important to perceive the needs and desires of the tourist. It starts at the level of each individual company. The owner or hostess of the tourist farm must look at their business with the eyes of the customer; they should not only provide the services he is most comfortable offering himself. At national level, we see three main niches where there is clearly demand in the tourism sector. Firstly, in the development plan, we propose the establishment of a fair and conference centre for international events in cooperation with the private sector. We have carried out a study involving external experts, the preliminary results of which show that there is a need for such a centre. A cost-benefit analysis is currently being carried out. The various options for the construction of the centre and the successful organisation of this business will be a forum for discussion in the future. Another major investment is internationally attractive family tourism services. We hope that this year we will be able to make a positive decision about Lottemaa, but we consider it necessary to work together to create family tourism centres around Tallinn as well. In terms of investment, we see the development of a network of small ports as a third major need, so that we can get a decent share of the Baltic Sea's maritime tourism revenue. I'm sure it'll take all the money. We have now presented a tourism development plan for a financial amount of EUR 123 million. I would point out that this is an approximate number, which mainly involves financing various tourism programmes. Investments and activities that are more indirectly linked to tourism are, of course, planned by the government; we are not going to end any existing operational measures. The amount is lower than in the last period of the European Union or in the current period, but we also believe that our tourism has grown out of a phase where all kinds of activities had to be'spokenly supported'. State and public resources must intervene where there is a market failure, where without it something important remains to help our tourism achieve its objectives. Between 2007 and 2013, we have focused around 170 million euros on the development of tourism. In total, we have supported 70 tourist sites and various tourism products in different regions of Estonia. We all know the Seaplane Harbour, Estonian Maritime Museum, Tallinn TV Tower, Science Centre AHHAA in Tartu. They have all already justified themselves as tourism investments, become popular among foreign tourists and Estonians. In part, thanks to this support, the number of tourists in Estonia has increased every year, which is now more than ever, thanks to the dedicated activity of Estonian people in the field of tourism. We see that every quarter of statistics brings a new record. Of course, we must ask whether we can be sure that the increase in the number of tourists will be guaranteed forever. Of course, the right answer is that you can't. We must make a very strong effort to ensure that progress continues. We have proposed targets for 2020. We will continue to see Estonia as an attractive and competitive tourist destination. While in 2012 tourism services were exported to Estonia for 1.2 billion euros, the development plan foresees that EUR 1.6 billion will be reached by 2020. The number of foreign tourists must increase by a third, to nearly 5 million, and domestic tourism by a quarter, i.e. domestic tourism should be 2.1 million. The first strategic direction of the development plan is to increase the visibility of Estonia as a travel destination (budget of 20 million euros). Our aim is to raise awareness among consumers and tour operators of target markets about tourism opportunities in Estonia and to increase demand for Estonian tourism products. In the development plan, we pay special attention to the marketing of conference and business tourism and identify priority markets. We focus on the markets in Finland, Russia, Latvia, Sweden, Norway, Germany and Great Britain, but also on more distant target markets (China, Japan, USA). In the development plan, we have identified, in cooperation with economic operators and market analysts, the main focus groups and activities of the target markets for which the state provides money. Of course, we will continue to increase the visibility of Estonia as a travel destination with a view to domestic tourism. The second strategic direction is the development of tourism information and tourism products (EUR 13 million in cash). The most important thing I want to mention in this Chamber is the creation, marketing and continuous updating of innovative and user-friendly electronic solutions and mobile applications. We also foresee the development of thematic cooperation networks and the organisation of studies among tourists in Estonia, as well as in target markets. The third is the development of tourist attractions of international interest (EUR 50 million in cash). The aim is to extend the range of attractions of interest to tourists in Estonia, namely the choice of attractions that give rise to greater interest among tourists in coming to Estonia. We prefer products and services whose demand is not limited only to the summer peak season. To overcome the seasonality trap, we support the establishment of tourist attractions that motivate travel to Estonia and stay longer and help to increase demand at a time when the overall demand is not very high. As noted above, the main keywords here are the multifunctional conference and fair centre, a family tourism centre of international interest and the development of a network of small ports. The fourth strategic direction is participation in international events (a budget of €7.5 million). To raise Estonia's profile, we want to see a greater contribution to major events, such as cultural and sporting events, as well as to international conferences that contribute to the increase in the number of foreign tourists, to the reduction of the seasonality of tourism and, of course, to increasing Estonia's recognition as a country of destination for conference and cultural tourism. The fifth strategic direction is the development of regional tourism products (with a budget of EUR 25 million). The aim is to link existing products and services in regions to one whole. We want to see local governments and counties here, but where it is necessary and logical, we want to see the joint action of wider regions to increase the attractiveness of Estonia among tourists. As a result of these and many other activities, we want to increase the international competitiveness of the Estonian tourism sector, increase Estonia's reputation as a travel destination, increase the number of foreign tourists in Estonia and increase the export revenue of tourism services by a third to 1.6 billion euros. We also want to increase the added value of jobs in the tourism sector. Once again, this development plan is a framework that focuses mainly on the state's contribution to the development of tourism in Estonia. As an annex to the development plan, problems with other areas have been identified. Many issues directly or indirectly affecting tourism have not been addressed in the development plan. When discussing all the following strategies, we must certainly bear in mind the tourism aspect. As I said, this plan is a joint effort. I hope that, on most of the issues, a consensual understanding has been achieved, using today's wisdom and experience, for the next seven years. It is clear that seven years is a very long time in Estonia's development. It certainly does not make sense to request that every word in this development plan be set up in stone. We must retain the opportunity to be flexible and to react to changes in external conditions. We must not miss new opportunities and we must develop creative cooperation with private entrepreneurs in Estonia and outside Estonia in order to increase our attractiveness. I very much hope that the Riigikogu debate will be fruitful. I'm sure all your ideas are welcome, but why not the criticism? We're trying to take all this into account in our actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U159	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U160	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U161	In recognition of the players, the tourism development plan has been better placed than, for example, the rural development plan for the new budget period of the European Union. There are bigger scissors in the rural development plan and there is probably still a balance to be sought. However, according to the representatives of the tourism sector, at least the version of the development plan addressed here today reflects significantly better the interests and needs of the sector than the previous options did. There will be new measures that better take into account the rapidly changing world, and the emphasis will be on raising Estonia's profile, which the Minister spoke about in greater detail. However, general trends in valuing tourism in the country cannot be accepted. I'll give you an embarrassing example. Only a few weeks ago, there was a discussion of the rural development plan in this very Chamber of the Riigikogu, where the Minister of Agriculture made a completely incredible statement that raised questions and puzzles the whole tourism sector. Let me remind you of Minister Seeder's performance on this very platform when he said the following words: '... Tourism does not make Estonia rich. [---] Rural tourism is one of the least waged areas. This does not bring very high added value and there is relatively little research-based work there. So accommodation, catering, cleaning and service, hoteling is not the area that makes us wealthy. ' The Estonian Tourism and Local Food Support Group in the Riigikogu does not agree with the statement of the Minister of Agriculture and wants to make every effort to ensure that this misconception is not established. This statement means not valuing the work of the tens of thousands of people working in a sector that is so important to our economy. Tourism is a vital engine for promoting and diversifying rural areas. This area is also dealt with by the rural development plan and there should certainly be more emphasis on rural tourism, as the positive impact of tourism on Estonia's development is beyond any doubt. It is very difficult to estimate how much of the world's economy is related to tourism, according to different estimates 6 to 16%. There are a lot of additional services related to direct tourism services, but also trade and cultural events, of course, and an increase in the overall visibility of the country as a tourist destination, which in turn benefits all the country's exports. I am convinced that if all Estonian hotels, the Tallinn travel port and the airport were to be closed, our economy would collapse. Public facilities, hiking and recreational trails, parks serve the tourism sector. Local shops, spas, rural municipalities, museums, visiting centers, all of which offer valuable services to local residents. Returning to the development plan, I would like to mention one more thing. In the last meeting with the producers of the development plan and representatives of the sector here in the Riigikogu, it became clear that there are some problems with the implementation of the development plan. Indeed, the new development plan, as I said before, should be in place in a few months from the beginning of 2014, yet the plan makers have not been able to provide a clear plan on how tourism companies should operate during the transition period, when the current development plan has expired, but the measures of the new development plan have not yet been implemented. It will, of course, take time to implement, but the work must not stop. This is particularly the case with marketing and cooperation. The budgets will be made in advance for a long time. We are dealing with the state budget here, but many companies and associations in the sector have already made plans and budgets for next year. However, the representatives of the Ministry have not been able to provide concrete solutions for a transitional period. Investments can wait, but not the day-to-day marketing work. We have a request to the Minister for Tourism, if he is still in this house, to try to find solutions quickly for a transitional period. Legislation, sub-measures and regulations relating to implementation would need a little push-back so that they do not get in the way of time. The year 2014 is coming quite quickly. I hope that the Minister will take this signal seriously from this hall and the implementation of the new development plan will go smoothly and solutions will be found quickly. On behalf of the Reform Party Group, I propose to support the new tourism development plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U162	Thank you. Good question. I am using this issue to clarify the meaning of greater investment. We have recorded in the development plan the investments needed to remedy some serious market failure or to encourage the private sector to invest directly in tourist attractions. This development plan does not mention, of course, nor does it exclude cultural or sporting investments which, in one way or another, indirectly or directly contribute to tourism. I know the Minister of Culture is planning a series of museum developments, investments in heritage. This sport investment you are talking about has been the subject of our debate. But we do not guarantee that the investment money will be directed to build a swimming pool. When we talk about European funds as a source of investment, we must remember that we have experience here with one museum. There is a long and complex methodology when you can talk about tourism investments and cultural or other types of investment. Here too, the solution depends on what can be done with European money, then you can respond more precisely. However, this does not mean that the government may not have other investment objects in the field of culture or sport.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U163	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U164	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. The development plan speaks in many places about health tourism, but only in a few places about medical tourism as one of the sub-species of health tourism. Has therapeutic tourism been dealt with modestly, for example, because the investments of the Ministry of Social Affairs or any investments planned in the health sector do not take into account the possibilities of therapeutic tourism? Or are they still counting on them? Shouldn't medical tourism have been given more attention in the development plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U165	Thank you. The way I see it, the cure is health. I would not contrast these two by playing a terminological game that is a health tourism, one of which may be some kind of treatment. Where do you draw this line? I think it is one of these, I dare say so, a tourist opportunity that is only at a rather early stage, but why not also an export option. These things kind of coincide. Many companies, smaller but also larger medical institutions, are concentrated in the respective foundation. They're already our partners. I think that many of the programmes we are planning under these strategic orientations should support the professional activities of these companies. There's no way I'd be opposed to health and treatment here, but that depends on how we look at it. But there is certainly potential here and we want to continue working together.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U166	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U167	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I see that the development plan sets various goals. One of them foresees that Estonia should increase significantly in the ranking of conference tourism destination countries in seven years, i.e. by 2020. I would like to know how this will be achieved. Does this development plan also provide for the construction of a "conference palace" or a large conference centre?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U168	Yeah, there's a short answer. I talked about it in my report, but your thoughts were obviously somewhere else. The fair and conference centre, which will be set up in cooperation with the private sector, is, in our opinion, well needed. The central issue is not even this investment, because we believe, on the basis of current knowledge, that not the state needs to be an investor here, but that we should help to overcome the investment failure in the market. The central question is finding a partner who can fill 365 days a year with the activities of this centre. There are various ways to do this. Of course, we should refrain from developing a fair or conference centre that should be further supported. As I said, this is a central issue. We are about to complete a feasibility study with British consultants with special experience from different parts of the world, and from this study we need to move forward. There is certainly a legitimate question of what will happen to similar objects. As Minister of Economic Affairs, I have not been able to understand in six years what Tallinn is planning to do with the city hall; it simply has not succeeded. If you have more information, maybe you'll help me. The whole department has been trying to figure out what the plan is with the city hall. Maybe there's some way to connect these two things. But when we're talking about the fair and conference center, we know that Pirita is probably about to end this activity, and I think that's where the city has put in place completely different plans. It's gonna be a very big hole, and somehow it's gonna have to be filled. There are different models. We have looked at what has been applied in the Nordic countries or in the slightly larger German Länder in terms of population. In the case of conference tourism, an action to support events is also important, which we want to better target. Thirdly, the conference office that we have set up and where there are several parties is important. Its actions need to be taken forward. I think we have real experience of doing these things better, introducing our country and country. We're part of the networks. I think there is clearly a potential for growth here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U169	Rein Aidma, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U170	Thank you, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. As we read the development plan, we are pleased to note that Ida-Virumaa, which is an industrial area, is also highlighted here in terms of tourism. However, I would have liked to have seen the possibility of sports tourism in Kiviõli and in the current Maidla career in Aidu, for example. Instead, I ask you about one of the northern nodes of the eastern and western movement, because you are the Minister of Economic Affairs. What is the state of the possible development project of the Narva Bridge? When could freight transport start over the new bridge and tourists then move over the current bridge?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U171	Thank you. As far as border crossings are concerned, we have launched an inter-agency working group, which should look at the conceptual development needs on the eastern border in the short term and in the long term. Of course, the biggest question here is the border crossing in Narva, but I would not forget the southern crossing points either. If we think five to ten years in advance, it is clear that trade with the eastern neighbour and the movement of people across the border are growing. In many ways, it is in our interests. Consequently, we need to start thinking outside the frames and look at these issues conceptually. A different logistical scheme needs to be established at the Narva border crossing point. Of course, we can only do this in cooperation with our eastern neighbour. I can say today that several ministries of the Russian Federation have re-introduced this issue and this has been discussed by the Estonian-Russian Transport Cooperation Committee. The authorities have been instructed to reconsider the initial task once again. I have spoken about this at a meeting with the governor of the Leningrad region who has considered it necessary to solve this problem. The question is not, as you can understand, just a bridge, but both sides need to change the logistical solution. There may be various obstacles that are not linked to the existence or lack of political will. Today, I can say that these questions are again quite specific. We're working on this task. I think it's important to get a starting point, some kind of sketch that the Road Administration can actually work with. If we come to this (we are also discussing the transport development plan here), this project will certainly not be left without the resources held by the Estonian state or without the European Commission's money, because this place is also a bottleneck for logistics or transport at European level. For this we would find money within seven years, in cooperation with the European Commission and the Russian Federation, if we had a real technical solution. I'm sure that would make sense. Of course, it is not just a question of a bridge within the city of Narva, but we want to see reasonable border, customs and other control procedures, better passenger service and many other things. These necks of the bottle, which sometimes appear, are disturbing. We've moved on a lot here. We are currently working on a project that should improve the service of bus and coach passengers, we have an electronic border order system in place. All these things have been done, but there is still no long-term viable solution. This requires investment in infrastructure.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U172	Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U173	These priority growth opportunities for target markets need to be looked at where one euro invested can make more money. It would certainly be unacceptable to exclude the opportunities offered by our rural tourism to tourists coming from the eastern world. However, if we count money and want to achieve greater productivity and exports, we will inevitably have to calculate each euro invested, where there is greater growth potential.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U174	Kajar Lember, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U175	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. We are really discussing a development plan in a very important area. As you said, tourism provides 6% or even a little more of Estonia's GDP. This development plan isn't bad in itself, there's a lot of ideas. But my concern is whether we can still see the realization of what has been put on paper. Things don't happen by themselves, there must be people who are responsible for all of this, keeping their hands on their pulses, so that everything can be done. If I look at the structure of your ministry, I won't find any officials responsible for this area. We have the Ministry of Agriculture and the PRIA, although only 3% of GDP comes from agriculture. At the same time, I do not see any officials responsible for the development of tourism. How do you guarantee that this development plan will work?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U176	I'm just going to say, laconically, that maybe the source you were looking at was just too laconic. In the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Vice Chancellor of the Internal Market, Merike Saks, is responsible for tourism. Our ministry also employs one and a half or two places, if you could say so, experts involved in coordinating tourism activities, individual projects, etc. A number of important and country-specific issues concerning tourism are obviously to be resolved by other people as well. When we're talking about transport, it's the transport people. When we talk about attracting investment here or some real projects, there is a tourism development centre in EAS, which is a private foundation. They know how much labour they need on a full-time basis, on a contract basis, on a project basis, etc. We have established a number of foundations to improve cooperation with private business. I mentioned the Estonian Conference Office. Health tourism has already been asked about in this hall, but in the same way, the state is taking part in regional tourism development centres in one way or another. We have regionally based foundations where a lot of labour has been employed. Believe me, if you ever get into government, you will understand that such an idea, which from time to time sounds completely intelligent from time to time, that officials have a sign on the door that makes the Estonian people richer, is fantastic. It is a very common way of thinking and it is expressed in different forms. I dare say there are plenty of people in the Ministry who are involved in tourism. Of course, if you make a change in the state budget and tell the Ministry of Economic Affairs to employ a hundred people who have to deal with tourism, then I will have to do something if such an order comes from the Riigikogu. But right now, I assure you, manpower is actually enough to deal with tourism in a government machine. There's been an idea here that we need a Minister of Tourism. The Minister of Tourism is before you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U177	Good fellows, I'll take the chairman's break in three minutes. The hearing will be resumed at 3.45 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U178	Break's over. Let's get on with the questions. Jaan Apple Tree, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U179	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, It is clear that the tourism sector is very important. Much has been done to prepare this document, I have no doubt about that. When you spoke in your introductory presentation about local government, you gave an example of Tallinn, which unfortunately was not positive. The local authorities of Estonia are known to be very different from their administrative capacity, and they do not have to deal with the field of tourism under any law. Last week, the Social Democrats tried to give the local government an obligation to stand up for the development of the business environment, but unfortunately it was voted out with the coalition's votes. Do you think local authorities could not by law be held responsible for creating conditions conducive to tourism?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U180	To be honest, I have always understood that the idea of a municipality's existence is to stand up for the development of its region, not to perform any of the functions listed in the law. In my opinion, if the municipality is working and responsible for the development of entrepreneurship, including tourism, it makes perfect sense. At the same time, it makes no sense for us to understand this in such a way that the municipality should become a huge business enterprise or tourism company. I am amazed that we are still raising this issue in 2013. In my opinion, promoting entrepreneurship is the starting position of the municipality. If he doesn't do business promotion, tourism promotion, among other things, what's the point?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U181	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U182	Good manager! Good waitress! Before we did, we had a conversation about Peipsi. You asked if the oak should be run down by sailboats or yachts. There's a lock for that. In fact, even with one lock, it would be possible to make that connection, but it would be better, of course, to do it with two locks. Is it possible to find money to connect the Baltic Sea to Peipsi when financing tourism? This link could give a very strong impetus to the development of four regions through the development of tourism. Seven of the ten poorest municipalities of Estonia are now located right there on the shores of Peipsi.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U183	If there was a technical project, we could discuss it further. There have been a lot of initiatives on the issue of this gateway, but it still requires a real project with an analysis of economic efficiency. I think that, ideally, this could be done by private operators and the state could help a little. But I dare say there is no project like that right now. This issue has been discussed several times in the Ministry, but it is all on a very abstract level. We do not know whether this is technically feasible at all. I wouldn't be talking about the demand right now. I think we're gonna try and keep working on that idea. I certainly do not want to say that we should rule that out. Let's deal with it, let's see what we got.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U184	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U185	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. I will return to the subject of the connections. You spoke about the promotion of the small ports network, which is also mentioned in the development plan as a single direction. The work of small ports and ports at all depends much on their access to the sea and land. What is the link between the tourism development plan and the transport development plan, i.e. whether waterways and rural roads allow access to the network of small ports?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U186	I'm sure there's a connection. I dare say that it is always possible to build a supporting infrastructure where something arises. You're probably talking about good access right now. Estonia is not so big that we cannot solve these issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U187	Thank you. First of all, "big" is relative. I guess I didn't use that word because it might scare you. I pointed out the keyword of this family tourism centre, however, as a result of this analysis, which showed that we are not attractive at the moment, but potential demand exists primarily in family tourism, both within Estonia and outside Estonia, I think. There are different family tourism centres, but one venture that could be placed under family tourism is the planned Lottemaa in Pärnumaa, which we still want to do within the framework of the current tourism development plan. Tourist operators share the understanding that the most untapped opportunities are in the vicinity of Tallinn. It's inevitable. We don't have that kind of family tourism magnet right now. Ideally, it would be a private investment. The mark in the development plan means that the State, through the activities of EAS, should enter into professional discussions with potential investors in the market in order to determine what the problem is. What exactly is a family tourism center? Don't ask me that! I can share my experience with you because we have all seen things in Europe and elsewhere in the world. After all, these experiences are different. Of course, all of this must relate in some way to Estonian culture and our perceptions. I don't want to see the Ülemiste old man anymore. This centre is probably related to water tourism or is a playground, but it must also be attractive outside Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U188	Thank you. Good minister! Several times have been said here, and you also mentioned in your presentation that during the new financing period, a large family tourism centre could be established in Estonia, which attracts tourists here. On the one hand, I very much agree with that, but I do want to know your understanding of exactly what this is supposed to be. Secondly, why do you think it should be right around Tallinn?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U189	Thank you, Mr President. Good new Minister of Tourism! Can I turn to you like this? We are talking here about how suddenly the flow of tourists to Estonia is beginning to increase. But, as we know, the tourist must be visually influenced, he wants to see, not so much to hear, where he should go next. Throughout the world, and especially in Europe, for the last five years, there has been a race to bring other country action groups and to intensify the sale of scenes. It's actually happening with the sale of movies, it's being done at movies and tourist fairs. Indeed, there is, of course, a very high level of competition between countries and cities. Have you thought about how we could develop it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U190	I am. I wonder where the project we're funding is going. In general, things can go on when it is clear what the results of one project or another have been. I'm sure the questioner knows what I'm talking about. There are various projects where this market is being tried, the validity of the hypothesis you presented is being tested, our ability here is being branded to increase our market share and many other things are being done. One might ask, of course, whether such activity is some sort of niche tourism to which we should dedicate a separate chapter in the development plan. You're talking about promoting film-related activities. I think that creative marketing must continue in any case. Not some vague introduction of Estonia anywhere, but making Estonia more creative in terms of tourism is a very serious task. I've often been asked why we don't show ourselves at CNN or where everything else is. It's a relatively ineffectual activity. This direction of creative activity, to which you referred, may also be one of the very interesting opportunities of the state's creative marketing, I do not rule it out. I think it needs to be worked on, and I certainly support such ideas. I also want to say something positive. If there are people who are alert, thinkers who are eager to do something new, then we want to invest in them, but we do not want to ruin them with a huge money ship from some country. I've had a lot of experience with great teams and ideas because of a lot of money, when they're just flooded with money. I don't want to do that. But I assure you, I am prepared to cooperate with these groups of initiative.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U191	Siim Kabrits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U192	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister of Tourism, The Estonian Business Paradise: how to unite forces to turn Estonia into a centre for international business development into a destination for talented people, rewarding jobs and value-creating foreign investments? '. Have the results of this study and the policy recommendations based on them been taken into account when drawing up the tourism development plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U193	The short answer is certainly yes. I think Mrs. Palo had a suspicion that we were doing some pretty words, but we wouldn't bring them back to life. This is not the first development plan that has reached this hall. I've always drawn up development plans with the knowledge that we're going to put them into practice. This study, to which you referred, deals with a sound balance of realism and ambition as a single issue. No matter what strategy we are discussing here, we often see that very much energy has been wasted, creating some kind of fairytale, totally unrealistic understanding of the Republic of Estonia and its possibilities in the future. I think it's evil. We need to start putting these people in order somehow. At the same time, I may be accused of being perhaps not ambitious enough. I do not believe that the tourism development plan is less ambitious. If we look at the numbers, and if I could give you more or less an introduction to these computations, how these figures have been obtained, then it is clear that this is a pretty ambitious thing. In Estonia's tourism industry, I think there is a particularly ambitious question of the added value created by the employees. We all know that our productivity is growing, people's wage growth is also growing. There is inevitably a great deal of seasonality in the tourism sector, and there is also a great deal of so-called cheap jobs. It sounds ominous, but cheap jobs must become more expensive, so they must also become more productive. So much for this study. By the way, at times this study has taken ideas even from the development plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U194	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U195	Thank you, manager. Minister, thank you very much. Are you confirming this or rejecting the rumor that the new conference centre will be built for the money taken away from the county tourist information centres?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U196	Tiina Lock-Tramberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U197	This is bullshit! There is no money at all to discuss the construction of this fair and conference centre. Absolutely not.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U198	Good manager! Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, As the Rules of Procedure do not offer a separate speech to the support groups, I am here as a representative of the Reform Party Group, but as the leader of the Estonian Tourism and Local Food Support Group, I also reflect the views of this association on the development plan. This support group is known to be one of the most numerous in the Riigikogu, which includes a quarter of the Riigikogu. Today's active debate in this Chamber also shows how important this issue is. The Support Group has actively contributed to the development of a new tourism development plan. This has been discussed in several meetings with the Ministry of Economic Affairs, EAS and representatives of the tourism sector and the social partners, i.e. the most important tourism representative organisations. The national tourism development plan for the years 2014 to 2020 has become ever better and more concrete in the course of the work. Many of the proposals that have come from the social partners and from think tanks held here in the Riigikogu have been taken into account. I very much hope that it will not remain a stoned document, as the Minister promised today. The world in 2020, when the period of this development plan should end, is quite different from the world that surrounds us now. This certainly concerns tourism in particular. When making any development plans, it is always a paradox that it is difficult to build a church in the middle of a village, perhaps it is very difficult to find a balance between the city and the land, between large and small companies, between the centre and the periphery. It always seems to someone that the blanket is being pulled off or that too little attention has been paid to some aspect. Eight minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U199	Tarmo Tamm.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U200	Imre Sooäär, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U201	Thank you. Good waitress! Unfortunately, the Home and Working Procedures Act does not allow us to make any changes to this development plan; we can only approve it or reject it. As has been said in the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Riigikogu has had little opportunity to participate in the drafting of this development plan. Riigikogu associations have done so very actively. It is now a question of implementing the new development plan. Some problems have been identified. The plan has to be in place in two months' time, but there is a great deal of uncertainty about the first half of next year, and new measures are not yet in place. Would it be possible for the Minister to make a strong effort to find a transition when the current development plan expires, but the new one is not yet in effect?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U202	Thank you. If this issue concerned the financial resources held by the government, I believe that we should have enough money to carry out the necessary activities. Certainly new investments or new initiatives need better preparation, but I do not see any financial hole here. Our interest is wider, it is not just about tourism. We want to be very active in bringing money to the market. We hope that we will be able to stay on the schedule that we have agreed with the European Commission. This means that perhaps even if, for example, we have not foreseen funds in the 2014 state budget, the faster implementation of these development plans will not be hindered. The assumption is that we can end these talks with the European Commission. The European Commission shares our strategic objectives, including with regard to tourism. I believe that it is entirely feasible that real financial opportunities be opened up next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U203	Siim Kabrits, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U204	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Tourism is among the world's three most important industries alongside the automotive and oil industries. Yesterday, the Minister of Justice mentioned that 150 officials are involved in legislative work in Estonia. When I look at Statistics Estonia's website, I see 400 officials working there. Can you tell us how many officials in the state sector are coordinating Estonian tourism policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U205	Certainly a smaller order of magnitude than there are representatives of the sectors you mentioned in the state apparatus, but I believe there are enough. Thousands of active and dedicated people are still important in the field of tourism. They do more without tourism than an army of officials.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U206	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U207	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for your review and for your work. You mentioned connections. I tend to think that many South Estonians are not Tallinn's hub where their trips begin. It's Riga. We know that the air link from Tartu to Riga is currently not very dealt with; the priority is train connection. What is the perspective of the Tartu-Valga-Riga-Riga-Valga-Valga-Tartu route regarding tourist movements? Is there a perspective or is everything limited to the Rail Baltic project?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U208	If the question was whether the train can take Riga from Tartu, then it can, even now. Only Valga must leave one train and enter another train, namely the Latvian train. We have thoroughly analysed whether the passenger train connection of Tallinn or, if you wish, Tartu would be economically viable. If no support is paid, there is probably no company currently to start this train connection. The most difficult issue from the point of view of the cost base is infrastructure charges in the south. We know that the rail infrastructure charging policy for passenger trains in the southern neighbourhood is slightly different from ours, and these costs are growing quite high there. At the same time, we are open to Estonian private train operators. We know they're very pretentious. Why can't they do something meaningful?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U209	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U210	Good manager! Good waitress! If you read the tourism development plan, it seems that the whole plan is meant only for Tallinn and Harjumaa, there is no way to go any further. However, there is Peipsi in Estonia, which is the fourth largest lake in Europe and one of the most rich lakes in fish. When the development plan talks about small ports, we are talking about the seaside, but we do not see anywhere that one of Estonia's poorest regions, or Peipsi, could build small ports and somehow connect the Baltic Sea with Lake Peipsi, so that tourists can reach Peipsi with their yachts.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U211	Thank you. When we talk about the small ports program, the Ministry of Economic Affairs has not ruled out the small ports of Lake Peipsi. However, if we look at tourism and how small the role of maritime tourism is in Estonia, given the total volume of the market, then it is clear that opportunities are definitely hidden there. The development plan shall, where possible, take account of the economic and commercial approach. That's one. Second of all, how do you get down from Narva Falls? It's like I want to survive. Our coalition partner had in his day an idea that entered into the government union agreement that Pärnu would be created a waterway for Peipsi through inland waterways. It was the vision of the Reform Party. We've been working on that. In order to ensure that not a small boat, but a slightly larger yacht, can move along this waterway (if there is, of course, wind, but may also be put behind the engine), investments of around 300 million plus a few million euros are needed. I am not talking about environmental impacts or other rather complicated things. When we look at the demand for such a waterway, it is, let's be honest, nonexistent. This is a very expensive investment, and it is probably more reasonable to spend this money somewhere else. At the same time, I agree that the Peipsi areas have great tourist potential. I certainly do not agree with what has been said about the development plan, as if the opportunities for local tourism were excluded. I don't want to agree with that in any way. If I look at the investments made, I see that the share of investments made outside Tallinn is still significant. I think that the key issue for these regions is how to be able to act as a common force and to be more attractive and to look for their own opportunities, both in Estonia and elsewhere. This is about Saaremaa and also about Estonia to the region near Peipsi. We want to support this kind of local joint action in every way. We have a shortage of professional joint action, not hundreds of millions of euros.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U212	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U213	Thank you. One of the main objectives of the development plan is to develop tourist attractions of international interest and to support the organisation of international events in Estonia. On page 19, the development plan specifically mentions the development of sport tourism, allowing support for the establishment of such tourism infrastructure. There is one sport in Estonia that has a very wide range of enthusiasts and at the same time our results in this area are world-class. It's swimming. Unfortunately, there is no competition swimming pool in Estonia where international competitions can be conducted at a considerable level. On the basis of this development plan, does the swimming community have the hope that the Ministry of Economic Affairs will receive support for the establishment of a proper competitive swimming pool and, later on, for organising at least one or more international competitions here?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U214	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. A large increase in the number of Russian tourists is foreseen: in eight years the number of Russian tourists is expected to increase by 119%. It is believed that these tourists should, in particular, start to go to cities and consume tourist products there. Why is that? Southeast Estonia could also be won by these tourists. For example, why hasn't the Tartu-Pihkva shipping line or Värska as a health centre been reflected in this development plan? Tourists could also leave their money in Southeast Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U215	Thank you, good manager. Dear Minister, One important keyword that you also pointed out at the end of your performance is innovation. Perhaps these models have been developed, how Estonia could win the world's reputation as a tourist destination, have lived its own time. Perhaps this traditional going to trade fairs has lived its time and innovative solutions need to be found for how we can make ourselves pay. The world is changing so fast. I would like to congratulate EAS on its recent initiatives. Instead of sticking in the London subway with the same money and buying the Welcome to Estonia stickers or CNN ads, they tied the name of Estonia to one of the biggest British and world-wide pop stars that brought us hundreds of millions of contacts in the world. My colleague, Tiina Lokk, also cited such examples. Bringing international events to Estonia, whether Eurovision or the European Film Academy Award Gala, brings us a reputation. Do you agree that such things should continue?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U216	More than I agree. We can discuss this issue for a long time, but, indeed, creativity and precisely such ideas that trigger long-term events and events are very welcome. This is not a political issue, but it certainly takes political courage here. I think that members of the Riigikogu must also be bold when presenting ideas. But it's very important that we can make decisions professionally. The same investment you referred to in order to increase Estonia's profile has also received a great deal of criticism. What to deny, some arguments are understandable, but we must give our professional tourism development centre the opportunity to make such decisions. There are risks from time to time. If we're a very risky people, we'll probably be able to do it in life, but it's gonna take a little more time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U217	Tiina Lock-Tramberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U218	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I have a very specific question. Of course, I do not think that the BBC would create a flow of tourists, as I do not think that increasing the number of museums would increase the number of tourists in an unprecedented way, unless they are at the Louvre or Ermitage level. But are you familiar with the Wallenbergs' effect in the development of Swedish tourism?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U219	You cornered me with that question. I'm familiar with the Wallenbergs' many businesses, but their effect on tourism would be quite interesting to study. Honestly!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U220	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U221	Minister, thank you very much. Regional and regional centres certainly play a very important role in the implementation of such a large development plan. Can you tell me how sustainable and viable these centres are and whether this network works?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U222	In short, I say that there is much room for improvement here. These centres are largely county-based. However, we also have wider regional centres. For me and the people involved in tourism at the Ministry of Economic Affairs, it seems to me that it makes sense to have a common, natural tourism potential in this region, not only for the state but also for local authorities and often for entrepreneurs. If I am not mistaken, a regional foundation will take over Järvamaa and Ida-Virumaa, for example. I may be a person with a little fantasy in that sense, of course, but it's very difficult for me to imagine. If we think that the main function of such centres is still to help deliver a variety of tourism services better, improve quality and work with target markets, then it is quite difficult to bring these two counties together. Ida-Virumaa probably has its own possibilities, and Järvamaa's possibilities are quite different. If they're together, there's a risk of some noise. I think that some of these noise-creating organisations, which are partly supported by public money, sometimes have to work in the form of thinning.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U223	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I ask Kalev Lillo, member of the Economic Commission for the Riigikogu Chair! For the sake of history and clarity, I'm going to make an addition to the verbatim. The title "Minister of Tourism' was used here in the centre. This certainly coincides with the title 'Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications'. Please, Kalev Lillo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U224	Mr. President! I would like to thank the Minister for a thorough and balanced review and also for the debate. The Economic Commission has had two contacts with Estonia's national tourism development plan 2014 For the first time, the Ministry officials introduced this plan to us in May of this year, if I am not mistaken, on 21 May. There was a brief debate, after which the Committee on Economic Affairs asked the political groups for comments and proposals on the development plan. One group, namely the Social Democratic Party, responded to the call and forwarded its comments. Most of them were accounted for. The draft decision 461 was discussed in the Committee on Economic Affairs on 8 October, when the draft had already been formally submitted to the Riigikogu. The debate was thorough. The focus was on a few questions, which can also be pointed out here today on the subject of setting up a conference centre and family tourism centres. There were also talk about formal issues that were still in this Chamber today. Concerns were expressed because it is no longer possible to correct this document in the Riigikogu; we can only accept it or reject it. However, as I said at the beginning, there was, in fact, an opportunity to contribute to the development plan, namely in the spring. Those who took this opportunity were listened to. We also touched on the subject of objectives and measures. There was an interest in whether the real vision for the development of Tallinn Airport was included in the development plan, which foresees that Tallinn will become a connecting point in the air traffic between Europe and Asia. We have received the answer that such a plan must definitely not be cornered, it must be dealt with, because if it does not, nothing will ever happen. This is a brief overview of what took place in the Commission. The Commission unanimously adopted a decision to place the draft on the agenda for today's sitting and to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 17 o'clock on 23 October 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U225	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Imre Sooääre, representative of the Estonian Reform Party Group, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U226	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U227	Thank you. I would like to ask Kajar Lemberi, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, for a speech chair in the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U228	In fact, there is still a lot of fog in the air in the context of concrete measures and applications, and the government should speak with a much louder voice about the action plans in this sector. It is felt that the government does not want to assume clear responsibility and is only expected of European money, but entrepreneurs and potential tourists already want concrete answers that are possible and not possible. Among other things, a number of concrete proposals were made for the scheme in order to clarify, for example, the potential of future transport links. In addition to islands, these connections are vital for the tourism sector in Tartumaa and South Estonia as a whole. However, these proposals were not taken into account, claiming that this is not the subject of this scheme, although these issues actually relate. At least in the context of large national sites and transport connections, certain guidelines could be in place. If we are not now very clear about the activities of the whole national projects, then it is doubtful that these plans will become a reality in the coming years. To sum it up, I'm sure it's a better plan than an unplanned one. Today, at least one step has been taken and a new development plan for the tourism sector will soon be in place. There is an urgent need to take action so that the beautiful piece of writing can become the projects that have been carried out. To this end, I would like strength for all of us, but first and foremost for the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U229	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft 461 should be completed. I will set the deadline for tabling 461 amendments. 23 October 2010 at 5 p.m. The first reading is closed and the fourth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U230	Ladies and gentlemen, Tourism plays an important and growing role in Estonia's overall economic development. Believe it or not, SDE also understands that, in addition to other important factors, the state will become more prosperous through economic growth, and therefore considers this development plan to be very important. According to the latest data, tourism already accounts for more than 6% of Estonia's GDP. In addition, there are just as many employed people who get jobs because of tourism. In total, it's not that little. This is an area that clearly needs state support, and it is therefore certainly good that this plan is here to be approved today. The declared objective of the plan is to ensure Estonia's competitiveness and international attractiveness as a tourist country. The effectiveness of the scheme can be assessed through the increase in exports of services and the number of overnight stays of tourists in Estonia. In addition, there are a lot of nuances that directly affect regional development, including employment. The management of many people living in Estonia's rural areas is also linked to this field. We often consider ourselves a bigger tourist country than we really are. Looking at the number of tourists per capita overnight stays, we are only the tenth place in Europe. Given our small population and the relatively large number of countries per person in Estonia, there is still considerable room for improvement here. Without clear priorities and action to ensure that this business environment develops, we will certainly not rise forward in this ranking. The visibility of Estonia as a travel destination needs to be increased in neighbouring countries, but also further away. In the development plan, these activities, which are intended to introduce Estonia to new target groups, are beautifully read out. It's done, I think, a pretty good job. However, there is certainly a need for state support so that Estonian tourism companies find innovative ways to develop new tourism products and services and improve the quality of existing tourism products and services. In particular, the public sector needs to take the lead in the movement of tourism information out of the country, as well as in the introduction of fresh information, as an effective tourism information system is essential, particularly for small and medium-sized enterprises, where it cannot be dealt with. I very much agree that in order to increase the competitiveness of the tourism sector in the regions, it is necessary to encourage and support the development of regional tourism products at national level and to create synergies between these sites. From a regional development point of view, tourism contributes directly to reducing regional disparities, which is already one of the most important economic activities in rural areas. It is important that Estonia can be viewed as a whole, but at the same time the specific characteristics of the regions are not forgotten. It should be taken into account that the increase in the number of tourists will also increase the burden on the public sector. On the one hand, it can be expected that this growth will also lead to revenue for the public sector on the ground, but that growth must be prepared. If a company is able to get ahead of the public sector, it needs to be operational. It is certainly a very important regional network that already exists. This must not be a loser in the new budget period, but rather a contribution is needed. The Minister referred to some perhaps not the best-functioning structures. They should certainly be further developed, not drawn together in any way, because cooperation is a key word in the tourism sector. Although the main implementer of the national tourism policy has become the EAS, the successful implementation of this scheme requires continuous cooperation between the relevant authorities and the tourism sector. It doesn't happen by itself. Life has shown it very clearly. Here, the public sector needs a locomotive to work together. For my part, I congratulate the Estonian Tourism and Local Food Support Group of the Riigikogu, who took the development plan seriously and said the floor. I would also like to point out, as a positive point, that the involvement of stakeholders was quite diligent, but there were certainly a number of sensible proposals that unfortunately remained outside the development plan. As a party, SDE has presented its views, which largely concerned the importance of the development of nature and maritime tourism, the collection and use of tourism data, and the quality assessment of catering establishments. They were partly accounted for, but figuratively speaking too softly. We certainly would have liked to have gotten more into the development plan. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U231	Good fellows! A letter from the Stenbock House has arrived at the board of the Riigikogu. The government wants the Government to present a presentation at the debate on today's fifth item, the draft law amending the Law on the Organisation of Health Services, initiated by the Government of the Republic, at first reading, by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Riigikogu speech chair Juhan Parts, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U232	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government will submit a draft amendment to the Health Services Organisation Act. The main content of the proposal is the change in the organisation of the financing of compulsory psychiatric treatment. If psychiatric coercive treatment has been financed by the Ministry of Justice so far, this obligation would be transferred to the Ministry of Social Affairs, who would also be transferred to budgetary resources intended to cover both the direct costs of psychiatric coercive treatment and administrative costs at ministerial level. The draft is planned to enter into force as a law on 1 January 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U233	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U234	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You have a good day. You yourself said you were the Minister of Tourism, and now you have the opportunity to try the work of the Minister of Justice. I'm afraid you can't answer my question, the Minister of Justice would answer that question. But I'm still asking. Maybe Reet Roos will answer that question later. In the Commission, it was said that, in addition to the obligation, the Ministry of Social Affairs will receive money, and the money is now even more than the Ministry of Justice had to use it. But the draft explanatory memorandum states that this law does not entail any additional costs for the state budget. So, what's the extra money coming to the Ministry of Social Affairs for? But I would rather put this question in writing, because I am afraid that you will not be able to answer that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U235	Thank you. There's no reason to be afraid. There will be no direct supplement to what is currently foreseen in the Ministry of Justice's budget for the costs of the implementation of psychiatric coercive treatment. Perhaps in 2014, the budget simply envisages more money, because some costs are increasing. It's a particular institution, the Nastyfoot Hospital, you know that. Although forced psychiatric treatment in itself is linked to criminal proceedings, it is not a direct punishment but a substitute for it. In view of the content, this change makes sense, in my opinion, because it is certainly the more professional Ministry of Social Affairs in this regard. The powers under law to regulate this matter more precisely are vested in the Minister of Social Affairs and it is reasonable that it should also be financed by his ministry. However, the financial figures certainly depend on the budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U236	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U237	Thank you. Mr. Minister! I mean, coercive treatment goes to the administration of the Ministry of Justice under the administration of the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Ministry of Social Affairs is still more involved in helping and treating people, but these are, to a certain extent, repressive measures. How will the responsibility for the implementation of these measures, as well as the competence for this, go over? With regard to certain operational nuances, the Ministry of Justice has always held the competence.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U238	Thank you. I don't really agree with your principled attitude. The coercion is not really a punishment, it may sound weird, but it's a medical service. The name also says that the service is still intended to treat a criminal who has psychiatric disabilities and is not responsible for criminal matters. Hopefully, it is clear that law enforcement authorities and health care providers need to cooperate here. The contract with Jamejala Hospital is also taken over by the Ministry of Social Affairs. The prosecutor's office remains competent for supervision of criminal proceedings. However, as far as healthcare is concerned, everything here is regulated exactly as is the case with other health services.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U239	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Reet Roosi, member of the Social Committee of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U240	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft law amending the Health Services Organisation Act at the meeting of the Commission on 7 October. Anne Kruusement, Adviser to the Criminal Law and Procedure Department of the Ministry of Justice, and Ingrid Ots-Vaik, Head Specialist of the Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, and Teet Torgo, Legal Adviser to the Legal Department, participated. First, Anne Kruusement, Adviser to the Department of Penal Law and Procedure of the Ministry of Justice, gave an overview of the draft. The representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs then confirmed that the draft had been submitted in agreement with the ministries. We had some questions, too. First, the chairman of the committee, Margus Tsahkna, examined whether the amount of money would remain the same. We learned that even EUR 280400 comes in addition to the amount prescribed for compulsory psychiatric treatment. This is probably due to the redistribution of money within the ministry. I think so, but it is not certain, because the budget for next year is just coming to the debate. We'll check it out. Yana Toom asked if this takeover was imposed on the Ministry of Social Affairs. The representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs confirmed, as one word, that this took place with the agreement of the ministries and that everyone was very pleased with the draft. Maret Maripuu asked if there were any queues for forced treatment. We found out there were no queues. The court does not have to put patients in line and the service is guaranteed for all. The Commission decided by consensus that the debate on the draft would be put on the agenda today. The Commission proposed that the first reading be completed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on the 10 working days provided for in the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, 30 October 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-16_U241	Good waitress, thank you for your presentation. There are no questions. I would ask the representatives of the political groups to participate in the negotiations if that is what they want. No wish, no negotiations. The Commission's proposal is that the first reading of draft 495 should be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 495 amendments. a at 5.15 p.m. on 30 October. The first reading is closed and the fifth item is also closed. Good fellows, today's session is closed. Closure of the sitting at 4.31 p.m.
