ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-23_U1	Good fellows, good guests, good morning. We will begin the 15th working week Thursday session of the plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over the drafts or inquiries to the Riigikogu. Colleague Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-23_U2	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the members of the Central Party Group, I have the honour to address an inquiry to Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas. This enquiry concerns dental benefits. Namely, children under 19 years of age, pensioners and pregnant women are currently entitled to dental benefits. I remind you of the amount of this compensation to expand your horizons at EUR 19 per year. I don't know how many years it takes to raise that money so I can put a couple of seals away. In this context, we have four questions for the Minister of Social Affairs. The main of these, of course, concerns when the state is planning to reimburse those who work and what the Minister thinks of these amounts once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-23_U3	Riigikogu speech chair Rait Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-23_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, It is a pleasure for me to hand over the draft on the amendment of party law from the point of view of the funding of political parties. This bill has a long history that started about a year ago...
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-23_U5	Good waitress, sorry! Good fellows, there's a lot of noise coming from every corner of the hall. I ask that we respect the waitress and those who wish to hear the presentation! Please, waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-23_U6	This draft has a long history, which began a year ago, but at that time the arguments raised and the accusations made, as you know, remained, unfortunately without a rule of law outcome, or judicial solution. It is recalled that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs called on political scientists and various institutions to put forward proposals to improve the situation. There was a serious response and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs started working on these proposals. Then came the initiative of the Charter and the Retirement Plater and came together as a people's assembly. The work so far in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs was pending. The political groups of the Riigikogu also expressed their views on the proposals of the Riigikogu. The draft is therefore based on proposals from social scientists, the Riigikogu and the political groups of the Riigikogu. The purpose of the draft is to clarify the basis for the funding of political parties and the monitoring of the funding. The aim is to clarify the funding of political parties and, more specifically, to limit the sources of revenue for political parties, while providing for more effective monitoring mechanisms and sanctions. The draft specifies the content of the donations and the list of prohibited donations, sets limits on lending activities and the economic activities of the party, increases the state budget support for political parties that have not exceeded the electoral threshold but received at least 2% of the votes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-23_U7	Good waitress, your time is up.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-23_U8	We were left unsolved in the Commission on some issues, among others, of party advertising and...
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-23_U9	Good waitress, sorry, your time is up and I'm asking you to hand over this bill!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-23_U10	I invite you to work along and present your proposals.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-23_U11	Dear colleagues, on behalf of the Bureau, I have adopted a draft and an inquiry. According to our Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on their further processing. Let's move on to the messages. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded questions from the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi and to the Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimitus. Dear colleagues, today and tomorrow, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe will hold its meeting in the conference hall of the Riigikogu, a committee for monitoring the implementation of the commitments made by the Member States, chaired by our good colleague Andres Herkel. I am pleased to announce that visitors from 23 of the Member States of the Council of Europe are watching the meeting of today's Riigikogu from the balcony of the Chamber. Let's welcome our guests. [[Let's hear it.]] Now, let's do the presence check. 85 members registered to be present, 16 missing.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-23_U12	Let's start working on the items on today's agenda. The first item is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act and the Advertising Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I'm opening negotiations. Please ask the representative of the Estonian Centre Party Group Marika Tuus-Lauli for the speech chair of the Riigikogu! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-23_U13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a good sitting. From yesterday's Eesti Päevaleht we could read again how the people of Estonia are in over their heads. It is a sad fact, but the bailiff is currently carrying out compulsory executions for some 100,000 private debtors. Thus, about a tenth of Estonian adults have a bailiff standing at the door, or a sixth of households are at risk of their bank accounts being seized. That's a huge number. In many ways, lending is just the face of quick loans. The problem isn't born yesterday, it's years old. Two years ago, in the spring of 2011...
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-23_U14	Dear waitress, I'm sorry. Good fellows, there's too much noise in the hall. I beg you to keep your voice down!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-23_U15	Already two years ago, in spring 2011, the Consumer Protection Board, which supervises the provision of fast-track loans, drew attention to the problems that emerged in practice. However, the Consumer Protection Board also opened its eyes only after the entry into force of the European Consumer Credit Directive on responsible lending, where problems with the advertising of credit companies were important. In March last year, a joint meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Finance and Legal Affairs was convened to instruct the government to prepare legislative changes for the Riigikogu. In January of this year, the Committee on Legal Affairs has dealt with this draft law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-23_U16	Good co-worker, I beg you not to disturb my colleagues in this room. I beg you, we'll both be quiet for a moment, so we can talk in the hall, and then we can move on to the hearing! Thank you, Marika Tuus-Laul! We can both go on now.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-23_U17	So this bill has been dealt with for a long time. The Centre Party Group sincerely hoped, by the way, to contribute actively to the amendments, by helping to find some solution to this point, we are taking the problem by the horns, without denying radical changes. I cannot say that the Commission lacked the goodwill of making lending more responsible. I think it was rather a lack of courage to solve the problem, to regulate and to reform it more strictly. I took the easy way of resisting, decided to look at how Finland was doing and delayed solving the problem. The lobby of the Estonian Banking Association and the Estonian Association of Liising Associations played a role here. When she handed over the bill in January, Minister of Justice Hanno Pevkur made clear that the purpose of this bill was to prevent over-indebtedness. Indeed, Estonia's concerns are people who have borrowed themselves and whose debt burden is several times greater than their income, i.e. the lender has not actually taken into account the situation of the borrower or its payment burden. However, unfortunately, we are not solving this fundamental problem with this bill now. In fact, we should look at how much money a person should have in order to obtain a certain amount of credit. Unfortunately, this proposal from the Centre Party Group was not taken into account. In the context of the debate on the bill, the issue of setting an annual consumer credit rate, for example in Finland, was also raised, above which interest should not be charged. This would also define the concept of usury. However, with regard to this problem, we cannot only take over one part of the legal system of another country, but we must look at this problem in its entirety. In particular, we should create a law on the recovery of debts here, under which the recovery of debts could not give rise to unreasonable costs or inconvenience for the debtor. This law would also set maximum amounts that may be required, for example, for a debt reminder (in Finland this amount is up to EUR 5, usually EUR 15 in Estonia), for sending payment claims or for changing the payment schedule. There are currently no laws in Estonia with such content. Therefore, if an annual interest rate cap is to be set, consideration should be given in particular to the drafting of a debt recovery law that would prevent lenders from increasing the remuneration of ancillary claims. In fact, it is quite interesting why those in favour of a liberal market economy are afraid to formally adopt the term usury, while in many European countries usury is punishable by criminal penalties. After all, the predatory percentages that the lender takes from the client are directly usury, which should be punished. At the moment, in our ultra-liberal country, there are only indicative rates of good practice in the area of credit cost, which the other party simply laughs at. There is also laughter at people who are unable to pay their overnight house expenses bills or who have no other way out than to take a fast-track loan to pay debts they have taken in the past. That's how you borrow yourself, but at the same time, I'm sorry, crooks who get thousands of percent gain, we have good entrepreneurs and the right men after all. Strange country! We are surprised that the members of the Reform Party and the IRL support the mass television advertising of fast-track loans, as the amendment tabled by the Central Party Group to ban mass outdoor and television advertising was voted down. You say that it is as if it could be restricted, but it cannot be banned, because it does not comply with the principles of a liberal economic model. However, we have done so in the case of advertising for casinos and tobacco products. It should also be considered whether, as in Finland, a consumer protection mechanism should be introduced that would not allow the creditor to immediately claim interest from the late consumer or to impose other financial obligations in the event of a person's illness, unemployment or any other social circumstance. In Finland, however, it can be seen that the consumer is being tried to help, but we are considered morally guilty when you borrowed yourself, which is your own problem. Which means you're a wuss, stupid and lazy. To sum it up. Although the draft does not solve the problem of over- and over-borrowing, it is at least a small step towards reasonable borrowing and understanding of problems. We support this bill, but on condition that we come back to the subject in the autumn, as promised here. We very much hope that we will then make more radical decisions and curb malicious lenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-23_U18	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We will begin the preparation of the final vote on the draft 347. Good colleagues, I'm going to put a draft to the final vote on 347. Please take a stand and vote. There were 80 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. The draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act and the Advertising Act initiated by the Government of the Republic 347 has been adopted as a law. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-23_U19	Let's move on to the second item. The second reading of the draft law amending the Copyright Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask for a presentation by Paul-Eerik Rummo, Member of the Cultural Commission of the Speaking Chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-23_U20	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Riigikogu! The first reading of this draft took place on 10 April and no amendments were received from the members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees by the deadline set for submitting the amendments on that day. The Committee on Culture discussed sending the draft to second reading and determined that no amendments had been tabled, while it decided itself to propose drafting amendments so that the text of the draft would be unambiguous, that there would be no indirect references and resoundings in the text, and that everything that was intended to be said would be clearly stated in each provision. This meeting of the Committee on Culture took place on 13 May. For the second time, the Commission addressed this issue on 21 May with a view to reconsidering and confirming its procedural decisions. It was decided to send this draft to second reading this week and to propose to the Riigikogu that the second reading be completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-23_U21	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Good waitress, thank you! Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. We will begin the examination of the amendments to draft 394. Three amendments have been received, all from the lead committee. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is that the second reading should be terminated. Second reading of Bill 394 has been completed and the second item has also been dealt with. Good fellows, today's session is closed. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 10:18 a.m.
