ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister. We will begin the Monday session of the fourth working week of the plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. First, please, the representative of the Government of the Republic of Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U2	Madam Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is launching five draft laws today. Firstly, the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act and the Code of Civil Procedure. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Justice, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Secondly, the draft Act of Accession to the 1996 Protocol to the 1972 Convention on the Prevention of Pollution from Waste and Other Substances. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of the Environment, will represent the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Third, the draft museum law. Rein Lang, Minister of Culture, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law in the Riigikogu. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure. Fifthly, the draft law supplementing § 199 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Ken-Marti Vaher, the Minister of the Interior, represents the Government of the Republic in the processing of these two draft laws in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U3	Thank you. Please, colleague Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am honoured to present an inquiry on behalf of 13 Social Democrats to Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas. Inquiry concerns risk families and care for children and children with special needs. The inquiry is motivated by the report of the National Audit Office. We have six questions to ask the Minister for Social Affairs to answer. I will briefly mention what this report has dealt with. Estonia is known as a country where social spending is among the lowest in the European Union. Some social scientists have called our society a risk society. Over 60,000 children live in poverty in Estonia and the parents of a large number of children are recipients of income support. The National Audit Office's report also shows that child welfare and child protection require greater and faster intervention by the state in order to improve the situation. Children's welfare and child welfare issues are mostly organised by municipalities, while around 60% of Estonian municipalities do not have a child welfare worker or do not have enough of these employees. Municipalities therefore do not have an overview of children belonging to risk groups. The care of children with special needs, where local authorities have very different capacities, is a particular concern. "Unsocially adaptable families" are often regarded as risky families, for whom it is risky to pay children's allowance directly to parents. However, there are also risks to families who face the challenges of disadvantaged conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U5	Thank you. Please, Mr Mati Raidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U6	Madam Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, According to the decision of the National Defence Committee of 11 February, the National Defence Committee will submit a draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international duties of the Estonian state in the composition of the NATO Permanent Marine Force Group' to the Riigikogu'. According to the draft, Estonia will contribute to the NATO permanent group of naval forces up to 15 members of the Defence Forces, filling the respective posts on military vessels belonging to the Federal Republic of Germany, participating in SNMG1, including operations of Ocean Shield and Active Endeavour until 31 December 2013. The tasks of the Estonian Defence Forces include, in addition to normal ship crew activities, ensuring the safety of the ship in accordance with the international mandate of Ocean Shield and Active Endeavour operations, controlling civilian ships and their cargo, with the aim of detecting vessels engaged in piracy. Ülo Tulik, Member of the National Defence Commission Committee, will represent Ülo Tulik when the draft is being processed in the Riigikogu. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U7	Thank you! Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U8	Madam President! I have an inquiry to report to Home Affairs Minister Ken-Marti Vaher, the subject of which is statistics on corruption crimes committed by police and Border Guard personnel. According to the Annual Books of Crime in Estonia 2010 and Crime in Estonia 2011 prepared in the Criminal Policy Department of the Ministry of Justice, the number of corruption crimes committed by the Police and Border Guard Board staff is increasing both in absolute numbers and in percentage terms. For example, in 2010 and 2011, police personnel committed 35 and 47 corruption crimes, representing 13% and 24% of the total number of corruption offences in that year. This leads to some questions for the Minister of the Interior. One thing I read out: how does the minister explain that in 2011 one of the fourth corruption offenders in Estonia was an employee of the Police and Border Guard Board that he led? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U9	Thank you. Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U10	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. On behalf of a member of the Central Party Group, I have an inquiry to report to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. On 9 February Eesti Energia announced the price of the general service in January. The general service price, which is derived from the exchange price and the cost-based margin, was 5.84 euro cents per kilowatt hour in January. At the same time, the company offered a stock exchange price-based electricity package at a variable price of 5.4 eurocents per kilowatt-hour. Taking into account the exchange price, the variable margin of the electricity package plus VAT was 0.29 cents and the general service margin was 0.72 cents per kilowatt-hour. When comparing the margin of the Estonian Energia general service with the margins of other companies, it turns out that the sales margin of Eesti Energia was 47% more expensive than the cheapest general service margin. At the press conference of the Government of the Republic held on 27 September last year, Minister Juhan Parts expressed the opinion that a household consumer who does not have electric heating does not have to worry about the opening up of the electricity market and can freely choose the general service. He also said at the press conference: 'I am in a somewhat controversial role as Minister for Economic Affairs, but as a consumer, I myself have thought that the person who does not use electric heating is likely to act in the most sensible way and, for the time being, goes on to this general service. " We have four questions about the minister's counsel, or the most reasonable conduct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U11	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Bureau, I have adopted six drafts and three inquiries. If the drafts comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide to process them within three working days. If inquiries comply with this law, I shall immediately forward them to the addressee. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: Social Democratic Party Group. a Draft Act amending § 21 of the Basic Schools and Upper Secondary Schools Act, initiated on 30 January, of which the commission is the Committee on Culture; Isamaa and Res Publica Union faction. a Draft decision of the Riigikogu "Construction of the Special Committee on the Application of the Anti-Corruption Act' submitted on 31 January, the leading committee of which is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; in the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu. A draft of the Riigikogu decision "Revocation of a member of the Supervisory Board of the Stabilisation Reserve and appointment of a new member', submitted on 31 January 2008, of which the commission is the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. The following drafts and communications to the Commission on European Union affairs were submitted on 31 January and 7 February 2004: Firstly, a draft Decision of the European Parliament and of the Council on a temporary derogation from Directive 2003/87/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the Community. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Government of the Republic's position and the Committee on the Environment and Economic Affairs to give an opinion on the draft decision. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. February 14th at 4 p.m. Secondly, a draft Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on access to genetic resources and fair and equitable sharing of the benefits of their use in the European Union. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Environment Committee to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the draft regulation. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. February 14th at 4 p.m. Thirdly, a draft Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Council Regulation (EC) No 1346/2000 on insolvency proceedings. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Legal Affairs Committee to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the draft regulation. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. February 14th at 4 p.m. Fourthly, a draft Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on occurrence reporting in civil aviation and amending Regulation (EU) No 996/2010 and repealing Directive 2003/42/EC, Commission Regulation (EC) No 1321/2007. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed an Economic Commission to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and the draft regulation. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. February 21, 2010 at 4 p.m. Fifthly, the Communication from the European Commission to the European Parliament, the Council, the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions on Using Cloud Computing in Europe. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed an Economic Commission to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and on the communication. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. February 21, 2010 at 4 p.m. Sixthly, the Communication from the European Commission to the European Parliament, the Council and the European Economic and Social Committee on the participation of the European Union in the Council of Europe's Community against Corruption (GRECO). The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Constitutional Committee to give an opinion on the positions and communication of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. February 21, 2010 at 4 p.m. I have forwarded the questioning of the members of the Riigikogu to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 84 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 17. Let's go to the adoption of this week's agenda. May I have your attention first? The Committee on Economic Affairs has proposed to remove agenda item 4, second reading of draft law amending the Electricity Market Act 318, from Wednesday's agenda. With this clarification, I shall put the resolution of the weekly agenda to the vote. Please vote! 81 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 2 against and 1 abstention. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U12	We will start working on the points on today's agenda. Answering questions begins. The first item is the inquiry submitted by Priit Toobali, Ester Tuiksoo, Tarmo Tamme, Kalev Kallo, Valeri Korbi, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Enn Eesmaa, Peeter Võsa, Aivar Riisalu, Viktor Vassilyev and Aadu Musta on 12 December last year for the leakage of state secrets. Please, colleague of the speaker's desk, Priit Toobali!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! On 12 December last year, I, along with several colleagues from the Central Party, discussed an inquiry with Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. It's about the leakage of state secrets. The purpose of the state secret is to ensure the security of the Republic of Estonia by protecting state secrets against disclosure and disclosure to persons without right of access. A person entitled to access a state secret shall be obliged to keep a secret from the state secret which has become known to him. In Äripäev's newspaper of December 7, last year, an article entitled "Kapo Warned About Businessmen Dominating a Public Company" was published. The article tells readers the story of how the Defence Police Department sent ministers and the President a secret report pointing to possible risks in the search for the new head of EVR Cargo. As far as business day is concerned, the report from the Defence Police Department sent to the government concerns the influential business leaders of EVR Cargo, who are involved in the transport of goods by rail, who tried to set up a suitable person to run the state company. The names of Ahto Altjõe and four other businessmen who applied to be the Chairman of the Board of EVR Cargo went through the report of the Defence Police Department. Despite a warning from the Defence Police Department, the Ahto Altjõe was still elected head of EVR Cargo. This case is, in our view, a regrettable example of how Minister Juhan Parts of the Government of the Republic does not take into account the report of the Defence Police and the security risks of the State. There is also an obvious security risk of a secret report reaching the press. We asked the Prime Minister five questions. I'm not going to read the questions. I hope that the Prime Minister will read the question and then answer it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U14	Thank you very much, Mr Toobal. To answer the Prime Minister's question, please ask the speaker.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U15	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs! I'll answer your questions. The first question: 'How many situations do the Defence Police Department not take into account and respond to threats to national security? "Defence police threat assessments and reviews are information collected secretly in the performance of their duties and have been recognised as secret state secrets. It is not possible to hold a debate on whether or not to take account of them in public because of the protection of state secrets. The second question: 'Who specifically decides which report of the Defence Police Department must be considered important and taken into account and which one does not? ' These reviews and threat assessments are informative and do not have a defined role in the decision-making process. It is good practice that the decision-maker should be aware of the potential security risks. That's what the defense police stand for. Question 3: 'How do you assess, as Prime Minister, the fact that the secret report from the Defence Police Department leaked into the press and do you know how it happened? ' The information published in the Äripäev article has been verified by the Defence Police Department, as far as I know, and has come to the conclusion that state secrets are not being made public. The fact that the Defence Police Department prepares security reviews is not in itself a state secret. The reporter has also been able to collect information from other sources, including those involved. On the content of the threat assessments by the Defence Police Department, I do not consider speculation in the press to be a good tone. Question 4: 'How do you assess, as Prime Minister, the fact that the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, did not take account of the Defence Police report for the election of the Chairman of the Board of EVR Cargo? ' According to the Commercial Code, the board of directors of the company is elected and decided by the company's supervisory board, not by the general meeting. Question 5: "Which solutions do you see that such materials containing state secrets do not reach the public? Could the solution be to change the procedures or narrow the circle of recipients of information? ' I repeat, in this case, the Department of Defence has estimated that the state secret has not leaked. However, it must be said that Sir Humphrey's well - known saying is the best way to keep state secrets: 'Whoever wants to keep something secret must keep it a secret that he has a secret to keep. ' Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U16	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U17	Thank you. Prime Minister! You presented a very beautiful pun in answer to the last question. You said that, as far as you know this time, there was no leakage of state secrets in the case of the story on which the inquiry has been made. But, according to your memory, have we been leaking state secrets to the press lately? Do you remember any such events, or are we completely cleansed of this sin?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U18	In memory ops, I have a memory that there have been some leaks somewhere that have been discussed. In this case, the Defence Police Department has come to the conclusion that state secrets have not been leaked, but it is not possible to give one answer to what sources of information are, whether they are reliable or not. Firstly, because, as I said, I do not consider it possible to discuss these matters openly. Secondly, we don't know these sources.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U19	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Prime Minister! You said that according to the Department of Defense, this case has nothing to do with a state secret leak. Can you tell me if the Department of Defense has conducted an investigation and on what basis he started it, on this business day story? What did the Defense Police Department do to find out if the secret had leaked or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U21	As far as I know, the Defence Police Department has analysed what was published in the press and has come to the unambiguous conclusion that this is not the case with a state secret leak.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U22	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U23	Thank you. You said it wasn't a matter of leaking state secrets, but in fact, in recent years, there has been a great deal of leaking of defence police material. Do you think it's normal?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U24	'Very much' is such a general statement that it is difficult for me to comment in any way. Basically, no data should leak from the Department of Defense. If anyone can prove leaks, all they can say is that leaks are extremely unfortunate. You can't leak.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U25	No further questions. Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U26	Let's go to the next question. Riigikogu members Rainer Vakra, Deniss Borodich, Lembit Kaljuvee, Inara Luigas and Kalle Laanet submitted an inquiry on 13 December last year on the costs of inspections by national inspectors and inspectors. Mr Vakra's speaker, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U27	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Five members of the Riigikogu, Kalle Laanet, Inara Luigas, Lembit Kaljuvee, Deniss Borodich and Rainer Vakra, have submitted an inquiry into the costs of inspections by national inspectors and inspectors. In short, this inquiry can be summed up by the idea that more and more orders and taxes are coming. As such, the voice of the islands, where it was even called a national anomaly, reflected this issue. For some time there has been a situation in Estonia where inspectors and inspectors are carrying out random checks on their working time (at that time they are paid by the state) in companies. However, an invoice shall be submitted to the undertaking at a later date, based on the hourly fee of the inspector. In the above article NGO Estonian Rural Tourism Chairman Signe Sarah Arro said that this is not just one company, but the problem is much more general. This has been confirmed by the managers of several service and catering establishments, who say that paying for unscheduled work by inspectors is a daily activity. In connection with this, we have the following questions for the Prime Minister. Does the government consider it appropriate to pay for the costs of random checks carried out by national inspectors and inspectors by the operator? Does this practice not create an additional risk of corruption and unequal treatment of undertakings which are more frequently controlled than others? Has the budget included the fees due for such spot checks? Is it intended to compensate operators retroactively for the costs incurred in carrying out an unjustified control activity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U28	Thank you very much, Mr Vakra. Mr. Prime Minister's speaking desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U29	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs! I'll answer your questions. The first question: 'Does the government consider it appropriate to pay for the costs of random checks by national inspectors and inspectors by the operator? ' In order to carry out all the necessary food safety checks, the general principle that the costs are borne by the operator has already been observed since 1999 when the law was introduced in the case of monitoring activities under the Food Act. Until 2009, it took the form of state fees. A system of monitoring fees was then introduced to ensure that taxes collected from operators are used for the purpose of national food safety controls. This has also been a general principle in the European Union as a whole. Previously, the annual state fee had to be paid for the handling of the company regardless of whether or not the monitoring activities were carried out in the company this year. The current surveillance hourly rate system is more equitable as it is imputable to the activities carried out in the company on a cost-based basis. OÜ Pilguse Manor, mentioned in the article of Saarte Võik, cited by the heirs, paid a food inspection fee of 15.46 euros in 2011. No food safety control activities were carried out in this company in 2012, and therefore no obligation to pay the supervisory fee could arise. The second question: Does this practice not create an additional risk of corruption and unequal treatment for undertakings which are more frequently controlled than others? ' The inspection activities of the Food and Veterinary Office shall be carried out on the basis of legislation. The frequency and scope of inspections shall be based on monitoring plans and shall be risk-based. Each company shall take into account its size, field of activity, previous control results, level of risk and other relevant factors. The third question: "Does the budget include the fees due for such random checks? ' The volume of surveillance operations, including spot checks, shall be based on a monitoring plan, the implementation of which shall also be budgetaryly planned. The supervisory fee is paid into the current account of the Veterinary and Food Board, which is included in the group account of the Ministry of Finance. No additional checks shall be carried out for the purpose of additional revenue. Question 4: Is the costs incurred by undertakings in carrying out an unjustified control activity intended to be reimbursed retroactively? ' As has been said, the Food and Veterinary Office is working on the basis of legislation and a monitoring plan. According to the Ministry of Agriculture, the Office has not carried out any unjustified control activities and there are no grounds for claiming compensation. Each operator can lodge a complaint against the decisions of the Food and Veterinary Office, for example in accordance with the procedure laid down in § 51 of the Food Act or apply to the Court of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U30	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U31	Thank you. Prime Minister! I have listened to your answers and I agree with what you said, but I must add that the same situation that is written in the voice of the islands has been spoken to me several times by the entrepreneurs of South Estonia. The number of inspectors who go to companies has grown very high. I recall the words of one of the company's women's leaders: 'You'll be young men, you'll have shiny briefcases in your hands, you'll be walking around the factory for an hour and cashing money. ' Maybe we've gotten a little too wide-ranging in the control of entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U32	Thank you. I want to believe that no one will be checked for nothing. It is still in the interests of consumers in particular. This article has been the result of a surprising claim that EUR 3000 has been paid for the verification. As I have already mentioned, EUR 15.46 was actually paid for two years. I also think that EUR 3000 would be an obvious overestimation; EUR 15.46 is perfectly understandable to me.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U33	Thank you. Any more questions for the waitress? No further questions for the rapporteur. Any requests for negotiation? There are no negotiating requests either. I will stop dealing with this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U34	We're going to the third question. Members of the Riigikogu Valeri Korb, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Priit Toobal, Lauri Laas, Vladimir Velman and Marika Tuus-Laul submitted an inquiry to the Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas on 16 January 2013 regarding the availability of services for disabled people. I'll take the manager's one-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U35	Break's over. I ask Mikhail Stalnukhin to speak on behalf of the speakers of the chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U36	Madam President! Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Colleagues, I'm sorry! Something very fast has gone on here today to deal with questions. I didn't get there in time. But that's it. Dear Mr. Taavi in the garment! We have some questions for you regarding the availability of services for disabled people. The aim of the rehabilitation service is to improve the individual's self-sufficiency, to encourage his or her working or taking up work and to increase participation in society. The aim is to contribute to the development and education of a disabled child, to support the willingness of a person of working age to take up or remain in employment and to improve the self-sufficiency of an elderly person. Within the framework of the rehabilitation plan, special care can be used to ensure the best livelihood. To apply for this service and some special care services, you must contact the Social Insurance Board. If there is no money in the state budget for a special care service, or if there is no vacancy with a suitable service provider, the Social Insurance Institution will inform the person in writing that he or she has been queued. When a suitable place is released, the case manager of the Social Insurance Board will contact the person himself. It should be noted, however, that the waiting period for publicly financed services is long, sometimes very long, but cannot be denied to those in need, as these people need immediate help to restore their health and to ensure their self-sufficiency, based on their state of health. As a result, many local authorities are forced to cover the costs of special care instead of the state. This is happening at a time when the budgetary situation of local governments is already very tense. We hope that we will hear something positive from you, Mr Minister, in response to the four questions that have been asked. I ask the Minister to read the questions himself in order to save time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U37	Thank you. I'm asking for Secretary of State for Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U38	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable heirs and Riigikogu! Question 1: "Does the Ministry of Social Affairs have any information on how many people are currently in line for rehabilitation? ' Yes, he does. In 2012, 13850 persons, including 6408 children, were provided with the service. The full-age population became 7442 people, including those with mental disorders, 2326, the disabled 2680 and the working age of 2436. We can also send these figures to you in writing so that you can have a detailed overview, because the bill is quite a lot here. The current administrative agreement has been concluded with 106 institutions. We also have a report on the order of most authorities, but we have not yet received 18 reports, so that the queue information may not be fully accurate or exhaustive. On the basis of the 88 institutions which have submitted the report, they have estimated that s. a as of 5 January, 1,1314 persons, including 2492 children applying for disability or disability, 7239 persons of adult age applying for disability or disability, 1571 persons of working age permanently unable to work, and 12 children placed in line at the discretion of the juvenile commission. The Ministry of Social Affairs is changing the organisation of rehabilitation services. The aim is, firstly, to ensure the provision of a needs-based rehabilitation service, secondly, to improve the quality of the service, thirdly, to ensure a comprehensive approach to solving the individual's problems in the provision of the service, fourthly, to specify the purpose of the rehabilitation service, i.e. to link it more to working life and social coping, fifthly, to ensure more efficient and effective use of resources, i.e. to reduce the maximum number of professionals involved in the preparation of the rehabilitation service from five to three, as well as to reduce the preparation of rehabilitation plans, if the person is directed directly to the rehabilitation programme. These changes are necessary to improve the regulation of the current rehabilitation service in order to ensure that basically adult persons are provided with a needs-based, cost-effective, high-quality and effective rehabilitation service. Question 2: 'The cost of rehabilitation of people with special needs in the 2013 state budget increased with the aim of reducing the number of rehabilitation queues. How many people with special needs will the rehabilitation service be available in 2013? In the 2013 budget, the Ministry of Social Affairs requested EUR 1.7 million to reduce the order of the child rehabilitation service to the basic budget, with which we hope to cover the child rehabilitation service. At least 2 000 children will have access to the service. This is a very important and major step forward in improving the availability of child rehabilitation services, which is already taking place this year. For adults, the amount required to provide services to all target groups increases by an increase in price, in particular by reducing the order of people with special psychological needs. Special attention was given to the target group of people with mental disorders, as a rehabilitation plan is a prerequisite for receiving the necessary special care services. In the 2013 budget, EUR 985600 has been taken into account for their re-evaluation. This could be expected to reduce the order by 1540 persons and ensure faster access to the service. Question 3: 'Improbably, in some counties, the funds allocated by the State for the purchase of technical equipment for disabled persons ended at the beginning of autumn 2012. However, the 2012 State Budget Amending Act found additional resources to cover the shortfall in technical assistance facilities. To what extent do you consider the state budget resources for 2013 to be sufficient for the purchase of technical assistance facilities for persons with disabilities? ' Compared to last year's basic budget, the 2013 budget has increased the amount of aid to 7%. The truth is that last year there was a need for additional funding with an additional budget, and this was also found. So it cannot be ruled out that this year too must be prepared for flexible restructuring, while the budget still envisages an increase of 7% compared to last year. In addition, it is important for availability that some products are subject to maximum compensation limits, which, as has been said, improves accessibility. Our hope is very clear that both the increase in the budget and the introduction of price caps will help to ensure, in combination, the smooth supply of aid instruments. Question 4: '2012. According to the explanatory memorandum to the draft law amending the State Budget Act 2008, nearly EUR 6.4 million was allocated last year for the acquisition of technical assistance facilities. However, the 2013 state budget provides for only EUR 5.8 million. Does this reduction in provision mean that the availability of technical equipment for disabled people will be impaired this year? ' At the beginning of 2012 the basic budget year, to be exact, was EUR 5,430 million. By 2013, the amount allocated to the aid was increased from the state budget to EUR 5,839 million. Perhaps, as I said in reply to the previous question, there is more than 7% more money than that. But at the same time, I also explained that an additional allocation from the additional budget was indeed needed last year, which also came to the hands of those in need. It should be unambiguously clear. In addition, the budget will help to ensure compliance with the needs of persons with disabilities at maximum compensation rates developed and established in 2012, which is also a long-term opportunity to address budgetary problems. The maximum compensation cap will help to improve the availability of simpler technical assistance tools and incontinent products and optimise the use of available funds, and will slow down the rise in aid prices. It is important to know that the amount to be saved will not be withdrawn from the funds allocated to the assistance instruments, but will be directed in order to meet the needs of those in first need, i.e. it will improve the availability of the funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U39	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U40	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. It is quite likely that this autumn, too, these funds will run out, including those for technical assistance. Since there are maximum compensation limits, why not try to do something with VAT, for example? That's the money they're gonna take out of the country's pocket and put back in it afterwards. But at the same time, it would give us the opportunity to buy everything we need for the rest of the year and give it to the people. How do you feel about such a proposal?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U41	Thank you. In order for the state budget allocation (we are now talking more widely than it is a specific issue, because you took the talk to VAT incentives) to reach the people who need it most, it is most effective to allocate this money directly, in the form of money. There is always a risk that more or less of the expenditure made by the state will be lost or lost to those who do not need it, in the case of all kinds of expenditure that is made in the budget, but which will reach people in the form of tax incentives. If we come back to this very important issue, there is no guarantee here either that, by granting a tax credit, we will automatically make products cheaper because of this tax rate. Therefore, even if some part, such as half or a third of this tax credit, is spent for non-target purposes, this money has disappeared for this very important area. I would prefer, in future, that if we wanted to improve the availability of aids, we would work together in the Riigikogu to find additional resources, not to try to approach in any way through the trades, some indirect advantages that might perhaps reach those in need, but perhaps not in some part. A sound budget allocation is much clearer than a tax approach.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U42	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U43	Thank you. Good minister! There have been problems with the rehabilitation service since it was set up, since 2003-2004. Right now, I got a little scared when you mentioned need-based again. Normally, when something becomes needs-based, it means that the service will be reduced. If you put "cost-effective" on that end, it's like health care that it's not optimal for the patient. Are those who do not need it really receiving the service now? It's been ten years now. The previous minister was unable to solve these problems. How much do you want to go deep? Can we be sure that this service is really coming up? The same problem is, after all, by technical means every year. In the second half of the year, more money will be given, but first you have to ask and mumble. It's an annual problem that's been going on for as long as I can remember. What's going on here?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U44	Thank you. I have a sincere belief that s. a The regulation of the Minister of Social Affairs, which will enter into force on 1 July, establishing price caps, will improve the availability of products. I believe that we are taking a step towards better availability with this. Secondly, your understanding of necessity probably doesn't fit much of mine. In a needs-based and individual approach, if you want to, I see the possibility of offering a better service rather than providing a better service, and of using every euro that the country allocates with a budget, to the right place as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U45	Thank you very much. Please, Erki Arrow!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, We are talking here about better rehabilitation for people with disabilities, and the main issue is finding extra money for equipment and equipment. We have also heard about the wabbit of cutting VAT. But at first, you were talking about reducing the order of the children. What is the situation in our universities in training people who are actually involved in helping people with disabilities? That is, in my opinion, one of the biggest problems.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U47	Thank you. I agree with your assessment. Not only in this area, but in the wider provision of all healthcare services, the shortage of people in our small country is certainly one of the biggest problems. But that also means we know clearly where the shoe squeezes. It's a subject that the Ministry naturally deals with.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U48	Thank you. Please, Jüri Jaanson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U49	I'm going to go a little bit further. We are about to face a reform of the definition of incapacity for work, which I hope will greatly improve employment for people with special needs. In this regard, I wonder whether you believe that this reform and the effectiveness of rehabilitation could be directly related. The need for rehabilitation is then known in more detail; it will be better developed in relation to active life, and this service can then be better provided.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U50	Thank you. This is a very fundamental and important issue. I hope that the Riigikogu will support this proposal when we come to the details of making it. But the sincere desire of the Ministry of Social Affairs is indeed to reach the point of helping people with special needs, where we no longer look at people with the same look at how many percent of them are unable to work, but we look at what the state should do, in many cases we also look at what aids the state should invest in so that this person's working capacity is at least 100% at a certain workplace. It is clear that not all people with special needs will be helped by aids for all jobs, but we should certainly pay significantly more attention to how public investment or support can help a person to fully implement himself or herself on the job. This is a huge paradigm shift. It actually needs, I believe, a broader consensus in Parliament as well. I would be very pleased if we could also discuss these issues more thoroughly with all the political groups, and what exactly could be done then. But indeed, in the ministry, such a fundamental paradigm is the preparation of a change in the working phase. I dare to appreciate that in the future, if we want to help all the people who wish to do so to work, the part of the budget that we need for the instruments may increase exponentially. Personally, I also see the possibility of this in the freshly agreed European budget period, because it is very clearly linked to the objectives of the budgetary period, which are directly economic. Helping those who want to work in the labour market, but for some reason, be it for example a objective reason such as the exclusion of specific needs from the labour market, is a very clear investment that is not only an investment in the quality of life of a particular person, which it certainly and very much is, but it is an investment in that we have one person more among the workers or that it is more able to work. This investment is most directly linked to the objectives of the European Union and the objectives of Estonia in the European Union: improving productivity and raising living standards. It's all very nicely connected. The budgetary period of the European Union has only recently been agreed at Prime Minister level, and the European Parliament will say its final word. But we in the Ministry of Social Affairs are already discussing how to use European funds as wisely as possible to improve the quality of life of people with special needs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U51	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U52	Thank you, Mr President of the Riigikogu. Minister, thank you very much. I absolutely believe that it will take time to bring myself up to date on all social issues. I wish you strength and strength, so that you can make all the areas clear. Here today, access to services for disabled people is under discussion. One such service is rehabilitation service. Speakers for disabled people have been present in the Riigikogu this year as well as last year. They have highlighted one important issue: the preparation of rehabilitation plans and the provision of services. They say that a large part of the amount for the service goes to the preparation of rehabilitation plans. Would you aim to improve this situation so that more money would still go to services and to people with disabilities than all this money?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U53	Thank you for that question. Yes, I have been following these parliamentary discussions. I also pointed out in my answers the specific place in which we are trying to achieve savings when drawing up rehabilitation plans. Obviously, we have a desire to direct each procedure to the provision of saved euro services. I gave a concrete example: the limitation of the number of experts. That's what I was talking about earlier.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U54	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The question of inquiry has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U55	We will move on to the next item. On 15 January 2013, member of the Riigikogu, Mikhail Stalnukhin, presented to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts an inquiry into reducing home expenses. I'm asking for a speech chair for Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U56	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The question of inquiry was already formulated by the President. I'll make a little introduction before I go to the questions. Estonian politics are very fun and delightful. Surprises have always been here. I would like to remind you that in 2002, Res Publica, at the time, allowed one of his councils a zero chance of citizenship, but already a year later, they waved hands and feet to get rid of that promise. Let me remind you of the interesting moments in life. In 2006, the Council of the Patriotic Union adopted an appeal to the Estonian people, which said that Res Publica was hostile to the Estonian state, every citizen must fight against them and so on. But after a while, they joined. One might recall 2009 when my great friend Vaher, the Minister of the Interior, whose work I study particularly closely, wrote that the thinking of the Reform Party is leninistic. Right now, he's in with these leninists, and he's not uncomfortable at all. Something like this happens all the time in our lives, but the kind of bucketing that happened two years ago, when you were elected, you can look. That's the kind of thing you can think of! A person who knew exactly that after a while the electricity market would be opened, who also needed to know how prices would change after that, had his picture put on the election poster. I have to admit, our minister looks very pretty here, he's such a gentleman. Next to his picture, it says what they're promising: a reduction in the price of electricity. Not consumption savings, not some saving technology, but a price reduction. It was promised to people two years ago. I would have forgotten about it, but people have been reminding me a lot lately. That's not the kind of thing I keep in my computer funny because I don't have a place for trash. But a journalist from Ida-Viru who keeps watching this thing sent me these Russian-speaking posters. By the way, colleagues from the IRL, pay attention to which Russian you use! People are laughing. There's wrong use of words here, and there's also a grammar error. I should not explain this to you, but we, too, consider it important to take care of the parliamentary party's renome. This journalist sent me these posters and wanted to find out who he could now ask for this contract to be honoured. He personally didn't believe that promise, and he didn't sign the treaty, but a lot of people made a deal with the IRL. There was this: the contract was dissolved and it was offered that if people chose them, they would do that. Now is, in my opinion, the most appropriate time to discuss it. We've filed an inquiry. I'm saying 'we', because this question has been given a second time in the proceedings. This time I didn't start collecting signatures, here's just my signature, but if this inquiry was in this Chamber for the first time in November or December, then half the group's signatures were under there. We are asking what this is about in 50% of the election advertising and how it was planned to reduce home costs in this respect. In particular, we would immediately ask about the price of electricity and so on. In total, we have four questions. We ask the Minister for Economic Affairs to answer them, who is so beautifully posing on this poster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U57	Thank you. I would like to ask the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U58	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Dear Ignorant! Unfortunately, I must destroy your world, of course, this world that you have created around you, instilling concern in your mind about whether or not the Fatherland and Res Publica Union are fulfilling their election promises. First of all, it should be noted that we are trying far from giving you adequate information for the first time and probably not for the last time in this Chamber, but by no means the first time, and probably the last time, it will not arrive in any way. I will take this opportunity once again, and first I will talk about the 2011 election programme of the IRL, especially the slogan 'Home expenses'. '. I'm not going to read the whole two-page text. What did the IRL focus on? We have a number of programme objectives. Firstly, the IRL considers it necessary to continue to support the energy-efficient renovation of apartment buildings and, where possible, to support the reconstruction of individual buildings. The main objective here is to reduce heating costs. The average potential savings in heating costs are 50%. That is actually the answer to your first question. The second main activity is to continue the home support programme for child-rich families launched in 2007. We have been implementing this for four years, and this has been the case with the new government in 2012 and 2013. Thousands of families with children have received substantial investments to rebuild or create their home. More precise calculations can be made as to the exact impact of this on home costs. The third key promise of the IRL election programme was the containment of public monopolies. This concerned, in particular, the adoption of the law imposing price restrictions on monopolies and the resulting strict restrictions and rules on how the pricing of monopoly services (e.g. water, heating and gas) in the Republic of Estonia is confirmed and controlled. From now on, I will be a little more specific with concrete examples of how it protects the interests of homeowners. Fourthly, the abolition of the tax on homeland. The fifth objective concerns energy or electricity. Our plan was to reduce the cost of renewable energy. We foresaw a 50% reduction in the renewable energy fee. Now this draft is here as a certain compromise concerning the reduction of renewable energy charges with the prospect until 2020. I have not noticed the slightest interest in lowering the renewable energy fee, but the Centre Party, I recall, was the leading party when a very burdensome renewable energy fee scheme was adopted for consumers in this Chamber. The next programme position, aimed at reducing home costs, is to maintain the exemption for home loan interest rates. It has been laid down in Estonian law since 1996. At the moment, there is a desire to abolish this tax exemption. The Fatherland and Res Publica Association have advocated that this exemption be maintained. The entry into force of the Law on debt restructuring and debt protection is also important. As a result of the crisis, families had to be provided with legal support if they had difficulty returning their home loan. Now I will answer your four questions. The first question: 'What does this apply to '50%' in your election ad? ' As mentioned above, the biggest component of home expenses in our climate is the heating cost of housing. Up to 45% of all energy consumed in Estonia is used for heating buildings. If we look at the heating costs of our buildings, mainly the housing fund, they are about twice as much per square metre as they are in Finland. Finland, however, is known to be even more north than we are. Extensive studies have been carried out on the state of the Estonian Housing Fund, the state of energy efficiency of houses and the possibilities to reduce energy costs. The general understanding is that reconstruction of the building can reduce heating costs by an average of 50%. Stalnukhin, who asked these questions, got the hell out of this hall. That's his level. I repeat: reconstruction can save 50% of heating costs. There's an apartment building in Narva, as far as I know. An apartment building! I've been looking into what Narva City Hall is doing. I'm only talking about Narva because the inquisitor is Narva, at least supposedly representing the concerns of the people of Narva. Narva is very different from many municipalities, where we are not even talking about their financial contribution, but about support to explain to housing associations and people that it is worth doing with the reconstruction of our house, especially with regard to the national support programmes we offer. Since September 2010, the owners of the apartments and the state together have invested 58 million euros in thermal renovation of apartment buildings. The average energy saving is over 40%, but it can fluctuate depending on how complete the reconstruction project was, how complete it was and what the condition of the house was at the time of reconstruction. The results may be different, but we are talking about a 40-50% savings in heating costs. Not to mention that when we invest in houses, we increase their market value. If we do complete reconstruction, we will improve the internal climate, which will have a positive impact on human health, and, of course, we will significantly prolong the lifespan of apartment buildings. The savings in heating costs are significant. Today, it can be said that this EUR 58 million, which has been used to renovate apartment buildings, affects 40000 people and 3% of the housing fund. We can see from here what the perspective and scale of this problem really is. Of course, when the Fatherland and Res Publica Union chose as one of their main novels 'Home expenses down! ', then our wish was to launch this programme quite important for the Estonian people. We're only at the beginning of this. I really wouldn't recommend taking this ridiculously. From your political point of view, you blame it as if it was an election promise that we did not intend to comply with. It's very important to fill it out. The second question: 'What monopolies have you succeeded in overcoming over the past five years? How are you satisfied with the Competition Authority's work in curbing monopolies? ' I do not understand what the questioner means more precisely by overcoming monopolies, but it is important to mention that any regulation of the activities of undertakings can only be based on the principles laid down by law. The law imposing price restrictions on monopolies introduced very significant European rules in the area of monopoly services. Above all, it concerns water management. In my opinion, we have set transparent rules on how it is possible to control the economic meaning of prices in the heating industry and how the Competition Authority, as an independent regulator, can direct the activities of existing monopolies, opening up markets, where possible, to economically more economical forms of heating. This is also the case with the gas economy. I wouldn't ridicule that law. I think we did not have those principles that are elementary everywhere in Europe. I am not going to talk about our practice until this law enters into force, how, for example, the price of water was set in Tallinn or another municipality. That's it. In my opinion, this law lays down principles of principle on how to regulate the prices of monopolies. Of course, this requires the Competition Authority to be strong, competent and able to make sensible decisions, taking into account the interests of consumers, and also to ensure that these vital services are also provided in a longer and sustainable manner. Now some examples of the results of the Competition Authority's work. From 1 November 2010, the Competition Authority will coordinate the price of water services in the larger regions. First, it has harmonised the regulation of the price of water services in Estonia. The price of unfairly high water services has been topical especially in the municipalities of Tallinn and Tallinn's nearest neighbourhood. We know that the price of water in Tallinn has not risen and there is an ongoing fundamental dispute with the company as to whether or not this regulation is compatible with the Constitution. According to the Ministry, the fact is also that the Competition Authority and this law are based on the principles of verification of established monopoly services in Europe. The situation is no longer what it was before in Tallinn. Do you remember how Heimar Lenk sat on the edge of the bathtub, almost fell into the bathtub and promised to check the price of water? It looked like the video cut was cut in half when he fell into the tub. A few more examples. The water company in Viimsi municipality has brought the weighted average price of its water service down to 9%. With regard to the price of water services, it should be taken into account that in 2007-2013, Estonia received 447 million euros in support for water management, plus the contribution of local governments and water companies. Most water management sites were completed in 2011, so large-scale investments in water management had an impact on the price of water services, just when the Competition Authority became a water service regulator. Changes in the price of water services have been due to this in many places and investments have also led to better quality of service. Another example of the impact of the law on the imposition of price restrictions on monopolies. In 2010, the Competition Authority analysed the competitive situation regarding the connection of the heating networks of Tallinn district heating areas by Tallinn Kütte. The Competition Authority considered that connecting regions would be beneficial for consumers, and the Competition Authority also insisted on this. The company has now made the connection. The law imposing price restrictions on monopolies substantially amended the organisation of the purchase of heat. An example of the effectiveness of the new regulation is the competition organised by Tallinn Heating, which has resulted in a reduction in the share of high-cost natural gas heat produced after the completion of the Iru waste incineration plant, replacing it with heat produced from domestic chipping wood and waste. The Competition Authority will be able to apply exactly the same competitive tendering procedure in other counties. We see that in several county towns and larger settlements of Estonia, boiler houses are transferred from gas heating to a much more cost-effective and cheaper biomass heating for the consumer. Fourthly, I mention the regulation of the price formation of natural gas, knowing that heating costs and warm prices depend on it, because much of the heat production is used for natural gas. The law liberalising the natural gas market has been adopted. A fundamental decision on ownership unbundling of the gas transmission system has been adopted. Work is being done to create an alternative gas supply source for the Estonian market, which could also affect price through substantial competition. Question number three: 'Have you analyzed... '
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U59	Good Minister, unfortunately, the answer time is up. Perhaps in the course of answering the following questions, you can also answer the remaining questions. We are now going to the questions. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U60	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I am pleased that you have also remembered this election ad on Tallinn Water, which you have just remembered, indeed, at a high level. It was really artistically very well done and at all levels. You remember the ad, but it seems to me that your memory is starting to weaken a little. At least you guys do. When you actively participated in the election fight, being an ambassador candidate and walking around the houses with woollen socks in South Estonia, you didn't say anything about renovating houses. It's a misfortune you got about a year after the election, when your home expenses went down.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U61	Question time's up. One minute's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U62	I'll answer Leng's third question. Mr Stalnukhin's third question was this: 'Have you analysed why you have failed to fulfil your electoral promises? ' I am not going to present a report on the commitments made by the political party and the entire government coalition, but I will use the words of the future mayor of Narva, Mr Ossinovski (he is your colleague in opposition), which he said last November: 'IRL has fulfilled all its electoral promises over the last two years in government. ' In this regard, I recommend that you follow the assessment of your colleague, who has analysed the subject very thoroughly and understands what he is talking about. A young talented person, unlike many others.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U63	Thank you. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U64	Thank you. Good minister! Remember how it was with Tallinn Vee. Who was the mayor when Tallinn Water was privatized, wasn't it Jüri Manor? Do you remember how the profit margin was written in there and how it has to increase all the time over the years? I remember it very accurately. It was during your reign. But as for the fact that someone keeps putting the same tile on the same plate, it has to be said that when we talk about the amount of home expenses, you are always contradicting the renovation of apartment buildings. You know very well that in small apartment buildings in the country, people would remain in eternal debt slavery if they were to heat something up there. I would remind you how Ken-Mart Vaher said here on the remote that reducing home expenses means halving the cost of indoor heating and water. I have this verbatim, and I can read it. Now, I'm asking you, isn't electricity at home?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U65	Electricity is home use. I told you what the IRL planned in 2011. An important element that can be actually reduced in the electricity economy is the remuneration of renewable energy. In our opinion, the renewable energy fee scheme introduced in 2007 under the leadership of the Centre Party is too burdensome for the consumer. What's there to deny, I want to congratulate you, there were certainly positive aspects. The renewable energy portfolio has developed very rapidly, but the renewable energy fee scheme that was adopted in this Chamber under the leadership of the Centre Party was too burdensome. We calculated in 2011 that the renewable energy fee could be reduced by up to 50%. We know that there is currently a draft on this issue in the Riigikogu. It's a compromise. If you blame me here, I will try to explain why this compromise has been made. One reason for compromise is that you have not said a word about how to correct your mistake made in the Riigikogu in 2007. You will continue to protect the large profits of renewable energy producers, just like in Tallinn, where you are always fighting for the enormous commercial profits of Tallinn Vee and spitting on the water users of Tallinn. This was particularly annoying for you, so I imagine that the already meaningless foundation, which was founded in Tallinn and which you revolutionaryly referred to as the Tallinn Water Entrepreneurs Monitoring Foundation, was already working with a large number of people who are likely to get paid. I don't know what for. After all, this operation has long been completed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U66	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U67	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you for your colourful answers. But you're probably not well-informed. Today, this bill, which would have reduced the renewable energy charge, was withdrawn from the procedure. I don't know when it will return to the Riigikogu tables. This reduction would have led to a reduction in electricity prices of 1,6%, and a reduction in electricity excise duty of 4,6% would have been possible. Unfortunately, you didn't support it. But in itself renovation of houses is a good measure, I support it. I think it could be continued, except that its effects are very lengthy. But why has little been done about what would have a direct effect in a very large monetary currency, such as the organisation of heat lines and the transfer of boiler houses to chips? There are no resources available for this at a warm price. Why has the country provided so little help here?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U68	I agree that this aid could be more, or could be more, thoughtful of how, given the different size of the cities and settlements, we could create more economic interest for a significant restructuring of existing district heating areas. But I certainly cannot accept that this aid has not been offered at all. I did not put on my list the programmes with which we support investments in district heating pipes, not to mention investments in order to restructure heat production capacities in order to use much more efficient methods. They must be continued. We intend to come up with laws with which we want to motivate investment in more energy-efficient solutions, as well as solutions that are more favourable to consumers, given Estonia's peculiarity. The originality is the complexity. I admit that your comment (or it was Mrs Tuusi's comment) was also correct, that if the population has fallen, it will be difficult to reconstruct apartment buildings and invest in it, as well as in district heating systems. If the population falls, of course, this investment burden will be too great for people living there, not to mention a situation where people may not have economic opportunities. I call for real solutions in these cases as well. We're not gonna get away with this one way or another if we think about our housing fund in the long run. Right now, as I said in the answer, we are still dealing with a fairly early-stage problem. We can see that these support programmes have taken time, but there has been a significant increase in interest and willingness to invest. People come with it. Except in Narva, of course.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U69	Thank you. Please, Mart Nutt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U70	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! I am happy to live in a house that was renovated in the last year. In my experience, I can confirm that the heating costs of the winter months have indeed decreased more than twice. But I remember well the skepticism the people of the house had. It was questioned whether these costs were reasonable. In particular, older people may take it in such a way that they can recover these investments by saving their heating costs. Is there available material that can be distributed to people simply for information on how much time such investments take until they pay off?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U71	Thank you. The main implementing unit for this programme is KredEx. There are also consultants who can be invited to a meeting of the building management company. Of course, there are also written materials. I think it is more important that we do not just have theoretical calculations and models, but that KredEx is trying to store individual cases in order to give examples of the content of the technical project, on the one hand, but also of possible models of how the building management company, depending on the number of apartments, should make an investment plan so that it is not a burden on people at the same time. These materials are available in KredEx. There are people in KredEx who are ready to share this information directly.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U72	Thank you. Please, Erki Arrow!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U73	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Your call turned out to be where these major savings are. But should we not make the laws on the renovation of apartment buildings more rigid so that we use the same methodological basics as those used in Sweden and Finland? Rumor has it that they have not used the methodology that we currently have in place for many years. Secondly, could we cut red tape more in KredEx? Why does each apartment building have to make a separate project that takes six months and takes a year to approve? If you start today, it's only a year from now that you can basically start building. Can't we cut red tape?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U74	Thank you. If it's possible, it's definitely possible. But I've been informed that even though we have a lot of standard apartments, reconstruction requires that the existing reconstruction project must at least be matched to each house. The houses are different, though. Secondly, we know that there are a lot of choices in reconstruction that apartment owners can make. Unnecessary bureaucracy should certainly be avoided. We have tried to work with local governments to obtain building permits and all this would be easier. But there is nothing to do, it seems that if you do complete or even partial reconstruction, it is worth taking at least a year for preparation. Then the plan is well thought out. It's not like we're just gonna change the windows and doors on the house, and then we're done. If you still want a holistic solution that also improves the indoor climate and ventilation, you need to prepare everything. The second question, if I understood correctly, was about Scandinavian claims. I would point out that we too have stricter energy efficiency requirements for new houses. Energy efficiency requirements should become increasingly stringent for all new buildings that are being built. Here is a certain line for 2020 when the energy efficiency rate of new houses is rising very significantly as a result of EU agreements. But this basic focus, when we look at this mass again, is still how we can reconstruct and motivate the owners of the existing housing fund, mainly the old housing fund. We must take into account that Estonia is in a somewhat unique position in this sense compared to most European countries, because we have a very large private housing fund. The share of municipalities is quite low here. Consequently, there must be cooperation between the state, municipalities and private owners. There's nothing you can do about it by order.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U75	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U76	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Personally, I respect you very much. I don't think there's any reason for you to be nervous and to use expressions like "fuck off." But that's it. We're both coming out of the fog. When one person deliberately cheats on another person with a view to obtaining his money, it is called a scam. You pose on this poster where you promise to reduce the cost of electricity. As a result, you got votes, you got government, you got the minister's salary. Don't you think these things are very and very similar?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U77	Tough accusations. I suggest, however, once again that you familiarize yourself with our election programme, read exactly what our election programme envisaged, and not ridicule it. If you continue to ridicule me, it's gonna be pretty damn hard to take you seriously. We are talking about a very serious task that I think is important to the people of Estonia. In my opinion, calling for this to be resolved is far more important than trying to make a mockery of one or the other's brief vote. It's ridiculous that you're doing this. I'd be embarrassed if I were you. If I go to Narva, I understand that the people of Narva do not know the least about the national programmes that the country has offered. Whose job is it to introduce them? After all, that would be your primary task, whose voters are very supportive of you. It is not your job to walk around like a coward and talk about the fact that the IRL has promised what it has never intended to accomplish. We've been planning on fulfilling it, and we're doing it. But it is also necessary to help people understand the need for it. It is not necessary to plant in their heads all the time that all the people in Estonia are evil and nobody wants to fulfill what they have promised. Once again, take the trouble, read the IRL election program and talk about it. Do not wave words torn out of a single context.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U78	Thank you. Please, Priit Onion!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U79	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Because of the nature of my work, I have to live in Tallinn some part of the time. I live downtown. Last week I received an invitation from an elder in the center of the housing company to see a Monotheater show where Jan Uuspõld plays. It was Grandpa. I didn't exactly understand the connection between a housing activist and this show. Maybe you know it in more detail, but maybe it's a way to draw attention to something or vice versa. You mentioned that the state has invested EUR 58 million with homeowners. Can you tell me how many families have experienced a drop in costs as a result? Secondly, is there any additional resources planned for the KredEx measure in the next period, from 2014 to 2020? Can you tell me how much the Ministry has planned these?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U80	Thank you. I can't comment on a play or a downtown parent. These projects, which have been completed or are being realised, currently concern some 40,000 people. It is as if a large number, but given that this programme should, in one way or another, affect all Estonian people, regardless of where they live and where their home is, I think that there is still a great deal of work. We've been looking at the perspective of about seven years. We ourselves imagine that, in 2014 to 2020 at least the same volume of the programme for apartment buildings should continue, i.e. the rate of investment support, depending on the energy efficiency of the investment, would be up to 35% of the project's cost. We are now talking about the financial volume of the state support programme of EUR 150.200 million until 2020. Of course, it also depends on the pace. What sources of financial resources could be? There could be two of them. One comes from the European Union's emissions trading system, which is the potential revenue from the sale of carbon dioxide when the country sells the quota allocated to it. Here is the risk of a complex forecasting of the price of the quota and its resources. This price is currently very low in the short term. Another possible financial source would be that the European Union's funding for the next period could be used to finance this programme. Energy efficiency is certainly a pan-European priority, in that sense it fits. We should be able to make these decisions during this year by using this combination of instruments and in the light of this objective.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U81	Thank you. Please, Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U82	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Despite all my respect for you, I say that before the elections you spoke a clear language and promised to lower home expenses. Now you have started to say that you will compensate 30% of the cost of penoplast and plaster so that you can heat houses, and this will reduce home expenses. In short, you're making it difficult. But here's my question. Why are you still raising your home expenses? You raised the network fee by 14% at the end of last year. At the same time, it was known that the price of electricity would increase if the market opened up. At the same time, we have to admit that the network fee (people do not really know what it contains) is higher than in rich Germany, for example. Imagine! The increase in network charges is specifically a decision that you have approved. Why did you still increase your home expenses?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U83	Thank you. I could, of course, answer you that I have already answered your colleague Stalnukhin about the same question. However, as far as network charges are concerned, once again, bring yourself up to date with the law of the Republic of Estonia, think it through, think about the long-term interests of consumers as well. We're all consumers. Then consider how this could be financed most wisely. I think that, as far as network charges are concerned, it is important to be sure that whoever maintains the network has more than 30 network companies and one core network company, all network charges have been assessed and verified on a cost-based basis by an independent regulator. That's the first assumption. Your idea, if you have read two words and concluded that we have planned something uneconomic or long-term detrimental to the Estonian state and consumers, is simply limited. I have no information that the Competition Authority could not control the prices of network companies. It is also true that network companies have significant investments. We're building Estlink 2. It's investment money. Investments will be taken into account in the long-term profitability of the consumer tariff to the extent that we do not support these investments. This concerns Estlink 2, but it also concerns large-scale investments in the retail network in Estonia. Let's look at the main problems of the retail network. I do not believe that there were political reasons in the 1990s, as you imagine in your mind, that the Minister said that there was no need to invest in the network, because the remuneration could move in one direction or another, there must be another three years when there are next elections. On the contrary, we must invest in the network. In the 1990s, network investments were almost zero. That's why, when the wind blows and there's a bigger storm, there's a lot of power cuts. It's abnormal. I do not recommend comparing online fees between us and Germany and Finland. Network charges are a declaration of solidarity. The lower the network fee, the more electricity is consumed all over Estonia. The network fee is not different depending on whether the consumer is located in Narva, very close to the power plants, or Kilingi-Nõmme. It is a system of jointly and severally organised remuneration and comparisons with Germany and Finland are not quite appropriate. We should look at consumption, we should also look at other network parameters to assess whether our network is very expensive. These are neutral economic figures that you would be extremely useful to look at. You wouldn't say that.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U84	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U85	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! You've had almost an hour and a half now from this remote control to make such an overall mess. But I'm asking you about a specific election promise. In February 2011, your election ads were hanging throughout Estonia, with the text 'Let us lower the price of electricity'. How's it really been? You promised in February 2011 that you would lower the price of electricity. Today it has been two years, it is February 2013. What really happened at the price of electricity, has it gotten smaller or bigger?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U86	Now, if you're looking exactly at it, you'll see that we're talking about a renewable energy fee. The renewable energy fee should go down. I'll tell you what our party promised in the election. Listen to what I'm saying! You must never take two words and start twisting them, in which case you will act maliciously. We have explained to all our constituents that it is precisely renewable energy prices that can be reduced. What will the cost of electricity be in the long term? The fact that the IRL is not going to do any economic tricks is, of course, reasonable. We believe that opening up the market will be beneficial for Estonian consumers in the long term. All kinds of games and turning people's eyes on the fact that making an advantage through one or another indirect tax is a huge solution to the problem, is, excuse the expression, simply incompetent. It's not gonna solve a problem. But I think that if we develop a functioning market, the consumer will actually win the most. There must be an effective social benefit system for those people, for those families who are experiencing difficulties. This is a normal country.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U87	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U88	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. You talked long and hard about how urgent it is to invest in the distribution network because the network has been amortised and there was no investment in the 1990s. Not only in the 1990s, but also in the early 2000s were not invested. At the same time, the government still took out hundreds of millions, even billions of kroons, as a dividend from Eesti Energia, instead of investing this profit in the company's fixed assets, including networks. Now all this investment is going to be made afterwards and at the expense of the people. Last year, the network fee was increased by nearly 10%, now 13%, next year perhaps by another 20%. That's how the slogan 'Umenshenije csen za electric šestvo' will survive.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U89	I think it was an opinion, I don't think you had a question. As far as this perception is concerned, even for network operators, who are many in Estonia, it can be said that these sources of investment and investment do not mean that the company cannot be profitable. Indeed, profitability must be regulated according to the monopoly. Profitability has a very strong threshold, as it is on average in the European Union or the OECD. The idea that we can tell network operators that they can manage them in a loss-making way or that we are taking money from somewhere and giving them to invest in the network, just not economically.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U90	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U91	Thank you. You said that when the IRL said before the election that it would control the price of electricity, it meant the renewable energy charge. How did you feel at the time, and how do you feel today, is that how your voters understood it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U92	IRL voters, yes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U93	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. Let's get to the negotiations. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U94	Ladies and gentlemen, Point 1, there are four associations of apartment associations in Narva, visitors from Tallinn, KredEx, Estonian Association of Apartment Associations etc. are constantly attending. Everything you need to know about the renovation of houses is known in Narva. I am not the person who needs to explain to the Minister the simplest thing why insulation of houses in Narva is not popular. If he doesn't understand it, it's his problem. Point 2 is a little more fun. It was like there was a duel between me and the Duck. It's kind of weird. I ask the question that my voter asked me, and he starts accusing me of something. Actually, this isn't the first time. I want to tell you a story about Krakow's sausage piece. This story happened in Narva in 2004. The duck was the prime minister then and came to open a hotel in Narva. He didn't have anything in common with the hotel, just the Prime Minister was invited, it was an advertising act, and so on. At this opening there was a fucking great scene, when the Estonian flag, which the minister had given to the hotel, started to hover backwards in front of the hotel. The moment was so important that no one dared to say, "Oh, my God, pull it down! Turn around! " The flag was raised to the sky with a white hedgehog. After all the guests had gone to the hotel, the flag was turned around. But they started asking the Prime Minister at the hotel, the ducks were then prime minister, what's going on at the border. Maybe it was forbidden to bring meat and dairy products from Ivangorod. I would remind you that before that, you were allowed to bring as many of them as a person wanted. The duck said, "What are you saying, the government has not received anything like this! " He claimed that all this was bullshit, yes, it could bring so much. People were about to ask me what was going on. At the border, they're told there are new rules. This was also said when Ducks was in Narva, but he says that there is nothing like this. What can I do? Journalists came to me, and I offered them an experiment. I crossed the line, went to Ivangorod and bought 200 grams of Krakow's sausage. I asked it to be put in a transparent plastic bag, and I began to march proudly across the border. When I arrived at our customs, I noticed that all the customs officials were missing, no one was waiting for me, only the journalists were standing there. I didn't have a chance to check if the Prime Minister was telling the truth or lying. I went out, I smoked, and I came back. Customs officials thought I'd already left. When I came, they turned their backs on me. All three people standing there tried not to see what was in my bag. I stopped and began to ask, "Who is telling the truth, either you or the Prime Minister? Are there new rules or not? Which one of you is lying? " They had no escape, they had to admit that there were really new rules. Of course, the Prime Minister knew it perfectly. But when he realized what it meant for the Narnans, he decided he was lying this time. Well, that's a good thing to remember, and then we'll see what happens next. To prove that this ban really existed, I still needed to get past the inspector. I insisted that proceedings be opened against me because I brought along a sausage that was forbidden. I was taken to an inspector who drew up the record. It's nicely framed on the wall because he wrote down from a lot of fear that I brought 0.2 tons of sausage across the border on my arm. Yes! They usually bring tons and he just didn't trade tons for kilograms. When I'm old and I have grandkids, I'll show it to them and tell them to see how powerful your grandfather is, he brought 200 kilos of sausage across the border. After that, I came out and showed the reporters the record. I gave the sausage to the cats, there's plenty of them at the border. That's the end of the argument. Everyone found out he was the Prime Minister, and he'd be the Prime Minister for a while until somebody from Vaher pushed him off that chair, but he lied. He lied then, and I have no reason to doubt that he's lying today. The trick to get votes with to allow the price of a thing to fall can be seen in politics every day, except this time he was too brazen. Nobody was supposed to believe that. But people did. Now you can explain whatever you want, you can recommend reading the IRL election platform. Who cares? Who cares about your election platform? You're in a coalition with the Reform Party, your platform is no longer playing any role. You have a new platform, and prices will increase as they do. Last week, just at the end of the week, I had several meetings with very angry people. I can tell you I've never seen people so angry. New fashion has emerged: they carry receipts that include rent and utility charges. There's a circle around the price of electricity and it's shown. It also asks when the Minister intends to fulfil his promise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U95	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U96	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I really didn't intend to come to the remote for this item discussion, but after I caught myself sitting in the hall wondering if I was in the Riigikogu Hall listening to Minister Juhan Parts or at home in front of the TV and watching Juhan Parts, and more and more I felt like it was the other Juhan Parts, it forced me to come here and give my opinion. First of all, the IRL is very well known for the interesting headlines of laws. Almost never do the titles match what the law itself says. The best example was when the number of members of the Tallinn City Council was increased from 63 to 79 and this was done under the sign of the amendment of the Gender Equality Act. In my opinion, the law imposing price restrictions on monopolies, which had to control all prices, including the price of water, belongs to the same series. When the minister answered questions from this remote control, he was able to give two examples where the price of water has not risen, I was able to find in half an hour a dozen examples where the price of water has risen since the implementation of this law. Sillamäe Waterworks.17.5%, Tartu Waterworks.30.37%, Haapsalu Waterworks.19.5%, company offering water services in Aruküla and Raasik.93.71%, Kose Vesi.26.62%, Kärdla Waterworks.18.1%, Pandivere Vesi.19.36%. It took me only half an hour to find these ten examples. I think if I had more time before the remote came, I'd have found a lot more of them. Finally, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the Fatherland and Res Publica Union. Recently, there have often been statements that there is no good sense of humor on Estonian television channels. In recent days, however, television advertising has been running on private television channels, where Mr Reinsalu talks about how they have fulfilled their contract and carried out their promises. As I move around the country, I notice that people who see this commercial and get to laugh from the heart are the best part of the day. I thank the Union of Isamaa and Res Publica, who have given the people of Estonia at least one thing to laugh about! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U97	Thank you very much. Does the Minister have a call to make? No, it's not. There are no more requests for negotiation. I'm closing the negotiations. The fourth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U98	After hitting the hammer, it is possible to register for an appearance in a free microphone. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U99	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, It is February, which is significant in the lives of almost all households in Estonia. I am thinking not of the 95th anniversary of the Republic of Estonia, but of the gift of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union to the people of Estonia for the anniversary of the Republic. After all, at the beginning of February, all Estonians saw electricity bills received in their mailboxes or computers, which in reality means the IRL slogan 'Home expenses below! '. So far, if the deep content of this slogan did not make any sense to some, then now every person should understand it. I am sure that in about a year's time, a number of Estonians will be able to feel the very content of the second slogan "Free Higher Education." I fear it will be even more painful for many than the slogan 'Home expenses down! ' Finding out the deep content. Now for more details on today's subject. In order to be specific, I made my home electricity bills in December and January. It turned out that the electricity cost was almost the same between a few kilos of electricity. I guess those winter months were pretty much the same, not too cold. The cost of energy was the same, but the cost of money was quite different. The cost of energy was 36% higher, the network fee 13% more and, miraculously, but the renewable energy fee had to be paid the same amount. After the excise duty and finally the value added tax were welded to all the separately taken increases, my electricity bill was 21% higher, and I spent as much electricity as I did last month. I can't tell if it's irony or anything else that this gift has just given us an IRL or 'Home expenses'! " Minister representing the party of the slogan authors. If the price of electricity is justified by both Minister Juhan Parts and Prime Minister with the requirement to open up the electricity market agreed in the Treaty of Accession to the European Union, it is completely incomprehensible why the network charge must be increased by nearly 10% or more than 10% each year. Both mouths give reasons like Vändra's sawboards, as has been the custom of saying the mouth of the people. It is necessary to build an emergency power plant for Kiisa, to build Estlink 2, in terms of core networks. The distribution network of Eesti Energia, called Elektrilevi, is also trying to stay at the same pace. I would like to ask whether the costs of infrastructure projects of national importance must necessarily be incurred by means of the network tariffs that the consumer pays each month. Wouldn't it be worth financing the Estlink 2 connection between Estonia and Finland from investments in the state budget infrastructure? Now suddenly it turns out that the distribution grid has been depreciated, uncertain and needs large investments to ensure security of supply, so that every gust of wind does not go away. It is said to be in the consumer's own interest. Over the last ten years, 1.2 billion euros have been taken from Eesti Energia into the state budget as dividends and taxes. Where has it been all this time knowing that the distribution grid needs to be upgraded? Why was profits not invested in the restoration of networks? Why did the government pump every free cent out of the company as a dividend? The Minister here tried to explain that this must be done as a component of a fee and that each company must make a profit. But profits can be invested in fixed assets. He sneaked away from it. This year it is planned to raise EUR 33 million in electricity excise duty from electricity consumers to the state budget. The government's policy has been mildly expressing the hostility of its people, so as not to say that it hates its people. The owners of their company, I mean Eesti Energia, do not behave better. Knowing that the distribution network of the company's fixed assets has been amortised, money is to be withdrawn as a dividend. A prudent master would first invest and keep the means of production in order, and then think about the dividend. I do not want to say in any way that the state is a bad host, that the bad are still specific people who do not respect the people and are inadequate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U100	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U101	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Priit Toobal said he wasn't planning on coming here. I was planning on coming here. Since I only have five minutes, I'm trying to make it real quick. Firstly, a new situation has arisen at the border crossings of Koidula, Luhamaa and Narva. There's a waiting period, albeit illegal. The biggest problem is that the waiting fee is rising. I come back to this topic that we discussed here some time ago: people are being illegally taxed on the amount of fuel that is brought from Russia to Estonia in a standard tank. The situation is that all persons who have paid this fee illegally can go to the Tax and Customs Board, write a free-form application, and on this basis the Tax and Customs Board will return the amount of the charge taken illegally. Those people who do not have any checks will also be able to go to the Tax and Customs Board and recover this illegally collected fee. Try to imagine now. You walk along the state road, for example, at the Koidula border crossing, the road is built very well, you walk and walk, but then you run out of state road at the same time and the signs show that all passengers are obliged to go through the waiting area. The waiting area is under contract under the responsibility of another manager and all passengers are forced to pay a standstill fee. Some time ago, I introduced the Chancellor of Justice's proposal to the Minister of the Interior that such an infringement should be brought to an end. I will read again today an excerpt from a letter from the Chancellor of Justice dated 19 April 2012. The Chancellor of Justice wrote in his proposal for the elimination of the infringement in order to organise the entry of vehicles at the road border crossing point: 'In order to organise the entry of vehicles at border crossing points in Luhamaa and Koidula, § 83 (4) of the State Border Act is violated, according to which no charge is charged for the use of a waiting area for border crossings when the vehicle is placed in a waiting area for border crossings, but does not actually use the waiting area service for border crossings and is directed immediately to the border crossing point. ' I went to Russia myself and left the car in the parking lot for three hours. It turns out that only parking can be paid separately. There was a message on the wall somewhere that the passenger paid EUR 2 for using the shower room, etc. I asked if there were any regulations that could be printed and shown to me. I've been printing some kind of interior minister's arrangement since 2011. What am I saying? I also tried to explain to other passengers that they would protest against the payment of the waiting fee, would not pay it and would continue to drive. There have been cases where no waiting period was required. But last night I got a call and they said that the waiting fee has even risen. I recommend that all passengers who go from Estonia towards Russia and pass through the waiting area do not pay this fee. If you pay, you keep all the checks, because I promise you, we will continue to deal with these problems. If the Chancellor of Justice has already said that the law is being violated and the waiting period cannot be taken, then I believe that this time too, it will end in such a way that everyone who has paid the waiting allowance illegally will be compensated for it. How this will be done, whether it will be compensated from the state budget or otherwise, will probably be settled by the Minister of the Interior and the Chancellor of Justice or the Prime Minister. But all passengers using Koidula, Luhamaa or the Narva border crossing point do not have to pay the waiting fee. If they are required to pay a deferred fee, it will be in violation of the law, illegal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U102	Thank you. Please, Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U103	Ladies and gentlemen, I will continue with the same subject that my colleague, Kalev Kallo, concluded. Namely, the election lie 'Home expenses down! ' using IRL politicians to bluff themselves into parliament and government. People voted in good faith in favour of Juhan Parts, Ken-Marti Vaher and Urmas Reinsalu, hoping to protect against rising prices and the greed of the monopolies. Today, in February 2013, when people get the first electricity bills on the free market, it is confirmed that IRL's promise to lower home expenses was a brutal scam and a bust in the eyes of people. I'm not gonna stop at the price of electricity in my speech. So let us accept that the price of electricity is now being shaped by the market. Although, in a situation where it was known that there would be no competition and that the market would not work, it was the idea and will of Juhan Parts. The example of injustice, cynicism, and greed, however, is viewed in the purest form from accounts in the form of a net fee. The incomprehensible and bluffed-up network charge is two-thirds of what we pay for electricity. The amount of the online fee depends entirely on Juhan Parts and his party associates who promised the people of Estonia lower home expenses. The 14% increase in network charges at the beginning of the year, when the opening of the electricity market already hit consumers, was particularly brazen. There's nothing better to show the IRL's real attitude towards people. Instead of using a number of ways to soften the transition to the free market, the price was even up 14%. Did Juhan Parts and Taavi Veskimägi think that the price increase was small, that they had the nerve to put their hands in people's pockets? Juhan Parts likes to give people what they think is wise advice. One of his favorite suggestions is that you use less electricity. How does he imagine that? Given that the price of electricity, together with the network charge, was insane even before the last price increase, people have long exhausted their potential for savings. So do they have to sit in the cold and dark like in wartime? If the IRL so far enjoyed living in 1944, will the people of Estonia now be thrown from life to life in 1944? A little more IRL rule, and people are forced to move to the muldons. I'm sure Parts could talk to his party leader, Urmas Reinsalu, about savings. Reinsalu has told the Evening Light that its January electricity consumption was 3000 kilowatts, and most of it was spent on heating. This means that Reinsalu will receive an invoice of around EUR 350, still in a relatively warm winter. But if he wanted to stick together, as the Ducks suggests, what would be his chances? Do you want to lower the room temperature to 16 degrees? Since there are young children in the family, I believe Reinsalu does not do this as a good father. That means you have to pay. It's not conceivable for a minister to get a bursuika in his apartment and stick a chimney out the window on the street. With the Minister's salary, it is possible to pay €300.400. But if the family's income is 700 euros, what choice has Duck left for people? Do you want to give up your home? This is also difficult because a large number of homes have been purchased with a bank loan. Who wants to buy a house that costs a lot? Once again, the Ducks could say that you were stupid when you bought an energy-intensive house. But how did people have to anticipate four or five years ago what kind of price race the Minister of Economic Affairs would organise with a net fee? On the contrary, people were encouraged to borrow and acquire their homes. Neither does it help when people use approved and environmentally friendly land and land heat pumps. They also consume electricity and guarantee a large electricity bill because of our prices. Juhan Parts also likes to talk about the insulation of houses. As insulation campaigns concern apartment buildings, which are predominantly located in a district heating network, it is not clear how sticking to penoplast walls should reduce electricity consumption. The private owners most affected by the increase in electricity prices, however, are not talking about the Parts. Given the situation that Juhan Parts has placed thousands of Estonian families in raising online fees, Andrus Ansip must finally show who the Prime Minister is in the government, and Juhan Parts simply let go. This would also put an end to the economic genocid on the Estonian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-11_U104	Thank you. Speaking is over. We have finished addressing today's agenda items. Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 17.11.
