ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister and other members of the government. Let's start today's briefing. Please, let's do the presence check! 55 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 46 are missing. The following members of government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Culture Rein Lang and Minister of Regional Affairs Siim Valmar Kiisler.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U2	Let's start asking questions from Question Time. The first question is from my colleague, Kadri Samson, to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U3	Prime Minister! I believe that, with your experience, you will be able to switch in a minute from the internal quarrels of the Reform Party to the electrical concerns of the Estonian people. My question is based on the statement made by Eesti Pank on 5 October last year, which said, among other things, that the rise in electricity prices will have a dampening effect on economic growth, as it will, above all, reduce the real income of households and thus also increase consumption and domestic demand. The poorer outlook for the economy will lead to a reduction in both investment and demand for labour in the future. When Eesti Pank made this application, the state budget was being processed. The Ministry of Finance forecast growth of 3% this year. Now we know that according to Statistics Estonia, growth in the first quarter was only 1%. With current knowledge, are you willing to admit that Eesti Pank was right and that the increase in electricity prices has had a dampening effect on economic growth?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U4	Neither I nor the Government of the Republic have ever considered the increase in the price of electricity desirable in any way and the Government of the Republic has in no way provoked or attempted to bring about this increase. Eesti Pank is absolutely right. Yes, so the increase in electricity prices affects people's ability to consume. If money is used to pay for electricity, it will not be enough to buy other services and products. If other products or services are not consumed, there is no point in producing and offering them, and all this affects economic activity. Although most of the electricity purchased in Estonia is produced locally, the sum of the effects of this increase on economic growth is not as one-to-one as well as the increase in fuel prices. In Estonia, car fuel is currently not produced and if it increases, it feeds manufacturers outside Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U5	Please, Mr Simson, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U6	Prime Minister! Estonia's domestic customers receive an electricity bill, not only consisting of the price of electricity, but also of a number of state taxes: renewable energy fee, electricity excise duty, and, finally, VAT. And Estonia is the fifth largest in the European Union in terms of the proportion of electricity bill taxes. We have almost 30% of the taxes paid by the household consumer in the electricity bill. It is bigger in Denmark, Germany and Sweden, which are prominently richer than us, and Portugal. In the rest of Europe, the share of taxes added to electricity prices is around 20%, and there are countries that add less than 10%, such as Latvia, Malta and Great Britain. Should Estonia consider that the state could reduce taxes added to the price of electricity?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U7	You have asked me this many times, and I have also repeatedly answered that question. The excise duty on electricity is justified and justified. More than 30 million euros of this excise duty comes to the state budget each year, and this 30 million euros can be used by the state to pay pensioners' pensions, teachers' and policemen's salaries, etc. The government won't take the money, hide it anywhere, use it for the benefit of society. If the electricity excise duty is waived, this means that the beneficiaries are all electricity consumers. Those who use more will win more than that, but those who need help from society will lose help. The entire tax system of the country is designed to regulate certain processes, to force more efficient use of resources, and, secondly, to obtain money to help people in need of social assistance and to provide public services. If this money is not collected, some services will not be provided to society and those in need will not be helped.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U8	Please, Mr Simson, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U9	Prime Minister! The cost of electricity will also increase the price of goods and services. Higher electricity prices are accompanied by higher VAT, and so the state can now say that VAT is well above expectations. In fact, it is a hidden price increase that benefits the country and that money is not immediately returned to people in need. Contrary to you, the Minister for Economic Affairs has said that he sees the possibility of lowering taxes on electricity prices. More than six months ago, he made a promise before the Riigikogu that, under his leadership, the government would lower the rate of renewable energy remuneration. Nothing has been born, and it is very well understood that the Reform Party is slowing it down. Why are you holding back the Minister of Economic Affairs' initiative?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U10	It is not true that we have not reduced the renewable energy charge. This year, renewable energy charges are slightly more than 10% lower than last year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U11	I would now like to ask three questions registered on the spot. Let's start with Rainer Vakras. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U12	Prime Minister! I'll pick up where the last questioner left off. We all know that the share of the renewable energy charge in the consumer price of electricity is close to 10%. The Alliance of Democrats and the Social Democrats have repeatedly said that the state should not impose it on the consumer, but should be compensated by revenue from the sale of CO2 quotas. Indeed, the Minister of Economic Affairs, Juhan Parts, has proposed a second alternative, the possibility of reducing company renewable energy subsidies. According to my information, neither version has actually been used. Are you sure that the price of electricity could not be reduced by using the money from the sale of CO2 quotas for renewable energy subsidies? Does the Reform Party really not see the problem that even the Minister for Economic Affairs has repeatedly referred to in this Chamber and said that Parliament has the ball? Could you explain the subject again in a few words?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U13	The objective of trade in CO2 emissions quotas is to reduce emissions of CO2 and other exhaust gases into the atmosphere. The aim of this system is to make more efficient use of energy resources in a wider sense. The money from the sale of carbon dioxide emission quotas must be used for greening purposes, i.e. ultimately environmental pollution will reduce the release of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. In the budget, we, along with the honourable Riigikogu, have provided that the money from the sale of carbon dioxide emission quotas is used to heat apartment buildings and, to a lesser extent, family buildings. So much less energy is needed in these houses. This is a purposeful use of the money from the sale of quotas.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U14	Please, my colleague Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U15	Good Prime Minister! I am asking about electricity prices, production and security of supply. One aspect, as noted here, is fiscal policy decisions. The price of electricity still accounts for a third of the total bill. I know that Estlink 2 will start next year. This gives us additional opportunities to access the Nordic market, which in turn will put pressure on local production. We all know that oil shale electricity production is not effective and this electricity is not very competitive on the stock market, especially considering that about 750 megawatts come through Estlink 1 and Estink 2. So it seems strange the recent decision to build additional blocks after all. What is your government's strategy, how can electricity production be developed most effectively in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U16	Thank you. I would refute your claim that oil shale electricity is not competitive on the stock market. Oil shale electricity is competitive on the stock market; it is also sold outside Estonia in the framework of Nord Pool Spot. It's very competitive. These accusations, which were once made at the address of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications from the Socialist Group of the Riigikogu and according to which new oil shale blocks are not profitable, have, as we know, received clear answers. These blocks are profitable. There have been doubts that profitability is not at the desired level, but no one has ever claimed that oil shale blocks and electricity produced in them are unable to generate profits. This whole operation is commercially secured by the fact that, in order to partially finance the construction of new blocks, the European Commission has also promised to use free carbon emission quotas, namely the money from the sale of these quotas. It also ensures the profitability of Auvere Station.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U17	Now, I would like to ask you the last registered question, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U18	Good Prime Minister! Yesterday, members of the board of Elering reported in the Committee on Economic Affairs. The topic was the security of electricity supply in Estonia today and what are the perspective plans. The members of the Commission asked questions, and one serious question was why not join Elering and Elektrilevi so that there would be synergies and electricity from the market to the consumer would be in the hands of one company. This would certainly also have a positive impact on the price. Elering's leaders generally supported this idea. I have raised this issue several times, but I have never been able to give it wind to its wings. Do you support this direction to unite these two network companies?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U19	Indeed, you have asked me this many times, and I have repeatedly said to you that if the monetary effect were to arrive at mere additions or subtractions, then we would only be dealing with this. However, these things are not so simple that we add the distribution network and Elering together, and the result is a huge financial victory. There are a lot of pros and cons, as you know very well. That would require a very thorough debate. I cannot rule out that the option you have proposed could have some kind of financial effect, but I have no reason to support this claim right now. With all possible additions and subtractions, a very thorough preliminary work is needed. This concerns not only distribution networks and Elering, but also oil shale mining and electricity production, which has also repeatedly been discussed here in the Riigikogu. It cannot be excluded that some other organisational form is more effective than the one currently in use. Time goes on, one day it may be necessary to make this new form old again. And this cannot be considered to be an empty breeze; there may be a very clear reason for all of this at a given moment in time. So we need to consider your proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U20	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U21	The next question is from my colleague Jaak Allik to the Minister for Regional Affairs, Siim Valmar Kiisler.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U22	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. The discussion of the draft law amending the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act has reached the final stage in the Committee on Culture. We have just received the final views of the Ministry of Education and Research on the amendments to this draft. Please tell me if the Ministry of Education and Research has also discussed the regional policy aspect of these changes with you and your subordinates. If so, have you approved them, and what do you think the regional policy impact of these changes and the new school funding scheme proposed by the Ministry will have on the preservation of upper secondary school education opportunities in Estonian rural areas?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U23	The answer to the first part of the question has been discussed, introduced. After all, the original text is presented as a common government position. But indeed, if I am not mistaken, the Ministry has submitted further amendments to the Commission three more times. The Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act is a law which is usually very seriously broken down and discussed in the Riigikogu. The Riigikogu has certainly never been a spectator on this issue. Not all technical changes have passed through our ministry separately, but the overall direction is known. We will also keep an eye on where the discussions in the Riigikogu Committee on Culture are going. The second question was how the location of upper secondary school education affects regional development. I think there is too much talk about houses in this context, or the physical location of schools. If we look at what is actually happening in Estonia, especially from the point of view of population relocation, the question is that there are certain regions where there is a school close to home, a secondary school close to home, but at the same time people leave. On the other hand, there are regions where parents face the problem of lack of school places, while people still move there. So it's something other than houses. In my opinion, the impact of the school network on regional development is currently being misjudged.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U24	Please, Mr Allik, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U25	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. You have come up with a plan to implement administrative reform in the light of the so-called "pulling centres." Please tell me whether I am not talking about county cities here, but about attraction centres, which include larger rural settlements, such as Vändra, Räpina, Põltsamaa, Kose, Abja, Väike-Maarja, Türi, should also be maintained at secondary school, i.e. the upper secondary school part of the current full-cycle schools! If so, how and who should finance the upper secondary school part of these schools, given that state secondary schools created in county cities are financed 100% of the state budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U26	We have, as you know, gone voluntary with the mapping of the attraction centers. The general view of many parties is that any change in the structure of local governments should be voluntary. Now counties are discussing which settlements are their attraction centers. So far, we don't know which positions the counties reach, the picture's pretty written. In general, the Minister of Education and Science Aaviksoo and I agree that there could be a gymnasium in any centre of attraction, but I do not rule out that there may be exceptions in this picture. When we talk about Värska High School, for example, it should certainly not be so rigid. And there are other examples. But I would like to stress once again that we cannot solve these issues solely on the basis of where the schoolhouse is and how much money we give for it. I have talked to people who live in Läänemaa and whose home in Lihula is very close to being able to receive upper secondary school education. Yet, these parents confirm that they are putting their children in Pärnu Gymnasium. And it has a clear regional policy effect. We should think about why people make such decisions. Only with funding models will we not change these decisions. People make their own choices. Here in the Riigikogu, too, we should focus much more on discussing why parents still think that one school provides much better education for their children. Is that true? And if there is or isn't, then you have to act accordingly to change that picture. This often affects much more than funding models. But in answering your question directly, I think there should be no very big difference in funding for the various schoolchildren.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U27	Please, Mr Allik, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U28	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I have the impression that right now, it looks like you're going ahead and you're going to the fetal attraction centers, the Minister of Education is going after you and he's going to take care of you, the middle schools. But that's it. The draft law provides that by 2020, the state should set up at least one "pure state secondary school" in each county. This means that there will be a situation where, for example, in Viljandi, Haapsalu and Jõgeval, upper secondary school education will be financed purely by the state next year. However, in other county towns, whether Rapla, Kuressaare, Valga, Kärdla, upper secondary school education is still covered by the municipal budget in terms of house expenses and support services for years. There is also an extremely unequal situation between county cities. How do you assess it, and what solution do you see?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U29	Yes, I think that such political compromises may not ultimately lead to the best solution. One option is that there will be a gymnasium in the future in Viljandi County, and steps will be set in the direction that there will be some transitional period if there are more gymnasiums and later this model will be reached. In that case, this should also be said very honestly, and then perhaps the difference in funding models is also appropriate. The second way is to say that we have a very long perspective such that, for example, there are three upper secondary schools in Viljandi County. In that case, we should be guided by the principle that all these three will be preserved if parents and students make their own choices in favour of these upper secondary schools. This should be made clear in the same way, we should not create a situation where we say that our goal is, for example, three upper secondary schools, but when financing, we are taking a course towards a single upper secondary school. In the Commission, we should negotiate very openly what is the objective and, accordingly, set funding. But I would like to emphasise once again: it is only through the financing model that this issue will not be resolved. If it is still thought that some schools do not get as good an education as others, then we need to deal with these issues more. If the kids are going to another school, we can run a school somewhere, and we can have teachers, but we need to figure out why they don't want to go to that school.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U30	Now three issues registered on the spot. Starts with my colleague, Helmen Hunter.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U31	Minister, thank you very much. I don't want to ask you about houses, I want to ask you a question that concerns people directly. This is certainly not a technical change. In the event of the entry into force of the amendments to the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, the local government schools must purchase the service of support specialists from the county advisory centres. State secondary schools don't have to do this. It was already said here today that upper secondary schools in county centres are also in different situations, not to mention the whole county schools. However, many children need help with logoped, specialized education or psychologists, and timely help later prevents problems. Several special schools are now closed. How do you feel about this as Regional Minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U32	In my opinion, the availability of such aid varies. There are places where you can get very good help from a logo beet or psychologist, and there are places where this possibility is not available. I have to admit, the picture is uneven. One option is to enable this service through the county centres where the support specialists work offer their help to all schools. I think there's a point. Each small school cannot afford to hire individual experts and so support specialists can be made available to all students. What do we have against that? When putting the financing model in place, it is essential to discuss how to ensure that there is no situation in which it is said that we still do not have the money to buy this service. I think it's very important. If this service exists, then there must be a way to get it, so that help really gets to any child who needs it. At present, this need is likely to be greater than its coverage.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U33	Please, colleague Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U34	Dear Minister, I'd like to move on to the Helmen Hunter question. Today, many schools have logos, specialized teachers, and psychologists available. Now this service goes to the centers, but children need it almost every day for years. Parents may not often have money to go to the center and back; secondly, they do not have time. Don't you think this aid will become, on the contrary, inaccessible? Perhaps special educators, psychologists, logos and other support providers could come on site, so parents would not decide to move to the centres with their children. In my opinion, regional policy, there is something very wrong with this plan, in addition to the fact that the children will not be able to get help.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U35	In the same way, I agree with you. But the other way around, something's wrong when there's a small school and a small local government who says, oh, no, we can't afford to hire a specialist. And there's no help available. Well, it's not better. However, I agree that if these centres are set up now, if there is a debate on whether their launch could be supported by the European Union's funds for the next financial period, then their location and network must be very reasonable logistically. So far, perhaps it has been depicted as one place in a large county and, if it is logistically inconvenient, the availability of aid will certainly not improve. I agree with you that the network really must be such that the centre is at a reasonable distance for all people. I assure you, I know what you're talking about. As a parent, I have seen the benefits my child has had of helping with logo beets. I certainly think it is necessary for the students to have access to it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U36	Now the last issue registered on the spot. Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U37	Good minister! I understood my colleagues from Heljo Pikhof and Helmen Hunt so that they asked whether, as your regional minister, you supported the reform of your party partner, the Minister of Education, the law whereby the state renounces the responsibility of training children with special needs. I recently went to Vaeküla School in Lääne-Virumaa. There I watched how well the student craft exhibition had been done. I think that if this reform, which Aaviksoo's leadership is trying to implement, comes true, we will not see such an exhibition again, and these children will be deprived. Do you support this reform?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U38	The basic school and upper secondary school law, as I have already noted, is really so that it is always taken apart and discussed so thoroughly that it is often very difficult to recognise the draft submitted by the government to the Riigikogu when the Riigikogu has done its job. What's it gonna be like, I don't have the guts to say today. In this way, I do not know whether or not I agree with what is finally being voted in committee. At the same time, I have not understood the situation so far that the state would reject responsibility itself. I'd say the state isn't responsible right now. I do not feel that the state would be directly responsible for the failure of a small primary school to resolve concerns about the need for help from a logo beet or a psychologist. Once again, I do not see directly that the state is responsible for this in any way. I'd rather see that if everything goes well and these centers are set up, then it could mean that responsibility and care would arise. If, for some time here, we were worried only about the way in which education support is given to municipalities, and about the fact that this issue will not remain in the air if it is not reflected in the financing models, and what happens if the municipality says that we are not going to offer it anymore, because we do not have any money and the financing model does not have this component, and the state on the other hand says that this is the free choice of the municipality, so we will not achieve anything. Compared to this situation, the creation of these centres is certainly a long step forward in order for the state to assume this responsibility as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U39	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U40	The next question is from my colleague Lauri Laas to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U41	Prime Minister! The transition to the open electricity market on 1 January this year shocked people as the price of electricity rose by a fewty percent. Yesterday, we read in the Eesti Päevaleht that 66000 customers of Eesti Energia, who initially signed contracts with an electricity supplier for six months, expect an increase of 10%. In light of all this, how are you satisfied with the work of the Minister for Economic Affairs? After all, he was the person who recommended that people stay on the general service before the market opened, which actually became a more expensive option. It seems that the communication was incomplete and the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications has turned a blind eye to the people.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U42	I don't mean to say that someone's got a bad eye for someone. I have also been among those who have advised people whose monthly electricity bill is two or three euros, not to rush the choice of the package, but to wait for what will happen on the market. And that's what it means to be a general service user. At the same time, it is clear that it is not possible to win the general service in the same way as in the stock exchange price, or in the case of various packages, in this case the lottery winnings are excluded. In other cases, it is possible that electricity will be cheaper than others in some period, but more expensive electricity may also be available. For the general service, all obligations, all risks are borne by the general service user and are generally the most expensive. At the same time, when consumption is very low, it can be difficult to make choices, and standing in line is not reasonable in this case. When it comes to the six-month Estonian Energy package, people should think about whether or not to change the package. If they decide to stay with the selected service, they do not have to do anything if they wish to extend the term of the contract, they must call. If they want to change the package, we have to rush it now.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U43	Please, Mr Laas, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U44	Prime Minister! Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts has not seen much of a problem in electricity prices, unlike pensioners whose pension reaches EUR 300. The ducks talk every chance to heat up their apartment buildings and everything is fine and life gets nicer. In fact, however, KredEx is already out of support money and it may not be enough from quota sales transactions. That's the question. The Reform Party really does have a constructive, young, and it seems that the candidate for the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Kaja Kallas, who cares about people, also cares about people. How long do you intend to bully the Estonian people with Juhan Parts? What do you think of option in case the office doesn't object to Kaja Kallas becoming Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U45	I am surprised by your belief that by changing a person, all problems will be solved by witchcraft. It could be assumed that after so many years here in the Riigikogu, you will delve into all the topics and do not allow for such a simplified approach. The transition to a free electricity market is in the interests of Estonian consumers in the long term. Regulated prices can offer satisfaction during a limited period of time, which is one year or ten years, depending on the sector's prices. However, in the long term, it is the open market, the free market economy, which guarantees the cheapest prices and also the availability of the service. Regulation has often been the case in the world, where the regulator has kept prices well below market prices, one day the service will simply disappear. I certainly do not want this fate for Estonia. In the early 1990s, we moved to a free market economy in most sectors of the economy. Now this area of electricity is the last one where we will also move to the free market economy. Let us acknowledge that Estonia has only won by applying free market economic principles.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U46	Please, Mr Laas, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U47	Prime Minister! To comment on the previous response, I believe that empathy is very important for the Minister, as for all people. Some people have been given it, some have not. I would argue that the current Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications has no empathy. But that's it. Here's the question. In the district of Kristiine, two identical panel houses are located on Endla Street. The only difference is that one of them is renovated and insulated, the other one isn't. Unfortunately, there is no difference between the utility bills of two houses. In the renovated house, the public utility bill is EUR 50-70 in the summer and up to EUR 140 in the winter. In an unrenovated house, there are exactly the same accounts. Question: where is the reduction in domestic costs allowed by Juhan Parts due to residential insulation? This is my voter's question, which I'm simply passing on in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U48	Of course, it would be too much to expect me to appreciate the quality of the insulation of specific houses from this speaker board. I can assure you, however, that the expected average effect on insulation projects for all apartment buildings funded by KredEx is 41%. Thus, energy savings should be 41% on average. In some cases it is slightly larger and in some cases it is slightly smaller, but when certain standard work is done, the savings in electricity and heat energy will be significant. Estonia is not in a very exceptional situation on this issue. In the European Union, 40% of primary energy is used in housing and 36% of total EU CO2 emissions relate to housing. Unfortunately, the situation in Estonia and our southern neighbours is much worse than in the European Union on average, our homes are less insulated regardless of who the minister is. The insulation of apartment buildings and the efficiency of energy use in apartment buildings should be continued anyway. The work has already been done in Estonia. Unfortunately, we can only talk about 500 apartment buildings that have now been renovated in such a way that the efficiency of the use of heat has increased considerably. This is only the beginning and the process must be continued.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U49	Now two issues registered on the spot. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U50	Mr Prime Minister! The insane increase in home expenses has been a reality in recent years, even though they were promised a significant reduction before the elections. I just met Kristiine's elderly. They said that it was the increase in home expenses that has reduced their real pension for several years in a row, especially when pensions were frozen in one year. They also complained that the worst is for those old people who live alone. If our party, or the Centre Party, were to propose to compensate for domestic cost increases, especially for pensioners living alone, and to propose a widow's pension, would you support this idea? This, by the way, has been established in a large number of countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U51	The risk of poverty for pensioners is quite high at all. This is also why the Government of the Republic, together with the Riigikogu, decided not to reduce pensions in 2009 in the global financial crisis, but, as we remember, to increase them by 5%, even though several analysts rejected it. The justification for this was very pragmatic at the time. According to statistics at the time, as much as 48% of pensioners lived below the poverty risk and at the risk of poverty, the percentage being even higher for the elderly living alone. So in your question, it is absolutely right to see the problem: pensioners living alone are one of the most vulnerable groups in the population in Estonia. In my opinion, the key to helping these people is the growth of the economy; pensions can grow together with the growth of the economy. Pensions did increase last year, they will also increase this year, and next year will hopefully be higher than this year and last year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U52	I would like to ask you the last question registered on the ground, Mr Simson.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U53	Prime Minister! Eurostat says that Estonia has experienced the highest price increase in the euro area at the beginning of this year. Our own Statistical Office has not yet published the data in May, but it has published the data in April and these confirm that the price increase in Estonia has been higher than in other countries in the euro area. Compared to last year, the consumer price index was most affected by housing expenditure, which accounted for more than half of the total increase. Two thirds of this, in turn, resulted in 28% more expensive electricity than a year ago and a seventh 4.6% more expensive heat. We have spoken here about the price of electricity not only with you, but also with Juhan Parts and asked him why he did not comply with his party's election promise to bring home expenses down. The ducks have replied that he has fulfilled this promise. What should be the home expenses of the Estonian people, so that you too can be proud of your coalition partner?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U54	In order to reduce home costs, the homeowner must also work together with the country. I am thinking in particular of the insulation of the much-spoken apartment buildings. When heating one building in Estonia takes twice as much heat as in Finland, no other measure will help, only insulation of residential buildings will help. So in any case, we have to do the work. As I said, in Latvia, Lithuania, but also more generally in the European Union as a whole, residential insulation is the main way to reduce energy consumption. We have already done some work in this area. However, I admit that this is too few, although the number of beneficiaries should be around 40,000 Estonian residents, whose home costs have already been greatly reduced due to the use of money from the sale of carbon dioxide emission quotas in the insulation of residential buildings. In the new budget period, we hope to use exactly the same amount of resources to heat homes. So the end of the sale of Kyoto allowances does not mean that the future insulation programme for apartment buildings cannot continue. This has to go on!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U55	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U56	The next question is from my colleague Kajar Lember to the Minister for Regional Affairs, Siim Valmar Kiisler. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U57	Good manager! Good minister! My questions today are motivated by the recent statements made by your party partner, the Minister for Economic Affairs. Since it is not possible to understand the mixed messages when asking about the money going on the roads, to say the least, I am asking you as Regional Minister. The Minister for Economic Affairs has argued, among other things, that the model of municipal funding needs to be reviewed in order to better organise the road management of local authorities. Perhaps you can explain what your colleague might have meant by this, perhaps a new financing model is to be expected?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U58	I can't explain everything he meant when he talked to you. I wasn't in that conversation. But when it comes to the model of municipal funding, first and foremost, if our municipalities could be made bigger, if they joined together, it would be justified to review the tasks and funding. But what did Juhan Parts mean? I assume that, above all, he meant that we have, in addition to the classic revenue base, certain state budget lines from which additional support is given to municipalities. When we were talking about extra funding for local roads, the situation is that the local roads were originally meant to be financed from the municipal income base. In my opinion, this is as local as a task as a task at all. What else? If we look at the compensatory fund model as part of the income base, it takes into account the total length of roads with and without hard cover. The point is that it is often taken into account that if the state has come to the aid and given some extra money, then the local authorities should keep you in order. However, it is not the case that basic maintenance must be paid off from the municipality's own income base.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U59	Please, Mr Lember, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U60	I'm gonna keep doing the same thing. I have not met the Ducks, but I will follow his comments in the media. In one article, Parts also stated more or less the same thing that you are now saying: that the money needed to maintain local roads is included in the municipal income base formula. In essence, Parts argued that the problem with broken roads is not the lack of money, but that the municipality does not want or know how to use the money properly. Let me ask you again: is this the official position of the IRL, or was it simply the entry into the bucket of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U61	Money's always low. I don't know a public authority where they say they have enough money, they're left over, and I'd like to give some away. I was also honoured to be Minister of Regional Affairs at a time when the state's additional funding for local roads was at an absolute peak. But even then, it was said that there was very little money and there was no way to make it. There is certainly another side in the game: on which the municipality decides to spend money on its income base. For example, whether it is important to repair a very large and expensive cultural house or whether it is important to maintain a television channel or to rehabilitate local roads. These are the choices of the municipality itself, and that is the autonomy of the municipality, that it decides why to use its money. In 2007 and 2008, the country had more free money, which was also directed towards improving roads, and now it complains about why it is not getting so much right now. The answer is that there has been no more free money. The situation is that we have municipalities that allocate about ten times as much money as there is additional support from the state, and at the same time there are municipalities who think they should not put a cent into it and say that only this extra money, the additional support from the state is all the money they intend to spend on the road.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U62	Please, Mr Lember, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U63	I am generally of the opinion that, in the current situation, where local roads have gone well, a systemic lack of money is to blame. But that's it. I cannot, however, overcome the strong desire to find out whether the ministers working in our consensus-based government are in the same position outside the office. Do you agree with Mr Parts, who performed a thought flight on television, which led to the conclusion that, for example, in Paide, Kuressaare or Jõhvi, four seasons and a system are guilty of tea holes, but when we talk about the holes in the streets of Tallinn, which we have had a great deal to talk about, the mayor is personally responsible for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U64	I take great care to assess your claim that the Ducks had in mind. I didn't see the TV show myself. On the one hand, the municipality will certainly make its own choices, and if it decides to spend more on another area and as a result, less money is left to keep tea, then it is the municipality's choice. I think we should compare more, which is what local governments are actually spending money on. We really like to talk about the amount of the extra money that the state gave us, but we usually do not want to talk about what choices have been made within the local government's own budget. It should be compared to how much culture costs in one municipality or another, for example, compared to road maintenance, how much education costs and whether these amounts are optimal. We also have such comparison opportunities thanks to a new application called LEO or Transparent Estonian Self-government. With this, we can compare the costs of different municipalities by sector. I think it should be done a lot more than we've done so far. You can always find a municipality in whose territory things are bad and say that the whole country is responsible for this. But perhaps the priorities in this municipality have differed for some reason from those in others. This kind of comparison is not much to be pointed out in general; we want it to be much more. I met with the Chairman of the Norwegian Government Association, who told me that the local government association there ordered various comparative studies on how their local governments spent their money and how effective it was.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U65	Now you can ask the questions registered on the spot. Please, Mr Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U66	Minister, thank you very much. It does not matter to the road user whether the municipality or the state is responsible for the maintenance of roads. Inevitably, we are getting back to the choices of the local governments. When we discussed the same issue here with Minister of Economic Affairs Juhan Parts, he of course referred to the high media costs of Tallinn, including Tallinn Television. I agree this is bullshit and it should be stopped. However, can you give an example of what the local government is doing in very good condition? Tallinn's priorities are always mentioned for example, which, I agree, are bad, but in fact we do not know any local governments where the roads would be in order. For this reason, however, should we not think that local governments should, for example, be allocated 15% of excise duties on fuel? Perhaps there is a mistake in the system, even though Tallinn can always be cited as a bad example, which we all agree with?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U67	That's the right question, or at least a trick question. Now, if I were to give you the name of a local government, I'm sure there would be a big hole in its territory. The condition of the roads will never be perfect. However, I will take the courage to say that, for example, in Setumaa as a whole, the state of the roads has improved considerably in recent years. I'm sure I'm gonna get a lot of criticism now, but that's the way it is. Many Seta have also told me that things have clearly improved. It is true that there has been support from the state, but the municipalities themselves have also paid attention to this area. Like I said, I always want more money. In recent years, this additional national support has probably been one of the fastest-growing budget allocations. This year's growth was over 60% compared to last year, and last year's growth was over 40%. Interestingly, this was also a figure on which we reached an agreement with the Municipalities' Cooperation Council when discussing the 2013 budget. We proposed that the amount could be so large in 2013, and the local government associations agreed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U68	Thank you very much. Our time is up. I thank the honourable Members of the Riigikogu for asking questions and the Prime Minister and other members of the government for answering questions. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U69	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the 16th working week session of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Ladies and gentlemen, there is now an opportunity to pass on drafts and enquiries. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U70	Good manager! Honourable Riigikogu! I understand that everyday political life is very exciting, but nevertheless, we could also look to the future. It is no secret that the risks of our people's old age are grounded to an extent that is not well suited to our wishes. In 2012, one possibility to reduce the risk was added to the employer's pension, where the employer makes contributions to the voluntary pension insurance instead of the person himself. However, this has not proved to be very popular. Voluntaryly people themselves do not insure more because they do not have just money, and employers' contributions to insurance remain random because it is beautifully expensive. In order to contribute to the third pension pillar of their employees, they also need to be paid more into their first and second pillars. We have certain benefits in terms of income tax for these payments. Our group proposes to allow them in the same amount for social tax, i.e. to establish that employers' contributions, which do not exceed 15% of the person's salary or EUR 6000 per year, would be exempt from the pension insurance part of the social tax and would only have to overpay health insurance. This is a draft amendment to § 7 of the Social Tax Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U71	Thank you very much. I have adopted a bill on behalf of the board. If it complies with our Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, the Bureau will decide to accept it within three working days. Now I'll give you the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: first, the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on Supplementing the Environmental Supervision Act, initiated on 3 June, Leading Committee on the Environment; second, the Government of the Republic. a Draft law on the obligation of departure and refusal of entry and amendment of the European Union citizen's law, initiated on 3 June, Committee on Constitutional Affairs; thirdly, in the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on the Ratification of the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child on the Inclusion of Children in Armed Conflicts, launched on 3 June, Committee on Social Affairs; fourthly, in the Government of the Republic. a Draft Law on Succession, Notary Payment Act, Notarial Law and related amendments to other laws, initiated on 3 June, Committee on Legal Affairs; Fifth, in the Government of the Republic. a Draft law on the amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure, initiated on 3 June, Leading Commission on Legal Affairs; Sixth, Riigikogu, European Union Affairs Committee. a Proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Council Directives 78/660/EEC and 83/349/EEC as regards disclosure of information on non-financial information and diversity by large companies and groups of companies, draft failure to comply with the principle of subsidiarity, Steering Committee was submitted to the President of the European Parliament and the European Commission on 3 June. I passed on an inquiry into the members of the Riigikogu to Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for a presence check. 81 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 20 missing. Now let's clarify the agenda. Since yesterday we did not have three items on the agenda, they have been included on today's agenda as follows: firstly, the first reading of the draft law amending the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act 427 is today item No 8 (previous item No 5); secondly, the first reading of the draft law amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group 422 is today item No 9 (previous item No 6); third, the first reading of the draft law amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Estonian Central Party Group is today item No 10 (previous item No 7). The first reading of item 8 originally scheduled for today, which was the first reading of Bill 403 of the Act amending the Product Compliance Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and item 9 of the Bill 404 of the Public Transport Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, is on today's agenda items 11 and 12 respectively. Ladies and gentlemen, let us move on to today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U72	The first item on the agenda is the third reading of the Bill 394 of Amendment to the Copyright Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. We can go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I will vote in the final vote on the draft law amending the Copyright Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please vote! 78 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U73	We will begin the third reading of the draft law amending § 131 of the Waste Act initiated by the Committee on the Environment. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. We will also go to the final vote on this bill. Dear Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote the draft law amending § 131 of the Waste Act initiated by the Committee on the Environment 421. Please vote! 78 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U74	The third item is the second reading of the draft Act on ratification of the Convention establishing a European Organisation for the Use of Meteorological Satellites, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and the Protocol amending it. Rein Randver, Member of the Environment Committee of the Speaker's Board, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U75	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of Draft Act 411 on the ratification of the Convention establishing a European Organisation for the Use of Meteorological Satellites and the Protocol amending it was completed on 8 May. No amendments to the draft were received. The Committee on the Environment had a debate on the draft on 20 May. It provided an overview of the progress of the draft procedure. The draft contains linguistic and technical specifications which do not change the content. I will also introduce to you the procedural decisions of the Committee on the Environment. It was decided to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the second reading of draft 411 be placed on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 5 June. As a second point, it was decided to propose to the Assembly that the draft be put to the final vote on 411 and adopted as a law. Both decisions were made by consensus.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U76	Thank you very much, Mr Randver. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. As there are no amendments to the draft law, we can go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I will vote in the final vote on the draft Act on ratification of the Convention establishing a European Organisation for the Use of Meteorological Satellites, initiated by the Government of the Republic, and the Protocol amending it 411. Please vote! 71 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U77	The next item is the second reading of draft Act 412 on the ratification of the Protocol on Privileges and Integrity of the European Organisation for the Use of Meteorological Satellites, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Rein Randver, Member of the Environment Committee of the Speaker's Board, for a presentation once more.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U78	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft Act 412 on the ratification of the privileges and immunity protocol of the European Organisation for the Use of Meteorological Satellites was completed in the large hall on 8 May. The Committee on the Environment had a debate on the draft on 20 May. It introduced the current procedure and also took procedural decisions. It was decided to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the second reading of draft 412 be placed on the agenda of the Riigikogu sitting today, 5 June. It was also decided to propose a final vote on the draft 412 and to adopt it as a law. All members of the Commission were in favour of this. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U79	Thank you very much, Mr Randver. There don't seem to be any questions. Thanks again. Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. There are no amendments; we can go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am final voting on the draft Act 412 on ratification of the Protocol on Privileges and Integrity of the European Organisation for the Use of Meteorological Satellites, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please vote! 68 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U80	The next item is the second reading of the Bill 391 on Amending the Water Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask my colleague, Mr Kõiv, from the Committee on the Environment, for the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U81	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As we know, the first reading of the draft law amending the Water Act was completed on 10 April this year and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 4 p.m. on 24 April. Riigikogu members Liisa-Ly Pakosta and Tõnis Kõiv submitted six proposals to amend the draft. They wanted to bring regulation on the scope of the law to the level of the law, reduce the amount of sewage works to 150 metres, on large sewage treatment plants during a transitional period of five years and an average of ten years, and lay down conditions for the treatment of sewage sludge, which would prevent unpleasant smell from reaching the population. In order to implement the conditions, the authors of the amendments also provided for a transitional period of five and ten years respectively. The proposals presented were largely based on the conclusions of the report approved by the Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu at the beginning of this year. The Committee on the Environment finalised two amendments. During the period between the first and second reading of the draft proposal, the draft has been dealt with three times at the Commission's meeting. Representatives of the Estonian Beef Farmers' Association participated in the joint meeting of the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Rural Affairs on 22 April, who announced their opinion on the mutual effects of agriculture and the environment covered by the draft opinion. At the meeting of the Committee on the Environment on 16 May, six amendments submitted by two members of the Riigikogu were discussed with representatives of the Association of Estonian Cities, the Association of Estonian Rural Governments and the Association of Estonian Water Enterprises. All Commission meetings on this draft have been attended and explained by representatives of the Ministry of the Environment. Now from the course of the debate. While most participants agreed on the problem of environmental disturbance or smell from waste water treatment plants, the potential cost of the changes, i.e. the impact on the price of the service, raised questions. The options for supporting the planned investments in the next EU budget period were examined and asked how the relevant technological choices should be made, whether water undertakings themselves or in accordance with the guidelines of the Ministry of the Environment, or even directly in compliance with the law. There was much debate about the wording of the amendment concerning the treatment of sewage sludge. Despite discussions at committee meetings, there was no consensus on the amendments proposed by two members of the Riigikogu on the committee, and the performers decided to withdraw their proposals at their meeting on 20 May. The Committee on the Environment has decided to make two amendments, and now I will present them as well. Amendment 1 is based on information received by the Commission according to which fuel tanks installed in the last 10 years and currently complying with the law should be rebuilt if the concept of "no change' set out in points 4, 5 and 20 of the draft is applied. The law currently in force has required that the distance from the civilian building be determined. The oil product storage building is permitted to be installed near the production building. The concept of civil building is not used in the draft. In order to address this problem, the draft clarifies the wording of the definition of the body (the concept of a building is incorporated in such a way as to refer to a building in which people are permanently present) as follows: In accordance with the additional provisions of § 26 of the Water Act, sewerage constructions, pipelines excluding the smallest distance allowed from the housing, accommodation, treatment, sports, education, trade and service building, as well as from the transport building that regularly serves people, and from the wells and wells, are considered to be a sewerage building within the meaning of the Water Act. The external surface of the container of that building, or its filling or discharge hole, shall be considered to be the smallest distance permitted from a major accident risk establishment, a well and experience without a sanitary protection area, a accommodation, treatment, sports, education, trade and service building, as well as a transport building that regularly serves people. As a result of the above, the draft also amends the additional provisions of § 26 and § 401 of the Water Act and gives them the appropriate wording. Within the framework of a sewerage building, buildings and industrial and warehouse buildings, transport buildings other than those mentioned in subsection 31 of this section, may be located. Buildings, industrial, storage and agricultural buildings and transport buildings other than those mentioned in subsection 32 of this section may be located in the perimeter of the oil-holding building. This amendment of the Committee on the Environment is then proposed by the Riigikogu Legal and Analytical Department and the Ministry of the Environment. Now Amendment 2, which is also made by the Commission. The second sentence is deleted from the text of § 261 additional paragraph 41 of the Water Act, according to which the maximum level of nitrogen and phosphorus fixed in the first sentence of that provision is not allowed to be granted per hectare of arable land 170 kg of nitrogen and 25 kg of phosphorus per year for manure, including treated manure, and also to be exceeded by manure generated from animal excrement when grazing on natural grassland. This change has been made at the request of the Estonian Beef Farmers' Association and other farmers' associations. Otherwise, the requirement of § 261 additional paragraph 41 of the Water Act would put meat farmers and organic keepers in a difficult situation. This would not take account of the real circumstances and would be a disproportionate measure compared to the objective pursued. However, the initiator does not consider this change to be the final option and intends to consult representatives of livestock farmers and other relevant organisations, which would be the best solution. Animal production statistics show a steady expansion of beef production and an increase in the number of animals, while, according to water surveyers in the country, the nitrogen and phosphorus loads of water have increased. The initiator of the draft considers that it is particularly difficult to keep animals outdoors in winter, when the animals are concentrated on a small area where they are then fed. This feeding site is contaminated with animal faeces mixed with snow, soil and fodder residues, and in spring such a site is a dangerous point source of pollution that threatens both surface water and groundwater. In the opinion of the initiator of the draft act, keeping meat cattle, as well as sheep and goats outdoors throughout the year, should be better regulated in terms of environmental protection, in particular water protection. In order to solve technical problems, § 1 (9) to (11) of the draft has been amended in the draft. Point 10 shall read point 9, point 11 shall read point 10 and point 9 shall read point 11. Consequently, § 261 paragraphs of the Water Act relating to the amendments have also been amended. Further technical and linguistic changes have been made to the draft, which in no case alter the content of the draft. For example, pursuant to Amendment 2, the text of § 2 of the amended draft has been amended and it has been stated that the provisions which enter into force on 1 July 2014 are § 1 (6) to (8) and (11) of the draft. At its meeting on 20 May, the Committee on the Environment decided to propose to the Riigikogu plenary that its second reading be terminated and that when the second reading is completed, the draft be sent to the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U82	Thank you very much, Mr Kõiv. Now the questions. Please, Mr Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U83	Dear waitress, I have a question about six amendments made by colleagues Tõnis Kõiv and Liisa-Ly Pakosta which they have withdrawn. The desire to deal with the smell problems of waste water treatment is welcome, but both the Association of Estonian Cities and the Association of Estonian Rural Governments opposed these six proposals. The reason is very simple: simply the price of water in Tallinn, Narva, Pärnu, Rakvere, Tartu and Kohtla-Järve would have increased enormously and, as there was no economic accounting and environmental impact analysis, the Commission did not support these proposals. I have a specific question for you, Tõnis, as one of the proposers. Will we come back to these proposals, for example, in the autumn or in a year's time, or will they be finally thrown into the trash because of economic considerations?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U84	The views of the Estonian Association of Cities and the Estonian Association of Rural Governments should be clarified here, and I have already sought them out. If we specifically take the position of the Cities Union, they are really concerned that it is not possible to accurately assess the impact of these changes and therefore find it difficult for them to support this proposal. At the same time, they value the issue of sewage sludge and consider it important for people. The Municipalities Association has less contact with this change, based on the location of waste water treatment plants. They also have less exposure to assessing both the costs that affect the prices of water and sanitation for the population and their compliance with the objective, but they are also clearly not opposed to this proposal. The reason is very simple. Self-government leaders in a community of cities and rural municipalities understand very clearly that people's quality of life is disrupted and suffer when the smell from the work of the waste water treatment plant reaches them. Can you throw this problem in the trash or leave it unsolved? No, absolutely not. The purpose of these changes is to improve people's quality of life, protect them from smell, so that some people do not have to pay double: first on account of water and sanitation and, in addition, by breathing in the smell, by letting their quality of life be reduced. It's not fair, and it can't last like this. What else could be highlighted? Obviously, both the Cities Union and the Association of Rural Governments, which, for obvious reasons, have not so much dealt with the issue and have not been very well aware of it, have been the starting point for taking a position as if this amendment had been the basis for some kind of decision having an economic impact. In fact, this starting point is not zero, so if nothing is changed, nothing needs to be done, but this starting point is different. According to the rules already in force, water companies have an obligation to handle their sewage sludge properly, i.e. in such a way that this treatment takes place within three years and the result of the sewage sludge treatment process, the quality compost would really be of high quality in order to be able to re-introduce it. At the same time, the problems of water companies are widely known, in many cases it is not possible to manage these processes properly. The good quality of compost is not guaranteed and therefore it cannot be placed anywhere, must be kept in storage and problems cannot be resolved. Trouble's building up. Inevitably, water companies are thus faced with choices. They have to do something, they have to invest. This change would only have helped them to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U85	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U86	Honourable waitress! You mentioned that beef farmers came to see your committee. What was their main concern, and will this bill promise them additional expenses?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U87	Yeah, the beef farmers came, and they basically talked about their problems. They did not have concrete proposals on how their problems should be addressed. They spoke of them and expressed their hope that the members of the Committee on the Environment would try to find a solution if they understood their concerns. The main concern, to put it lightly, was that, if the original wording had become the law and entered into force, it would have meant that the feeding and watering places outside the animals would have either been abolished or very much redeployed. This is because it is very likely that the pollution load in the feeding and watering area would have gone well beyond the permitted standards. The Committee on the Environment acknowledges that there is neither the interest of livestock farmers in doing so, but we cannot allow pollution. The compromise is that the current wording does not require the immediate conversion of feeding and watering sites or, worse still, shutting down, but still sets out rules to draw attention to the pollution burden on feeding sites. In addition, there is the decree of the Minister for Agriculture, which gives more precise guidance on how pollution loads are taken into account. As I said, discussions are also continuing between the Ministry of the Environment and the representative organisations of livestock farmers. I hope that together they will find even better solutions in the course of their further work than we will see on this table today.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U88	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Kõiv. Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Two amendments have been tabled to the draft law, as we have heard. The first is that of the Committee on the Environment and is fully taken into account. The second is also the proposal of the lead committee and is fully taken into account. Second reading of bill 391 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U89	We will begin the second reading of Bill 331 of the Vocational Training Institution Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Lauri Luige, Member of the Cultural Committee of the Speaker's Board, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U90	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The following is an overview of the processing of the draft VET Act. Let the aim of the law, which is broadly to modernise vocational education, improve the quality and flexibility of vocational training, improve accessibility, reduce the drop-out rate for learners and increase output orientation, be over-reconciled. The first reading of the bill took place in this large hall on 30 January. a. On that occasion, the main topics were the transition to Estonian-language education and the provision of professional higher education in vocational education institutions. In the meantime, we met all the parties and received very good feedback from them, on the basis of which the Committee on Culture itself has tabled a number of amendments. Other parties have also submitted their proposals to discuss with us. In order to prepare for the second reading, we discussed this draft at eight meetings of the Commission. In January we met stakeholders, in March we visited Tallinn Service School to get a better picture of how it really looks and works. We discussed separately the possibility of providing professional higher education in vocational schools. At the end of May and early June, we also discussed the part of the Defence Forces Service Act concerning the extension of the period of conscription. Next, I will give you an overview of the most important issues and the amendments that have been distributed to you on the tables. I'm not going to report all the details, if there are any questions, we'll be able to clarify later. Then let's start over. Amendment 2 concerns the social partners. It aims to harmonise the concept of social partners throughout the draft. The broader objective is to be as well integrated as possible with the labour market and the business environment before starting education. Amendments 4 and 5 concern the right to apply higher education in vocational training institutions. This was the subject that most responded to the issue of language in this large hall. It was also an important topic for discussion in the Commission. Among the parties, we met with Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre and Tallinn School of Economics, who are most affected by this draft point. The initial idea of the draft was to withdraw the right to apply higher education from vocational schools. However, the Commission decided to maintain the opposite view, according to which professional higher education could continue to be provided in VET institutions. This is where we disagreed with the Ministry of Education. Amendment 12 concerns national curricula. The Ministry of Education and Research is authorised to establish national curricula for vocational training. Amendment 14 is about opening the curriculum. For example, if in the future we are going to provide a fifth level of training in vocational education, this amendment concerns the opening of an analogous curriculum. Accreditation must certainly have a controlled quality in order to be a level-based curriculum. Amendment 15 concerns the conditions of admission to school. The 16th and 17th proposals address the issue of the language of instruction in vocational training programmes. This was also a question where the Commission disagreed on the proposal of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The Commission decided to continue the course taken, i.e. the requirement that 60% of upper secondary vocational education should also be transferred to Estonian by 2020. I stress that it will be possible to acquire the invitation in a language other than Estonian in the future. However, if secondary education is to be sought, it requires the knowledge of the Estonian language and a study programme of 60% in Estonian. Amendments 18 and 19 concern traineeships in the working environment and practical work in the learning environment. We make the system a little more flexible and give students the opportunity to do part of the internship, for example, in the school learning environment. It is important to note here that we continue to focus on better cooperation with business. Amendment 22 is on qualifications requirements for teachers and teachers. Here we also make regulation more flexible so that professionals can be involved, whether or not they have a master's degree or not. If a person is still a specialist in his or her field, this provision gives him or her the opportunity to be involved. Amendments 25 and 26 concern the basic teacher allowance. Here the Commission has decided to extend the range of applicants for starting aid. We also give the right to apply for initial support in the future for those who are aspiring or receiving teachers who have a higher education qualification but who do not have a teacher or teacher qualification. Amendment 29 concerns the ceiling for reimbursement of study costs. Similarly to the amendment made to the University Act, we also set a ceiling for the reimbursement of study costs in vocational training for those who do not study on the basis of a public training order, so that there is a ceiling. Amendment 31 concerns selective accreditation and in particular transitional accreditation provisions. There, this period is simply extended by three months. Amendment 34 concerns the amendments to the professional law that are necessary to enable us to fully and successfully implement this legislation on vocational training, without any difficulty. There are two other important issues. One of these is the participation of vocational schools in the activities of non-profit organisations. In my opinion, this is, in itself, a very sensible proposal that vocational training institutions should cooperate with associations and NGOs, which are professionally linked to them. Since this is not in accordance with the State Property Act or the Local Government Organisation Act, the Commission decided that we cannot support this proposal now, but we have instructed the Ministry of Education and Research to continue to deal with this issue. So hopefully, by law, we can eliminate these small cuts and implement this proposal in the future. The final issue is calling for service. With this amendment, by law, we give the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Resources Board the right to extend the summoning of the Defence Forces until the end of the student's studies. The problem is that, for example, students who study the art of presentation should be in the military in the meantime before their studies are completed. We create a flexible possibility by law to extend this period until the end of these studies. It is important to note that at present, this change does not directly affect students participating in vocational training, but it may, in future, if we incorporate a new level 5 (a technician's profession), affect these students. The remaining amendments are linguistic and technical. I'm not going to report them here separately, you can read about the materials you have on your desk. At the meeting of 23 May, the Committee on Culture decided to submit a draft Vocational Training Institution Act to second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu, i.e. by 5 June. The Committee on Culture proposes that the second reading be completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U91	Thank you very much, Mr Luik. Let's continue with the questions. Please, Mr Kalvi Tough!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U92	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good Commission waitress! I am sincerely pleased that my amendment was taken into account by the Commission and that Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre can continue to provide professional higher education in Võrumaa. But I am a little concerned that the Ministry, despite the long-standing work you did in the Commission, still disagreed and thinks that professional higher education should not be given in a vocational training institution. As a result of the Commission's discussions, what is your assessment of whether the Ministry can come up with any further steps to limit this possibility? For example, schools providing professional higher education have already reduced public orders. What steps can the ministry take to tighten this up?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U93	Thank you, Kalvi! Personally, I think it is very right and fair to allow professional higher education in vocational schools, because our Estonia is so small. These two specific cases that I mentioned, Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre and Tallinn School of Economics why should we start breaking the functioning system? Moreover, in Võrumaa, it would close an important course of study which is not available elsewhere in Estonia. And here's another aspect of why I think it makes sense to continue the current system: we have a whole range of professional universities offering vocational education. So it's a 'bilateral' thing, but no such plan to lose vocational training in professional higher education, as far as I know, the Ministry doesn't. I do not want to speculate on what steps the Ministry may have in mind in this regard. However, what I will say is that in the future, it will be possible to offer a curriculum of applied higher education once this curriculum is accredited, but accreditation is not a matter of law. Since there is either full accreditation or partial accreditation in these curricula, which we are talking about and which concern Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre, for example, there is no problem with them. But it may be accreditation that may question the opening of the curriculum in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U94	Please, my colleague Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U95	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Honourable waitress! Amendment 32 amends the Defence Service Act. This was proposed by the Committee on Culture as the lead committee. In view of the good practice developed in the Riigikogu, did the amendment of the Defence Forces Service Act also consider addressing the Sectoral Commission, the National Defence Committee? What is your opinion, could you still have asked for the position of the National Defence Committee?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U96	Thank you. I am of the opinion that there is no doubt that good practice should be observed. However, since we had this question on the table a few days ago and we needed adequate feedback quite quickly, the Commission decided that we would ask directly the source, the Defence Resources Agency and the Ministry of Defence, where the problem really lies and how we could best solve this problem. Ultimately, however, I certainly agree that good practice must be followed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U97	Please, Mr Aivar Kokk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U98	Good manager! Good waitress! I understand that the main objective of this law is to bring vocational education to such a good level that there is no concern about getting a job. Can you tell us how to guarantee vocational training institutions with this law that the most modern technology and latest equipment will be used there? So that it doesn't happen that you learn from some kind of ten-year-old technology, and when you go to work in a company, it turns out there's nothing to do with what you've learned.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U99	Thank you. The law does not directly prescribe the amounts of money or investment that should go to educational institutions. Funding is a matter of regulation. However, having visited a number of vocational training institutions all over Estonia, I dare say that their infrastructure and learning conditions are largely excellent and up-to-date. The future cannot be guaranteed by law; this must be done jointly. I think that even greater involvement of entrepreneurs from the beginning to the end of the curriculum is a key issue, and the draft law under discussion will certainly help to ensure that entrepreneurs operating in Estonia are interested in getting qualified, trained people from the vocational training institution.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U100	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U101	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I'd like to be more specific. Am I right to understand that 60% of Estonian-language education provides a guarantee that students in a vocational education institution will receive a secondary education?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U102	We still have to pass the exams.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U103	Let me get this straight. This secondary school is high school. But at what level do others who do not choose the option who choose to study in another language receive a graduation certificate? That's one side of the question. Secondly, did you also take into account the situation in Narva, whether the state and the municipality, in cooperation, can develop this area?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U104	Thank you. Indeed, as I mentioned, it is also possible to receive an invitation by studying in Russian. However, if you want to receive secondary education equivalent to upper secondary school education, you need to complete education under pre-specified conditions, i.e. 60% of the curriculum must be completed in Estonian. As far as the whole language issue is concerned more broadly, the attitude of the Committee on Culture has been, from the outset, aside from the dissent of the members of the committee, that we continue to pursue the fundamental course taken at the beginning of the 1990s, by which at least 60% would be transferred to education in Estonian, just as it is at the upper secondary school level of general education schools. In my opinion, this is primarily a favor for our young people who will hopefully be working on the Estonian labour market in the future. They would then have good enough preparation to integrate into this environment immediately and well if they knew the official language.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U105	Please, Mr Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U106	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, As you described, there were very heated discussions in the Commission. Would you explain the main reasons why Võru Vocational Education Centre and Tallinn School of Economics were hit and it was decided that professional higher education would no longer be awarded there? The other half of my question: is this bill not now preventing new professional schools from entering the Estonian landscape, where professional higher education would be given?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U107	Thank you. As I mentioned earlier, in order to open a curriculum for applied higher education, it must have accreditation. If it's okay on the accreditation side, I don't see any obstacles. I assume that the Ministry's intention in making this amendment was to organise and harmonise our education system. Their wish is for the VET institution to provide vocational education and academic education. However, since this law introduces a fifth level of professionalism, which we have not yet decorated directly, but which we are creating in the framework, I assume that this was also one of the reasons why it was intended to eliminate the possibility of offering professional higher education in vocational schools. My position, as well as that of the other members of the Commission and the parties invited, was that Estonia is small enough and we need to be flexible in this respect. We cannot force ourselves to shut the door without thinking about the consequences that could be caused, for example, by the closure of the course of wood processing in Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U108	Please, Mr Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U109	Thank you. Dear waitress, We have parallel forms of education in terms of the level of education in secondary vocational education and general secondary education. Therefore, the same language of instruction has been introduced in the draft. You will certainly agree that at present very many students and training staff are not ready to move to the required 60%. As a result, it is the implementation period in the draft that most curricula will be transitioned in 2017. If the Ministry of Education and Research is not able to raise the Estonian language level of middle school graduates enough by then, how do you think this will affect the secondary vocational education that these children receive? Secondly, why is it not possible, as is the case with the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, to provide for a possible exception by the schoolkeeper, who is usually the same ministry or government?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U110	Thank you. The Commission, including me, was of the opinion that seven years (until 2020) we are setting out is long enough for the transition to take place correctly. My personal view is that since we have been talking about this from the beginning of the 1990s, it should not come as news to anyone. I am quite resolute in this respect that there is no need to make any additional distinctions here. However, it is indeed important to place emphasis on language learning at the level of basic education. My personal opinion is that there should be more active promotion and use of immersion in schools. We've got Nikolai school in Haapsalu that works. I went to one class, and it was really great. Of course, this should be addressed in pre-school childcare facilities. It is not my interest, or anyone else's interest, that someone gets caught in the gears somewhere, rather the opposite, so that the young people who are going into the labour market in the future can succeed there. The sooner they have to pick themselves up, the better. At some point, when you go out of safe school walls into real life, reality hits you on the head with a tough hammer anyway. So my point is, the sooner the better.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U111	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U112	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! The last part of my first question concerned Narva, which was somehow out of the question. I'm trying to clarify why I asked about Narva. You know that there is actually no Estonian environment in Narva. There are nearly 100% of non-Estonians in the Narva study centre, and most of them have gone there to study because their Estonian language level is weaker and they cannot continue to study in upper secondary school. How and whether the situation in Narva was taken into account at the Commission meeting? If yes, what kind of cooperation was envisaged between the government and the municipality?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U113	Thank you. We did not have long discussions directly on Narva, but the topic of how to deal with young people who might have problems really went through the discussion. I repeat once again: the Commission believes that the seven-year transitional period is long enough for those regions where there really is a problem to deal with it in a formalised manner. There must be additional resources to be devoted to it, and I am absolutely in that mind. The plan is to invest funding from the European Structural Funds for the next period in both teacher training and training at all levels. It's the Ministry's plan. Once again, there is a personal opinion: I believe that where there is a problem, more attention and additional resources must be directed. I'd forge more immersion training.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U114	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U115	Thank you. The end of the question was lost, but I understood the question. The figures that you mentioned, if they are true, I have to check them out, but I have reason to believe that they may be adequate, indicate that there are problems and that they need to be dealt with. What the Ministry of Education has done or has not done in previous years has been very difficult for me personally, but I can say now so much that this problem needs to be addressed. Seven years is long enough to pick it up and fix it. I do not see the need to change the principles agreed decades ago. Rather, we need to pull ourselves together, focus our powers and do it. Nothing is impossible in this world, especially learning the language.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U116	Evgeny Ossinovski, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U117	Thank you. I'll continue with my last question. After all, this is not about whether anyone knew what this was supposed to be like in the 1990s or whether you were specifically resolute or not. The aim should still be for young people to receive high-quality education. Proficiency in Estonian is certainly part of high-quality education, but the point is that in Russian comprehensive school, the average result of the final exam of Estonian is about what Mr Stalnukhin just said. Of course, this is not enough to achieve high quality secondary education. You say that there is seven years, but there is not really seven years, because by 2020, these children must have completed 60% of the curriculum in Estonian. This transition will start in most cases in 2017, in some cases also in 2016, with a period of three or four years. Are you sure that the Ministry of Education and Research will be able to achieve such an improvement in the results of language learning that these children will receive quality education? What if it doesn't work?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U118	Thank you. Our goal in the field of education, be it general education, vocational education or higher education, is to get a high-quality result. Our goal number one is quality education. All our efforts are aimed at this. I still think that the prescribed time is long enough to move to 60% of Estonian-language learning, and long enough for us to be more able to contribute to teacher training, where perhaps there are real problems, so that the educational materials can be improved compared to today, as well as to ensure that real results are improved and that Russian young people will have a great chance to succeed in the Estonian labour market in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U119	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U120	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, The adoption of the new basic school and upper secondary school law reduced the number of schools, and not only because there are fewer children, but it also completely changed the working conditions of these schools. That is why I have the question. Did you discuss in the Commission how the adoption of the VET Act will affect the number of schools, whether the number will decrease or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U121	Thank you. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on this proposal. Dear colleagues, I am voting on Amendment 17 tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please take a stand and vote. 24 members of the Riigikogu, 44 against, no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. Amendment 18 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 19 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is to take account of the substance. Amendments 20 to 22 have been tabled by the lead committee. The 23rd amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is to take account of the substance. Amendments 24 and 25 have been tabled by the lead committee. The 26th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is to take account of the substance. The 27th amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. The 28th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is to take the substance into account. Amendment 29 has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 30 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Amendments 31 to 35 have been tabled by the lead committee. The 36th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Culture; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendments 37 to 41 have been tabled by the lead committee. Dear colleagues, we have examined all the amendments. The position of the commission is that the second reading should be terminated. The second reading is closed and the sixth item on the agenda is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U122	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, When Russian middle school graduates took the state test of Estonian last year, I hope you can hear what I'm talking about right now, the average was 47 out of 100. In the year before last, 49 balls were scored. It's not growing, it's dropping. There are several reasons, but the trend is that the number of balls is decreasing. By 2020, the average could be 35, with students taking 70%, 80%, 90% of the exams, and those receiving 10, 15, 20 points. That's how the mean is formed. Twenty-two years have been said that we have to deal with teaching, but 22 years have not even made sensible dictionaries for Russian schools, not to mention methodologies, teaching, etc. How can you even accept such a thing and in favour of it...
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U123	Thank you. This is a broader issue and concerns not only the VET Act, but also the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act. This was not directly discussed in the Commission, but since the education issues are close to my heart, I will respond. Indeed, one of the objectives of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act is to ensure quality education. In order to ensure quality education, we need to organise the financing of our education, in order to organise funding, we need to organise a network of educational institutions, or a school network. The school network is already in full swing. Large, strong upper secondary schools are emerging, which means that some of the smaller ones are put together. The aim is to maintain a strong network of comprehensive schools. I do not see a direct link between the implementation of the VET Act and how our network of Estonian general education schools changes or does not change. But the fact is that the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act is drifting towards improving the network of basic schools and upper secondary schools to provide better and better education, to make schools more sustainable, to provide teachers with full workload, etc. I do not see a direct link, but there will certainly be changes in our educational landscape in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U124	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Riigikogu speech chair Kalvi Tough, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U125	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, It is a great pleasure for me to come to the Riigikogu Speech Centre and talk for a few minutes about our flagship for cooperation in education, science and entrepreneurship in Võrumaa, Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre. At the end of last year and at the beginning of this year, when the Minister of Education, elected from Võrumaa, came up with a plan to complete professional higher education at Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre, a small storm broke out in Võrumaa, and his resentment for the Minister's plan was demonstrated by the local government, county government and entrepreneurs as well as school alumni and current students. I think that, as a result of the work of all parties, both municipalities and entrepreneurs, it is now a pleasure to note that the amendments Nos 4 and 5 tabled by me and the Committee on Culture have been taken into account, and the cloud of concern has been a little pushed away from Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre. On the subject of how the VET centre is doing now and what are the concerns, I could talk for a very long time, but certainly in some time. Those young people who would like to go to Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre to complete applied higher education are far more than national places. The public order should certainly be increased, all the more so since this year the Old-Antsla Agricultural School has also been joined by Võrumaa Vocational Education Centre. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that it will remain as the Commission has proposed to us. The Commission has taken note of Amendments 4 and 5 and hopefully no one will put them to the vote in this Chamber today and we will not vote on them again. If that is true, I am in favour of adopting this law in the final vote, although I must admit that the very many important points that the Group of the Social Democratic Party has tabled as amendments have not been taken into account. But my heart, as a crown, is voting in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U126	Thank you. I ask the Riigikogu to speak to Mikhail Stalnukhin! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U127	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, some of you were members of the Communist Party 25 years ago, do not take it personally. I just have to say it today: I don't like communists. On a day like this, and at a moment like this, I'm just gonna hate candy. Who's a communist in my eyes? It's a bureaucrat, it's one who doesn't care about any particular person. He puts his purpose before you, and then he breaks bones, and then he bleeds blood to achieve it, even though it's purely fictional. Just as Khrushchev said in 1960: in the 1980s, we all live in communism. As Gorbachev said in 1986: by 2000, every Soviet person will live in a separate apartment. These objectives, the objectives set, may be mentioned, mentioned and mentioned. Now, as I understand it, in the Riigikogu, all the basic Commies are in the Committee on Culture, because the same ideology continues there, they push it through with the same methods. Listen, 14 years ago we talked long about school reform in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. Either in 2001 or 2002, we made a compromise. It consisted of three parts in a form that was understandable to each person. In order for schools to be able to work in an Estonian language that is not opposed by anyone in this country, three things are needed: firstly, children must master the Estonian language at a level that enables them to study in Estonian in upper secondary school; secondly, there must be teaching tools that take account of psychological, mental differences between Estonian and Russian children; thirdly, teachers who speak Estonian perfectly and understand the psychology of their students, why and at what point they do not understand something and are unable to understand, because Estonian is not their mother tongue. This transition to the Estonian-language upper secondary school was pushed through, but I tell you that none of the three parts have been completed so far. Coalition, you're playing with the fate of people here, their future! You don't give a shit, you sit there in the Ministry of Education, I say politely, some populist pack who hasn't prepared any of the teaching tools that were agreed upon in all these years. I have to remind you, I do not boast about it, but this year I released a Russian-Estonian dictionary, which has not been the case throughout the period of independence and without which, I tell you, it is not possible to learn Estonian. How they've gotten over it, that's a big question. The teachers have not been prepared. When I hear some young Narva optimist talk about how he teaches in several schools in Estonian, and I understand that his language is far from perfect, I mean, listen, man, do you understand the responsibility you have assumed, how you are ruining children's lives now, if you don't know the language and really don't understand what's going on in their heads when they listen to your Estonian. The same direction has now been taken again. There's a kindergarten story about how a immersion saves, a immersion saves. The city of Haapsalu serves as an example. Hey, who are they if they're not candy? When we are talking about the economy and social policy and we are bringing Germany or Finland as an example, we are instantly set up and said that Estonia is something else, we have our conditions. Do you really not find it funny to hear the level of language learning, the effectiveness, the process in Haapsalu and Narva? Do you really not see the difference between what you're thinking? I'm an optimist anyway. I've been in vocational school since 1987, for many years. I know these kids. After the first year of work, I went to Mrs. Vereshšagina, the headmaster of the vocational school, who also taught Estonian, and I asked what we were doing right when we looked at which children were coming to this school. For example, I had a group of boys, none of whom had less than three doubles at primary school and the behavior was satisfactory at best. You can see how you can teach under such circumstances. He told me honestly, "The state needs workers. But you're sitting here in vocational school to admire you, I'm sorry, listen to what you're saying. Maybe they'll make something. Most importantly, you're holding them here so they don't punk on city streets. " That was honest. Has anything changed? Nothing's changed. Vocational schools come from children who have received 20 out of 100 on the comprehensive school final. And here we are talking about them starting to study in Estonian. They don't make that choice, they don't! For you to know, ladies and gentlemen, there are more and more children in Narva every year who are already studying at the Jaanilinna school in Ivangorod. And they're starting to grow. Do you want future workers to get out of here? Currently, only those who want to receive higher education leave the country. At first, the situation is that future workers, taxpayers, whom we will soon be looking for in the middle of the day with a lamp, will remain in Estonia. You are creating conditions for them to leave the country. It's crazy, it's crazy, it's what we're doing to you! The worst part is that when you attack the time that was 23 years ago, you do not realize that you have taken over the lifestyle of that time to be taken into the Communist Party without a waiting period. You guys work like candy at the time. Four, which won't get stuck, you can write it as your slogan, that's the right thing, not what you're saying. You are currently destroying the vocational education system in Estonia, putting a bomb on it. I understand that my calls here are of no use, you have your ears stuck, but I had to say no to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U128	Thank you. I ask for the Riigikogu speech chair Jaak Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U129	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, It is, of course, quite interesting to speak here after Mr Stalnukhin's speech addressed to me, Mr Korb and Mr Jalak. But I must say that, in essence, I agree with Mr Stalnukhin that Bolshevik ideology is being implemented in Estonia's leadership. I would only improve that the comrades Mr Khrushchev and Mr Gorbachev, mentioned by him, were still part of the Communist right. But if you come to the point, in the last year, the Riigikogu has discussed three draft laws concerning a large education system: in the language of speech, we can talk about higher education reform, upper secondary school reform and vocational education reform. Today's second-reading draft VET Act is a pleasant exception. Its preparation took into account the views of all relevant stakeholders and organisations, and during the discussion of the draft in the Committee on Culture, it was felt that both the Ministry of Education and the Government Coalition were seeking to reach a cross-party consensus that would ensure the sustainability of this law and would also give our vocational education system a clear and firm orientation for the future. I would like to highlight here both the head of the Department of Vocational and Adult Education of the Ministry, Mr Andres Punga, and the chairman of the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu, Mr Urmas Klaas, a very constructive and active approach to overcoming disputes in the original draft and shaping common positions. There is only one question left today, which is why the Social Democrats cannot fully and unambiguously support this draft. This concerns § 29 of the draft law, or the question of language of instruction. Currently, in our vocational education system, 29 schools are run by the state, the Ministry of Education and Research. There are three municipal vocational institutes: Tallinn Kopli Vocational School, Tartu Vocational Education Centre and Väike-Maarja Educational Centre. There are nine private vocational schools and their language of instruction is already Estonian. Thus, the Ministry of Education and Research has 100 per cent of the decision-making of a language of instruction different from the Estonian language. Currently, Russian-language curricula are taught in several professions in Tallinn, Narva, Sillamäe and Jõhvi vocational education centres. The text of the draft submitted to us provides that the language of study of the curriculum of vocational secondary education is Estonian. The other language of study in the curriculum will be decided by the school manager, with the school being obliged to ensure the transition to the Estonian language of study in secondary vocational education by 1 September 2020 at the latest. Thus, in vocational training which does not provide secondary education, non-Estonian education can be maintained "forever" on the basis of the decision of the schoolmaster. The representative of the Ministry of Education and Research, in the Committee on Culture, felt that by 2020 the level of teaching and learning of Estonian should be such as to be everywhere in Estonian primary schools that such a transition does not cause any problem. We would like to hope for that, too, but there is no certainty about this, because, formally, this requirement applies to graduates of basic schools in Russian today, but Mr Stalnukhin spoke quite accurately about the actual situation. As far as the PGS is concerned, the legislator has been flexible and has provided the Government of the Republic with an opportunity to allow exceptions, either in schools or in individual classes, to choose the language of instruction. It is already an issue of executive power that the executive power has made use of this option only in the case of upper secondary schools for adults. This flexibility has been removed in the draft currently under discussion and, if necessary, a legislative amendment should be considered in the future. On the basis of a proposal from the Social Democratic Party, which you will find on the list of amendments No 17, we could already already establish Estonian as the language of instruction in the entire vocational education system. This would also apply to non-secondary vocational training. At the same time, there would be a provision allowing for the necessary flexibility in the law, according to which the use of other languages as a language of instruction in the school or in the acquisition of a curriculum is decided by the school manager, the school council and the board of advisers on the basis of a joint request, bearing in mind the need to ensure a high quality of learning. Thus, the school manager, i.e. the Ministry of Education and Research, decides each year specifically where, with a view to ensuring the quality of learning, with a view to both the availability of teaching staff and the preparation of students, it is necessary to allow the use of another language as a language of instruction, generally Russian. This is necessary, among other things, in Valga, where, taking into account students from Latvia, education is currently provided in English in one curriculum. Of course, the provision that education in Estonian is compulsory is maintained in the amount specified in the national or school curriculum, which guarantees the proficiency of the Estonian language required to work in the acquired field of study. According to our proposal, after 2020 those young people who, unfortunately, are unable to complete it in Estonian could still receive secondary vocational education. Otherwise, they will not be able to obtain secondary vocational education in Estonia, which will undoubtedly remember them against the Estonian state and increase further social tensions in those regions where integration has not developed at a favourable pace. However, if there is no such need, the Ministry of Education and Research would of course not make such an exception. We ask to support our proposal, which would allow the law on vocational training institutions to be adopted unanimously in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U130	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Dear colleagues, we will begin the examination of the 331 amendments to the draft. There are 41 amendments in total. The first amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party, the position of the lead committee, apart from a serious debate, is to take full account. A second amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. The third amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is to take full account. The fourth amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. The fifth amendment has been tabled by Riigikogu member Kalvi Tõud, the position of the commission is to take into account the substance. The sixth amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. The seventh amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. The eighth amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. The ninth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is to take full account. The 10th amendment has been tabled by the lead committee. Amendments 11 and 12 have been tabled by the lead committee. The 13th amendment has been tabled by the Committee on Culture; the position of the commission is to take full account of it. Amendments 14 to 16 have been tabled by the lead committee. Amendment 17 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the position of the commission is not taken into account. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U131	Thank you. I would like to ask you to vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U132	We are going to the seventh item on the agenda, which is the second reading of the Bill 375 of Amendment to the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please report to Kalle Laaneti, Deputy Chair of the Legal Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U133	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee prepared a draft law for the second reading of 375 s. a meeting of 14, 20 and 21 May and 3 June. Mariko Jõeorg, adviser to the Minister of the Interior, and Priit Heinsoo, legal adviser to the Department of Law Enforcement and Criminal Policy, also took part in the discussions. Kati Taitse-Pärkna, Head of the Department of Penal Law and Procedure of the Ministry of Justice and Einar Hillep, also participated in discussions. The Committee on Legal Affairs asked the courts and the Tax and Customs Board for opinions on the draft. The Supreme Court and the County Court of Pärnu, as well as the Tax and Customs Board, sent an opinion on the draft. Based on the discussions in the Commission and the opinions on the draft, the Committee on Legal Affairs, in cooperation with the Ministry of Internal Affairs, initiated five specific proposals for improvement. No amendments were submitted to the Riigikogu within the deadline for amendments. I will briefly talk about the amendments. The first amendment clarifies point 3 of the draft relating to the wording of the new paragraph 11 of § 31 of the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure. The proposal adds a list of three points to the text of paragraph 11 and consequently clarifies the initial wording of paragraph 11. The draft provides for the possibility of using in misdemeanour proceedings as evidence of the time, place, manner or other circumstances of misdemeanour of a photograph or video recording made in the course of public supervision. The text of Amendment 1 clearly indicates which information must be visible from the record so that it can be an independent evidence of misdemeanour. The recording must show the circumstances relating to the creation of this recording and relevant to the resolution of a misdemeanour. The recording shall clearly identify when and under what circumstances the recording has been created and shall indicate the maker of the recording and the specific infringement. In cases where the record shows evidence of misconduct, both in the urgent procedure decision and in the misdemeanour protocol, the brief description of the misdemeanour shall state that the time, place, manner and other circumstances of the misdemeanour have been photographed or recorded in public supervision. The Code of Misdemeanour Procedure provides for mandatory particulars to be indicated in the decision of the urgency procedure or in the misdemeanour protocol. In cases where the committing of a misdemeanour can be demonstrated by the recording, the time, place, manner and other acts of misconduct recorded in public supervision shall be indicated in the decision or protocol of the urgent procedure. In this way, the data recorded in the course of national supervision are imputable to a particular misdemeanour. Example: '20. On 1 May 2013, at 5.30 p.m., the measuring device measured the y speed of the x-vehicle at 100 km/h. The speed measurement procedure and the result of the measurement are video-recorded and introduced to the person subject to the procedure. ' It shall also be indicated in the list of evidence in the pleading that the evidence is a video record or a photograph. In the case of an urgent procedure decision, the record shall be indicated on the list of documents confirming the existence of a misdemeanour. The record of the record shall be entered in the part of the record for other evidence and data necessary for the resolution of the misdemeanour. This clearly links the recording to a specific procedure. If the record shows the above facts and their affiliation to a misdemeanour is clear, then, according to the perceptions adopted in the theory of criminal procedural law, there is generally no need for further formalisation. It is therefore not necessary to add a separate record or other document to the misdemeanours. The law in force provides that operations carried out in the course of national supervision are to be recorded in the minutes. For example, if speed is measured, this recording must therefore be completed as an annex to the national surveillance operation protocol. The possibility foreseen by the draft to use a record of misdemeanour as evidence in public oversight proceedings is based on the principle described above, according to which the record does not need to be accompanied by a record describing that record. Due to the principles set out in the draft, amendments must be made to § 10 of Regulation No 78 of the Government of the Republic of 16 June 2011 "Requirements for the measurement procedure of the speedometer and the speed measurement system and for the processing of the measurement results', which concerns the recording of the measurement results, and provision should be made for the possibility to waive the recording of the speed measurement. Amendment 2 clarifies the wording of § 313 of the new Code of Misdemeanour Procedure in point 4 of the draft act as a source of evidence. The regulation proposed in the proposal provides that an out-of-court officer who has directly perceived (in particular seen) the objective aspect of an offence, i.e. the external elements of the act, shall describe them in a misdemeanour protocol, in a decision of the urgency procedure or in a warning decision. In such a case, the culprit could be a source of evidence in court proceedings. He cannot be a representative of an out-of-court proceeding in court proceedings, but he can be a witness. The evidence shall consist of a statement given by an official who has committed an offence pursuant to the bill, the granting of witness status, and not a description of the misconduct committed in the decision on the urgent procedure or alert procedure. Such regulation would further reduce the time required for documentation and, at the same time, ensure that the time, place, five, objective composition, perceived official could be a source of evidence in court. In this case, it is possible to rely on, for example, the video recording of speed measurement and the perception of the processor in the urgency procedure. In cases where the decision is contested by a person, it is possible, inter alia, to rely on a recorded video recorded by the official in legal proceedings and on the testimony of the official. As a witness, participation in legal proceedings is only possible if the recording is actually available. This precludes a situation where the recording is not formalised, but the defendant is nevertheless involved as a witness in court proceedings as a source of additional evidence by the State. If an out-of-court hearing officer has described his perception in the minutes, the court may, in order to clarify this description, stress the questioning of the court hearing. Paragraph 313 (1) provides that an out-of-court officer who has seen, heard or otherwise perceived the existence of a misdemeanour must first describe them in a misdemeanour protocol, in an urgent procedure decision or in a warning decision. The description given in the above-mentioned document must be sufficiently comprehensive and set out all the relevant facts. An official of an extra-judicial tribunal should not be limited to a brief description of the event in a misdemeanour protocol, an urgent procedure decision or a warning decision, as this description is the basis for the testimony of the defendant as a witness in court or appeal proceedings. The proposed regulation allowing an out-of-court officer to witness legal proceedings is in line with the principles set out in the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The European Court of Human Rights considers that an institution with powers of justice is a body whose function is to exercise jurisdiction, namely to decide on matters falling within its competence in accordance with the rules of law and in accordance with the prescribed procedures. It must have the power to take binding decisions on the matter at issue. This body may not be part of the normal judicial system in the country, but it must have certain basic features, including independence from the executive and the parties involved, a sufficiently long term of office of its members and a judicial procedure which provides proper guarantees in specific matters. The fact that such a body has functions other than judicial functions does not necessarily mean that it is not an institution with powers of justice. The Estonian judicial system is based on the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia, in particular its Chapter 13, which regulates the judiciary, the Courts Act and the Law on the status of judges, as well as the Codes of Civil, Criminal and Administrative Procedure. The European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the practice of its application have recognised the acceptability of the various quasi-judicial institutions in the exercise of their functions of justice in substance, provided that the fundamental conditions of fair and fair justice are respected. In the context of Article 6, a number of institutions (committees) dealing with professional disciplinary actions should be considered as Quasi-judicial bodies, inter alia, in cases where those decisions restrict a person's civil rights, such as the prohibition or dismissal of an occupation. Such activities must be subject to the requirements of Article 6. § 146 of the Constitution states in particular: 'Justice is understood only by a court. The Court shall be independent in its activities and shall administer the law in accordance with the Constitution and the law. " Pursuant to § 2 (1) of the Law of the Courts, only a court shall exercise jurisdiction. No one has the right to interfere in justice. On the basis of the above, it can be argued that the function of justice in Estonia can only be performed by a court or, in certain cases, by a body which has been given the same right to settle disputes and to take decisions as the court has. Since, apart from court-like dispute committees and arbitration tribunals, disputes are not settled by a third party in the case of other out-of-court tribunals, but by him, only court-like dispute committees and arbitration tribunals must be treated as institutions with jurisdiction in Estonia. A traditional out-of-court practitioner conducting administrative, misdemeanour or criminal proceedings in an out-of-court procedure does not have a function of justice. A person who has been the subject of a misdemeanour procedure and who disagrees with the decision taken as a result of the proceedings shall be guaranteed the right to apply to the courts for the protection of his rights. The person subject to proceedings shall be guaranteed judicial independence, shall be allowed to settle the conflict by a neutral third party, that is to say a person who, after subsuming the facts and the right involved, can be entrusted with the settlement of the dispute. According to the amendments to the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure, an out-of-court officer who, for example, has directly perceived and described in a misdemeanour protocol, in an urgent procedure decision or in a warning decision, in a judicial procedure or as a decision-maker in a public surveillance operation shall not participate. Thus, it is not contrary to the principles of Article 6 of the ECHR if an out-of-court officer who has immediately perceived and described the existence of a misdemeanour in a protocol, an urgent procedure decision or a warning decision takes part in a judicial or appeal procedure in relation to the facts which he has perceived as a witness. Paragraph 313 (2) of the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure, which is included in the draft law, explicitly states that an out-of-court officer may not participate in judicial or appeal proceedings as a representative of an out-of-court practitioner. Participation as a witness in proceedings before an official of the extrajudicial court is not equivalent to the principles set out above in the European Court of Human Rights cases, and participation as a witness in judicial or appeal proceedings is in line with the principles of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The regulation on the use of an out-of-court officer as a source of evidence is also consistent with the amendment to § 66 (2) of the Code of Criminal Procedure, which entered into force on 1 September 2011, which provides that an official of the investigating authority, a public prosecutor or a judge in whose proceedings the criminal case has been, may be witnessed in judicial proceedings in the case provided for in § 289 (4) of the Code of Criminal Procedure in order to verify the reliability of the certificate. The principle that, unless otherwise provided in the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure, the provisions of criminal proceedings apply in the misdemeanour procedure, taking into account the differences in the misdemeanour procedure. The purpose of § 313 of the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure set out in this draft is to clarify the principles of certification permitted in criminal proceedings in the misdemeanour procedure and to provide for a speciality allowing the out-of-court procedure officer to be used as a source of evidence both to verify the reliability of the certificate and to establish the facts of the evidence of the misdemeanour. The caselaw so far has also accepted the questioning of the defendant as a witness in relation to the facts relating to the conduct of the proceedings which it itself has carried out. Amendment 3 clarifies the wording of § 314 "Photo, film or other recording of information as evidence' of the new Code of Misdemeanour Procedure in point 4 of the draft. The specified wording provides for the possibility of using a photograph, film or other recording of information taken by the processor as independent evidence in a misdemeanour procedure. The provision provides for a distinction from criminal proceedings. The photograph, film or other information recorded in the proceedings produced by the person performing the proceedings shall constitute evidence and shall not be regarded as evidence and shall be viewed separately from the record. This is a clarification provision, which in turn reduces the volume of additional documentation. It is important here that a photograph, film or other recording of information may be an independent evidence of misdemeanour if it complies with § 31 (11) (1) (3) of the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure. The recording must appear on the record to relate to a misdemeanour, when, under what circumstances and by whom the recording was created and the circumstances relevant to the resolution of the misdemeanour. Amendment 4 clarifies the wording of the new Code of Misdemeanour Procedure in point 4 of the draft text, § 315 "Data of the National Register'. Paragraph 315 provides that where the committing of a misdemeanour is evidenced by data from a national registry having legal significance and the request made in the register is reproducible, the search of the database shall be recorded in the record of the misdemeanour report, the urgent procedure decision or the warning decision. The date and outcome of the request must be seen. Amendment 5 clarifies the wording of subsections 11 and 12 of the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure in point 5 of the draft. In order to ensure the protection of the fundamental rights of a person, Paragraph 47 (11) clearly states that the recording of the sound and video recording of a procedural act is permitted only with the consent of the person involved in the procedural procedure, which must be given in a manner which enables reproduction. This means that the person subject to the proceedings shall examine the recording, make, where appropriate, statements concerning the conditions, progress and results of the procedural procedure and the recording of the procedural measure, which shall also be recorded in the same record, and, once all operations have been completed, the audio and video recording shall no longer be allowed to be changed. Changes to the recording can be identified by technical expertise. Therefore, it does not need to be further specified. Paragraph 11 is amended so that the text of the law makes it unambiguous that the consent of the person subject to proceedings must be given in such a way as to enable it to be reproduced. The original version of the draft also provided for the consent of the person subject to proceedings to replace the minutes of the procedural procedure with the audio and video recording, but the provision did not reveal how the consent should be given. Paragraph 12 also provides wordingual clarifications that will better open the objectives of the provision compared to what was originally included in the draft. It is stipulated that, if the person under proceedings does not agree to replace the minutes of the procedural procedure by audio and video recording, the procedure shall be recorded in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure. At its meeting on 21 May, the Committee on Legal Affairs decided to refer the draft law amending the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure to a second reading on 5 June. At its meeting on 3 June, the Commission decided that, should the second reading of the draft be completed on 5 June, it was proposed to refer the draft to third reading on 19 June and also to adopt it as a law. The draft requires a majority of 51 votes in favour and the composition of the Riigikogu to be adopted as a law. Why did I explain all this so thoroughly? Because we have recently had a very serious debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs, so that the explanatory notes should be very thorough, so that those who implement the law can understand the legislator's point after that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U134	Thank you. Good waitress, there's at least one question for you. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U135	Thank you. Good Commission waitress, first of all, thank you very much for reading this explanatory statement literally, as it is! It took about 19 minutes. Actually, it's an explanatory note on our desks. But maybe you'll open up some of the discussion we had at the committee. I ask first why this law needs to be passed, knowing that we are also in the process of amending the law on law enforcement. This cannot be done at the spring session, but there is this whole part of the misdemeanour procedure. Why are we in such a hurry here this summer?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U136	Thank you, my good colleague from the Committee on Legal Affairs. First of all, I read it because perhaps not everyone in the Chamber has read the explanatory statement. Very good, if you've read it. You didn't attend all the meetings of the Legal Affairs Committee, which is why I think it was good for you to know and hear it, too. I'll start with why this law is needed. The initiator of the law, or government, has given rise to the desire to shorten the period of proceedings, the time of written proceedings by police officers, so that police officers can deal more with state supervision measures, not paperwork. As the number of law enforcement officers is limited and always decreasing, the aim is to simplify the procedure. Simplify the procedure in the sense that, as I read out of the explanatory memorandum, very many things are actually duplicated. Why do you need to make a protocol when there's a recording? That's why little distinctions are introduced. With regard to your question about law enforcement law, the processing of the draft law amending and implementing the law on law enforcement is in full swing in the Riigikogu. Our first presentation seminar will only take place on 18 June for those members of the Committee on Legal Affairs who were not present at the previous Commission. The procedure will continue in the autumn. Summer must be one of the hardest hours a cop has ever had. If they are already able to implement this law actively now, I believe that with this small and limited resource, we will be better able to ensure order.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U137	Cameron Maruse, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U138	Thank you! Honourable waitress! Giving independent evidence to the recording is probably reasonable, economical and justified. Basically, we will probably be talking about traffic offences as a procedure for misdemeanour, and this is very important for dealing with traffic matters. But the spectrum of misdemeanours is very wide, as is the circle of national supervisory bodies dealing with misdemeanours. Are these same principles extended to other misdemeanours and institutions dealing with them, or are they restricted to the handling of traffic?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U139	Thank you for your comment and your question. If we read this bill and look at the meaning of the law, it will provide an additional opportunity to implement a monitoring measure. Point one, this is not an obligation, but an opportunity. Point two is that if the points required by the law are fulfilled in the event of any other misconduct, then there is the possibility of applying this law to other offences. However, the initiator's point was still to speed up the process and precisely in the case of traffic offences. In that sense, you are absolutely right. How this is actually going to develop for other national supervision measures is a matter of practice. Above all, it is traffic offences that are intended.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U140	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U141	Thank you. I would like to say that I have not missed a committee session, except in cases where I have had to replace someone in another committee, unlike perhaps you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U142	Then you are.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U143	But I also want to ask. The Supreme Court also assessed this bill. Maybe you'll open up a little bit of what the Supreme Court said about this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U144	Thank you. I'll find it now. I have this Supreme Court opinion here. Does the honourable questioner want me to be brief or quote? In short, the Supreme Court pointed out the questions to which the explanatory memorandum refers quite thoroughly, such as the use of the judge as a witness and how the recording as evidence will be included in the misdemeanour proceedings. With this legislative amendment, we are creating a new situation. We will change the situation by giving new opportunities for a simplified path. That's the most important thing. In fact, the Supreme Court does not say anything from anywhere that these changes are contrary to the Constitution. The Supreme Court examines them in its prism. As our legislator, we see the need to simplify the process by speeding up the procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U145	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U146	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, One practical question: if, under certain conditions, photographic and video recordings become independent evidence in the misdemeanour process, does this also mean that, for example, patrols or police officers need to receive additional training and buy additional equipment? Although we do know that technology has made photographing and video recording a so-called accessible thing.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U147	Thank you for your question. In fact, very many police cars already have technical equipment, but there is certainly a need to get more of them. If you open it up, this whole process is already going on, but there's another connection. In order for you to be able to use a recording as evidence, you need to make another record so that the video recording can be considered legally as evidence. We're just trying to get the hell out of there with this bill we're discussing.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U148	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Riigikogu speech chair Marika Tuus-Lauli, please! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U149	President of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, I will also start with the question: why is this legislative amendment being made in a hurry now and adopted during the last spring week of work? All the more so because we have a very thorough and substantial draft law on amending and implementing the law on law enforcement, which we will be discussing in the autumn. This law also includes misdemeanour proceedings, that is to say, the area that we want to change here today as a matter of urgency. The answer is probably that there is a chronic lack of money in the police, and the draft we are discussing provides an opportunity, mainly by speeding up the fine procedure for road offenders and by obtaining more money with more fines. Despite the fact that the Director-General of the Police Department, Elmar Vaher, told us at the Commission when there was a procedure for his appointment, that he did not like the police in the bush and that he wanted to change it. We know that for the last two years, the Police and Border Guard Board has been working with a budget under budget, and although the Minister of the Interior provided some EUR 5 million in extra money to raise salaries for this year, it is still a small drop in the sea. As we know, there has been a chronic lack of money for years, and the Police and Border Guard Board has continued to go on a better salary. The situation is particularly bad in law enforcement units, or police patrols. Men and women who are physically fit to work as truck drivers leave the service. The law enforcement police, the leading Tarmo Milits, have said that due to the departures, the streets will not be empty of patrols, but there are even plans to add some more, but we know that there is no money. At the same time, we are reading from today's draft, among other things, that certain authorities are reducing their staff. And all this has to be done quietly before Midsummer Day. So today's draft contains two fundamental amendments. First, a police officer is given the right to be both a misdemeanor and a witness at the same time. At present, police patrols consist of at least two people. Firstly, there is the need to ensure the safety of these police officers. Secondly, as we know, police officers have been given a very high degree of decision-making power, and there is a risk of abuse of power. In order to prevent this from happening, the law in force states that one of the patrol police officers, i.e. the person who draws up the protocol, and the other police officer, is the person who is the witness. The judge and witness must not be in one person, as this, I repeat, increases the risk of abuse of power. Also, if the same person is both a judge and a witness and has to go to court for example, then the basic job of a patrol police officer, ensuring order in a public space, is seriously affected. As we know, the trials are slowing down. If a policeman has to go to court in addition to his usual work and the procedure for a case is maybe two years later, he's very likely to be wrong, he just doesn't remember. So if we want police officers to go to court, then they'll be reduced on the street. The Supreme Court also disagrees with this amendment, saying that the judge can be the collector of evidence and their evaluator, but not the source of evidence for his future activities. And so do we. The second amendment concerns the use of photo and video recordings as an independent source of evidence. The purpose of the amendment is to replace the protocol of the procedural procedure with a photo or video recording as an additional option, so that no new document needs to be created if the infringer so requests or if it is to be created. At the same time, the Supreme Court has stated that although the use of modern technology to improve the efficiency of the procedure is commendable, it must be considered that state supervision should not become a recording of the activities of individuals, or quasi-trace activity. In addition, a person who does not agree with the decision of an out-of-court proceeding may still have recourse to the courts. Even though, according to the law in force, photographic and video recordings can be used as evidence in court, the courts still require a record of procedural proceedings stating how the recording is related to the offence and what other objective events that are not reflected in the recording but which are, however, absolutely necessary for a fair outcome to be known. The legislative amendment, as has already been said, creates the possibility of making photographic and video recordings and losing records, but already right now lawyers are saying that the laws have a wide range of interpretation standards, and now this is getting even more confusing. If there is at least movement and sound to interpret a video recording, then for example, in the case of a photo, there is nothing, everything is missing. Therefore, if we remove the protocol obligation, it will not be possible to get a full overview of the event and its aggravating and mitigating circumstances. These are the two points that are then intended to reduce the number of police officers, after all, now only one of them can be involved in the proceedings and thus reduce the negative budget of the Police and Border Guard Board. The Centre Party Group, of course, does not agree with this draft. All the more so as, as has already been said, this issue is also covered by the draft law amending and implementing the law on law enforcement, which is a very thorough and large law. So these things could be handled together. Our bill is not in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U150	Thank you. Speaking in a position. Marko Pomerants, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U151	Thanks! As Chairman of the Commission and representative of the IRL, I also have a few keywords. Good Marika! I would be very pleased if your superiors could keep you on the priority issues of misdemeanour and you would not have to replace other people anywhere. You have a big group, after all. I congratulate Mrs Laanet, because there has been a great debate on how the thinking of the Commission's discussions would reach broad masses. I think Kalle did his best on this today. Indeed, there is an explanatory memorandum that is public, but people use different sources, a verbatim is one possible source. As for the previous speech, you see, people have the constitutional right not to exceed the limit speed, even the duty to be law-abiding. So there's always a way not to get caught up in cops at all. That's one. Secondly, if the police had a lot of money, would it be reasonable to spend it simply to write a long protocol or could it be used for substantive monitoring? Thirdly, even now, a police officer may be dealing with a specific misdemeanor, without the need for any brigade. Fourthly, when we talk about the idea of this draft, one of the aims is to reduce litigation, because things should be obvious in most cases. And another aspect: the defendant's representative in the trial and the police officer as a witness are different persons. Finally, if a person wishes and says he doesn't care about the urgent procedure, then the policeman is, of course, ready to record everything long and comprehensively on the road there, and it will be possible to continue the journey within an hour. Thanks!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U152	Thank you. Speaking chair of the Riigikogu Kalle Laaneti, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U153	I will now come here without an explanatory statement and explain the rural languages and quickly what the real purpose of this bill is. The real aim is that if a person has committed, knowingly or unintentionally, an offence, in particular a traffic code and a law enforcement officer, he or she has been detained by a police officer, the offence should be formalised as soon as possible. The aim is to shorten this time as much as possible, the official does not take advantage of the possibility of doing this slowly, lengthyly, while respecting the fundamental right of the person, the desire to leave this situation as soon as possible and to continue on his way. In my opinion, this is one of the many times that we have tried to simplify certain procedures in recent years, I am talking about the rules of procedure. This is theoretically still theoretically, but I hope that, once this bill is passed as a law, tens of thousands of hours of work available to the police organisation. Because when we talk about the fundamental rights and freedoms of a potential offender, it is always possible to appeal the decision, regardless of the procedure involved. The third thing I want to emphasise is that the police officer and the perpetrator, too, have the opportunity, not the obligation, to go through this simplified and quicker procedure. Legally, it can certainly be discussed whether an extra-judicial judge can be a witness in court. I have just read this part of the explanatory memorandum in a very long and thorough manner to emphasise that the European Court of Human Rights finds, and also in our Committee on Legal Affairs, I believe unanimously that it is actually very different procedures. If we look at the procedure for national supervision, which is going to be a misdemeanour procedure, and then we take more criminal proceedings, i.e. we go to the heavier side of a lighter procedure, they need to apply different principles. I think this is absolutely right. I would like to emphasise once again that I believe that this draft has been dealt with in a very optimal way, that all parties have been heard and that very thorough discussions have been held in the Committee on Legal Affairs. I do not think there is any reason to say that this is a matter of haste. There is even less reason to talk about the relationship with the law on the amendment and implementation of the law on law enforcement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U154	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. We will begin the examination of the 375 amendments to the draft. Five amendments to the draft have been received, all from the lead committee. The first, second, third, fourth and fifth amendments. The amendments have been examined. The position of the commission is to conclude the second reading. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U155	We will move on to the eighth item, which is the first reading of the draft Act amending the Employment Services and Benefits Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act, initiated by the Social Affairs Committee. I ask Reet Roos, member of the Social Affairs Committee, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U156	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft law amending the Employment Services and Benefits Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act 427 on Monday, i.e. a on May 20th. Members and advisers of the Social Affairs Committee took part in the debate and Mrs Bõie Jõgiste, who is an advisor to the Labour Market Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, was invited. The draft 427 complements the conditions for continuing the unemployment benefit and unemployment benefit with a view to changing the concept of military service. I'll tell you a little bit more. Under the legislation in force until 31 March of this year, the public service also included time, replacement and reserve services. From s. a According to the Defence Forces Service Act, which entered into force on 1 April, time, substitute and reserve services are no longer a special type of public service. Therefore, the right to continue to pay unemployment benefit or unemployment benefit to an unemployed person who has been in a time, substitute or reserve service is no longer valid. However, the amendment should not affect the rights of the unemployed, which is why this draft ensures that the unemployed person who has been in a time, substitute or reserve service is entitled to unemployment benefit or unemployment benefit equal to that in force before 1 April 2013. In the Commission, Mrs Blossom Rivers came to account for the problem. The Commission was asked how many applications for this draft are currently pending at the unemployment fund. The answer was that, fortunately, there is no queue for such applications at the unemployment fund, but the management of the unemployment fund has been seriously discussing this issue. If applications come, the unemployment fund has two behavioural options, as has now been decided. The central office of the Unemployment Insurance Fund has instructed the sub-offices that all applications will be accepted, that proceedings will be opened and that this draft law will enter into force. The second option is that once the unemployed person's account is terminated, this termination will be cancelled and the unemployed person's benefit will be paid under the clause 'due to good reason', which is also possible. However, the unemployment fund, the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Social Affairs Committee are convinced that this bill should be dealt with quickly and at a speedy pace. In this context, the Committee on Social Affairs decided to put the draft on the agenda yesterday, 4 June, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 14 p.m. on 10 June 2013. All three decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U157	Thank you, good waitress. You have at least one question. Andres Jalak, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U158	Thank you. A good colleague, maybe I missed my ears, but I didn't hear what the Government of the Republic thought about this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U159	The Government of the Republic was entirely in agreement with this draft initiated by the Social Affairs Committee. I also have a letter from Minister Taavi Rõivas about this.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U160	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I shall set the deadline for the submission of draft 427 amendments. th June 10th at 14 p.m. The first reading is closed and the eighth item is dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U161	Let's move on to item nine. The first reading of the draft law amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Group of the Social Democratic Party begins. I ask Rannar Vassilyev, member of the Riigikogu, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U162	Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Democrats have submitted a draft, which we believe is extremely important. The main problem we are trying to alleviate with this bill is that Estonia currently has a low and middle income income tax burden, but in fact the total tax burden is quite high. In the case of income tax, one reason is that we have uniform income tax, in other words, our income tax does not progress, and the other is that we have a relatively low tax-free rate. That is the second reason why our draft has prompted us to do so. Looking at labour taxes more broadly, the situation becomes even more difficult, especially for people on low incomes, because we have a relatively high social tax, which is known to lack a progressive element. In the case of income tax, if the tax-free rate progresses to some extent, although it does so to an extremely small extent, the social tax unfortunately does not have this element at all. Consequently, it can be said that in Estonia, people with medium and low wages are highly taxed on labour taxes, split between the employer and the employee. This is the problem that the draft tabled by the Social Democratic Party wishes to address. The draft provides that it could be agreed for three years that the tax-free rate will rise by EUR 192 per year and reach EUR 2304 by 2016. As far as the source of cover is concerned, at the spring session, we have already tabled a basically similar draft procedure. At that time, we had been provided as a source of cover that the decision that the income tax rate would decrease by 1% in 2015 should be repealed. This ideologically did not please the current coalition partners. Because the Social Democrats are constructive and still consider the problem to be serious, we have decided to abandon this source of cover. This opportunity was offered by the Ministry of Finance's new spring economic forecast for 2014, compared to the previous economic forecast made in the summer and on the basis of which the current budgetary strategy was put in place, totalling EUR 47 million in additional tax revenues. If you deduct from this EUR 47 million tax revenue that has already been written in the back of the item, i.e. social tax and excise duties on alcohol and tobacco to the Cultural Endowment of Estonia, then there will be 31,7 million euros. If the tax-free rate is increased by EUR 192, the country's estimated so-called price is about EUR 25 million. Consequently, the additional tax revenue to be collected according to the new forecast should cover the part of the tax not collected from income tax. In other words, there are financial possibilities for enforcing the draft as a law, provided that the economic forecast of the Ministry of Finance is valid. From 2015 onwards, the same forecast for a nominal increase in GDP of 6.6%, reflected in tax revenues. Perhaps if the tax-free rate continues to rise on the basis of this draft, then there will also be a source of cover for this in the coming years. That concludes my brief introduction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U163	Thank you, good waitress. You have at least one question. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U164	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You have EUR 25 million for the bill mentioned in the explanatory memorandum, and that is the same amount you have mentioned now. However, I read from the opinion of the Ministry of Finance that the cost of this draft will be 28 million next year, 60 million in 2015 and 95 million in 2016. They're still several times the amount you're offering. As far as I know, you've put a misleading bill in your 'cost bill' before. How does it come that you usually show the cost of your draft cost as lower than the experts' calculations? However, you have the opportunity to consult with the Ministry of Finance in advance to ensure that the calculations are correct.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U165	Thank you. As for this claim that we have been wrong in advance, I would be happy to listen to some examples to comment on it. As far as this bill is concerned, I suggest you read the explanatory statement a little bit further. We are not talking about several times the amount, but 25 million euros must be compared to 28 million euros. Of course, the amount depends directly on the employment rate in 2014. There is no doubt that the Social Democratic Party does not have the Delfi oracle where it can be predicted very precisely, but we have taken these EUR 25 million from the Ministry of Finance's own forecast. Yes, indeed, this was true of the drafts submitted in 2011, while the Ministry of Finance itself acknowledges that this difference is quite small. Whether EUR 25 or EUR 28 million, there is no big difference in percentage. As far as the other figures are concerned, the explanatory memorandum states that an increase in the tax-free rate of EUR 192 will cost EUR 25 million per year. If you make an approximate calculation, you will know how much it could cost in the coming years if the tax-free rate rises by EUR 192 each year until 2016. So these amounts certainly do not differ several times, but we can discuss whether it is true that the EUR 28 million now issued by the Ministry of Finance or EUR 25 million previously issued. A debate on this would be appropriate. As far as the difference is concerned, there is rather an understanding of the text of the explanatory memorandum.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U166	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U167	As far as this cost is concerned, if we look at the estimates for 2015 and 2016, we will see that the difference is multiple. 25 million are several times different from 60 million and the gap with 95 million is even greater. But I have another question. In your preface you said that Estonia lacks progressive income tax. When will you submit a draft on the basis of which you can get an idea of your fiscal policy objectives?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U168	The Social Democrats have never concealed their desire to make the current tax system fairer, as we see it. We have constantly provided an idea of this through the media, and it is undoubtedly possible to obtain this information from there. If anyone has a desire to have a closer look at our thoughts, you can, for example, turn to the members of our political party in the Committee on Monetary Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U169	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U170	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As regards the first reading, I will give an overview of the draft law amending the Income Tax Act, which bears number 422 and has been initiated by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. The meeting of the Monetary Commission took place in s. On 20 May 2010, Rannar Vassilyev, the initiator's representative, presented a draft. At the time of the discussion, the government's view was that it was not considered appropriate to support the draft, but the written position had not yet been received from the Ministry of Finance. The government had specifically instructed the Minister for Finance to forward the opinion to the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Elo Madiste, chief specialist of the tax policy department of the Ministry of Finance, was present on the Commission. The question was raised as to whether the government's position should have been received during the Commission's debate. There is no clear obligation in the Rules of Procedure to do so. However, during the discussion, the initiators requested the written position of the Government or the presence of the Minister at the meeting of the Commission. The Commission agreed to further discuss the draft after obtaining the Government's position from the Minister for Finance. The Government's opinion in writing was received essentially one hour after the end of the Commission meeting. I shall briefly quote the Government's opinion: 'In principle, we agree that an increase in tax-free income is necessary in the long term, but this requires a thorough analysis of the revenue and expenditure of the state budget and a more long-term forecast. The increase in the tax-free income proposed in the draft reduces the revenue of the state budget from 28 million euros in 2014, 60 million euros in 2015 and 95 million euros in 2016. The draft provides for a budget reduction of EUR 47 million from additional tax revenue expected to be received in 2014. We believe that it is not possible to plan such a significant change on account of the expected receipts alone. We have looked at the possibilities of raising tax-free income when drawing up a budget strategy to consider the impact and opportunities of the change more closely and only then decide when and to what extent it will be possible to increase the tax-free income. ' An additional Commission meeting took place the following day, 21 May. There was no substantive debate. No further questions were raised on the draft and the Government's opinion. The Commission's proposal was consensual: to conclude the first reading of the draft. The deadline for the submission of amendments was not proposed by the Commission and therefore the deadline for the submission of amendments under the Rules of Procedure is 10 working days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U171	Good waitress, thank you! You have at least one question. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U172	Thank you. I understand that you personally support this proposal so that next year the tax-free minimum could be increased and its coverage could be the additional revenue from economic growth into the state budget. If Estonia's economic growth will remain at 1% this year, how much will it cover the increase in the tax-free minimum?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U173	Thank you. I will answer the first part of the question. I personally support this view that we should raise the tax-free minimum as soon as possible, if possible, if our economic growth and tax receipts allow, already in 2014. How much growth of 1%, for example, would it be possible to increase it? Growth was 1% in the first quarter. I owe you an answer on how much, for example, in a particular case, would increase the tax-free minimum, because that would require some calculation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U174	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U175	When you presented the Commission's report, you said that in the longer term, an increase in the tax-free minimum is necessary. At the same time, your party chairman has said that the tax-free minimum could be increased if economic growth is to be expected. What is the expected economic growth that will allow the tax-free minimum to be raised next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U176	Once again, I stress that it is necessary to look at all the activities in a complex way in order to make tax policy decisions. Measures that reduce our tax revenues, as well as measures that can increase our tax revenues, are, in fact, a result of a complex approach. If we are going to look at the general tax policy, we cannot only talk about raising the tax-free minimum, we must talk about raising pensions, and also about raising wages in the public sector. All of this is based on some types of revenue, which, in turn, will result in some additional possible investments or types of costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U177	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No wish, no negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 422 amendments. 19 June at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the ninth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U178	Let's move on to the tenth item on the agenda. The first reading of the draft law amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group begins. I ask Kadri Simson, Member of the Riigikogu, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U179	Ladies and gentlemen, I will present to you the draft law amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Central Party Group. As we all know in this Chamber, the Income Tax Act is probably the law most frequently amended in Estonia; in this century alone, it has been amended more than 30 times. These amendments have mainly concerned the addition or elimination of different tax incentives. The draft law concerns an increase in the tax-free minimum rate. This was last done five years ago, 1 January 2008, when the tax-free minimum was raised to EUR 1728. In the next five years, no tax-free minimum has been raised. Let us recall what preceded 2008 when the tax-free minimum was raised to EUR 1728. In the five years preceding, the tax-free minimum was increased annually, with a total of almost EUR 1000 in five years. In 2003, the tax-free minimum was 767 euros per year when we recalculate Estonian kroons into euros. What is the importance of a tax-free minimum? In short, it can be said that all employees will benefit from the tax-free minimum, and many pensioners who work will benefit from it. The aim of the draft is to raise the tax-free minimum to EUR 2400 per year in 2015. This step will significantly improve the situation of low-income workers, as the impact of the current tax-free minimum of EUR 1728 has been reduced as a result of the price increases in recent years. The draft provides for an increase in the tax-free minimum in two parts: 15% already from 1 January next year, to EUR 1980 per year and a second step to EUR 2400 per year in 2015. Raising the tax-free minimum is a clear starting point for increasing the progressiveness of the tax system, as it reduces the effective tax rate for low-income workers more. The increase in the income tax-free minimum was recommended by the IMF to Estonia in 2009 or four years ago and by the OECD in 2012. The Centre Party has changed its initiative. We want to raise the tax-free minimum from next year. This was covered by the government's claim on economic growth. In particular, the Chairman of the IRL, a government department, has said that raising the tax-free minimum must be a priority and, if growth and tax receipts are to be expected, this should be done as from next year. During the debate on the previous item, I asked the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs what economic growth should be like, so that it could be expected and raise the tax-free minimum. At the moment, it seems that 2013 growth is not so good that the government will be such an initiative. Rather, it is now said that lifting is necessary in the longer term. Urmas Reinsalu confirmed that if the income tax-free minimum increases from next year, this must also be taken into account in the preparation of the country's budget strategy in spring. However, this has not been done. Several analysts have compared an increase in the tax-free minimum and a reduction in the tax rate. For example, andres Võrk, an analyst at the Praxis Centre for Policy Studies, has divided Estonian wage earners into ten decibels, all of which have equal numbers of people. He has made it clear that a 1% reduction in the income tax rate would reduce tax revenue as much as an increase in the tax-free income that we have proposed in 2015. The winners would be different in these cases. A 1% reduction in the income tax rate will benefit the poorer half of society by only 14% and the richer half by 86%, and the richest tenth of it will gain 33% of the tax gain. A different picture is presented when the tax-free rate is raised. Then the poorer half of society would win 33%. (I would remind you that if the tax rate were to be reduced, they would only win 14%.) The wealthiest part of society would still win 67%, but the richest part would not get 33% but 14% of tax winnings. So if the state has money to meet only one tax promise, it would be fairer to give up the 1% tax reduction by 2015. By the way, it is supported by a large number of people. At least this was confirmed by the viewer survey of one of the last "Forum" tax issues. Instead, this money could be spent on raising the income tax-free minimum for all in 2015. We have often spoken in this Chamber that any draft law should be dealt with in the key that this law will affect more precisely. If the draft legislation is handled without thinking about who it affects, it is said that it is a solitary approach. If we raise the income tax-free minimum, women in particular will benefit from it because, according to Statistics Estonia, there are more women among those who receive lower wages, while there are more men among those on higher wages. However, broadly speaking, all people with a salary of less than 900 euros per month will benefit from our proposal. The source of the cover would be economic growth in 2014 and the amendment of the Income Tax Act in 2015, the abandonment of a reduction in income tax from 21% to 20% and, instead, an increase in the tax-free minimum for all people to EUR 2400 per year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U180	Thank you. Good waitress, one question for you. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U181	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I read the analysis carried out by the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, which shows that Finland will reduce the corporate tax rate by 4.5 percentage points. We will reduce income tax by 1% and not until 2015, but you will want to change it. Sweden also, as far as I know, strongly reduces income tax. We don't live on a desert island, we have to watch what neighbouring countries do. I am not talking about Latvia here; Latvia has also reduced the income tax on dividends. Are our neighbouring countries on a totally wrong path, and you know that this should be done differently?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U182	Thank you for your question. No, I don't think our neighbouring countries are on the wrong track. If we look at where the people of Estonia are going and last year they left a rare number of them, we can see that they are leaving mostly to countries with progressive income tax. So proportionality in the taxation of employees is certainly an important issue in Estonia as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U183	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I now ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U184	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will give you an overview of the draft law amending the Income Tax Act, which bears the number 410. This has been initiated by the Estonian Central Party faction. A Commission meeting was held in s. 20th May, when Kadri Simson, the initiator of the draft, introduced the draft. A similar draft was withdrawn by the Centre Party Group some time ago and has now made some clarifications. Elo Madiste, chief specialist of the Tax Policy Department, was present as the representative of the Ministry of Finance, who presented the government's position. A letter from the Minister of Finance had also arrived on this point. I quote briefly this view: 'The Government of the Republic does not consider it possible to support the draft. Although an increase in tax-free income is necessary in the longer term, it requires a thorough analysis of the revenue and expenditure of the state budget and a more long-term forecast. The increase in the tax-free income proposed in the draft reduces the revenue of the state budget by 35 million euros from 2014 and by 97 million euros from 2015. As a source of cover, the draft proposal proposes opting out of the reduction in the income tax rate. (In addition to economic growth. (S. S.) At the same time, the reduction of the tax rate in the Act has already entered into force and its abolition would not be in line with the principle of legal certainty. Both raising tax-free income and lowering the tax rate are both tax policy objectives, one of which should not be outweighed by abandoning another equally important objective. We have looked at the possibilities of increasing tax-free income to analyse the impact of this change in more detail and then decide when and to what extent an increase in tax-free income is possible. ' A representative of the Ministry added that the need to increase the tax-free minimum is accepted, but the sources of cover are still being considered and the extent to which an increase is possible is explained. The representative of the initiator of the draft act expressed an interest in the Commission as to whether the decision would be taken after the summer economic forecast had been completed. A representative of the Ministry said in the Commission that the analysis will be carried out and the summer economic forecast will certainly provide a clearer understanding of the situation and opportunities for next year. In the Commission, the initiator was asked about the differences compared to the recently withdrawn analogous draft. According to the initiator's representative, the differences in relation to the earlier draft consist in an additional increase in tax-free income and an earlier introduction to the entry into force of the Act. The question was also raised of shifting corporate profits to countries with lower tax rates (e.g. where dividends are paid in Latvia, where the tax rate is 15%) due to the high rate of income tax, which deprives Estonia of tax revenues. The representative of the Ministry stated that moving the profits of companies to countries with a more favourable tax rate is a problem, even for countries with even lower tax rates than the one mentioned. There was no major substantive debate. The Commission adopted decisions, part of them by consensus. Sven Sester (which was a consensual decision) was appointed as rapporteur and decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda. a on 4 June 2004 (this was also a consensual decision) and to propose that the draft be rejected (with 6 Commission members in favour, 4 against and no abstentions). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U185	Thank you. Good waitress, you have questions. Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U186	Thank you. Dear Commission waitress, You have read out the reasons why you cannot give up a reduction in income tax from 21% to 20% on 1 January 2015. You argued that this would not be in line with the principle of legal certainty. Figure 1 on page 2 of our draft has shown that the law has repeatedly stated that tax reductions have been waived. For example, in 2005 the pace was changed. Last time it happened in 2011, you were also voting in favour of it. In the meantime, what has happened to legal certainty? You have been able to vote twice for this amendment. What happened?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U187	Thank you. Nothing has happened in this context. I read the opinion of the Government of the Republic. In previous discussions in the Committee on Monetary Affairs of the Riigikogu, and especially in the debate that took place on the draft that you have withdrawn, but also in the debate on the similar draft of the social democrats in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu, where the proposal to abolish the reduction of income tax from 21% to 20% in 2015 turned out to be very clear political decisions. The Government Coalition believes that the decision taken earlier should enter into force on 1 January 2015. The Coalition sees no need or reason to revoke this decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U188	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U189	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. After an increase in pension in April this year, your coalition partner and fresh Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas, spoke about the urgent need to discuss the issue and take decisions on the increase in the tax-free minimum so that the elderly, whose pension has risen, will actually receive this pension increase. At present, a large number of pensions pay income tax. There was a lot of talk about it in the media. When does the coalition really plan to come here with a bill that raises the tax-free minimum and improves the well-being of the elderly and the low earners?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U190	Thank you. I can talk here about what has been said in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. As you have heard from my speech, there was no longer and deeper debate on this in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, although a representative of the Ministry of Finance was also present. I have already mentioned that when asked if a summer economic forecast was expected, yes, an economic forecast is expected, which will give a final clarity as to where our economy is going next year. I think that we are already analysing the possibilities in the Republic of Estonia for not only raising the tax-free minimum next year, but also making other tax policy decisions, why not also about public sector wages.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U191	Mailis Reps, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U192	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Commission waitress, You certainly also discussed in the Commission that, if the summer forecast is expected, raising the tax-free minimum could be put at risk because there are other priorities that have been postponed by the coalition. He has failed to fulfil his promises of making cuts in his own time. Can you give an overview of which level of priority is the decision to raise the income tax-free minimum compared to other needs?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U193	Thank you. I'm not a member of the Government of the Republic. We did not discuss this with the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I'm afraid I owe you an answer. This should be asked by members of the government, they should be asked for the results of the study discussions and possible priorities. There was no debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and we do not have such competence either.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U194	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. The position of the commission is that draft 410 should be rejected at first reading. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on this proposal. Dear colleagues, I would like to put to the vote the draft proposal of the lead committee 410 to be rejected at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There were 41 members of the Riigikogu in favour, with 28 abstentions. The draft law amending the Income Tax Act, initiated by the Estonian Central Party Group, has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure. The 10th item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U195	Let's move on to item 11. The first reading of the draft law amending the Product Compliance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U196	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The government will present you with a draft law amending the Product Compliance Act, the main content of which is as follows. The draft amends the requirements for reference to standards in the legislation and specifies the organisation of standardisation. In the legislation on reference to standards, the Chancellor of Justice has found a contradiction with the Constitution and has proposed to bring the regulation into line with the Constitution. The reason for the initiation of this draft reflects the observations of the Chancellor of Justice and the discussion that took place on this issue in the Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu in September 2012. Under the regulation of the draft law, the provision of a mandatory reference is permitted in the event of compliance with obligations under international law or European Union law, provided that this is the only way to comply with the legal requirements. The draft amends the standardisation arrangements. According to the current law, the standardisation committee will draw up a standardisation programme for the following year at the end of the year. This is not a flexible solution, because not all needs can be foreseen for the whole year. The draft law abolishes these formalities, allowing proposals for standardisation work to be made to the Estonian Standard Centre or Ministry of Economic Affairs on an ongoing basis. The Chancellor of Justice found that there was a certain contradiction in the law in force with the rule of law on legal clarity and legality and that the law in force could constitute a disproportionate restriction on the right to freedom of business and free self-realisation. The possible contradiction of the Product Conformity Act with the Constitution lies in the fact that the rules on reference to standards laid down therein are not unambiguous in the legislation on making the standard mandatory. Where a legal instrument contains a mandatory reference to a standard, the standard shall be subject to the monitoring of the standard, with limited access to the standard by virtue of copyright protection, and the standard shall be remunerated. According to the Constitution, only legal provisions which are available to everyone free of charge and which have been adopted by a competent body in the course of a legal procedure can be mandatory. The standard, however, is a document which is protected by copyright and is generally adopted by a private organisation. At the same time, it should be taken into account that a mandatory reference to a standard may be required by international law, for example, mandatory references to standards have been made by European Union directives or regulations. A mandatory reference to the standard cannot be totally excluded, especially given that European Union law prevails. Now some fact about organising standardisation in Estonia. Each year, Estonia finances the organisation of standardisation and the translation of standards with about half a million euros. Every year 120-150 new standards are drawn up or translated into Estonian. In total, there are 24462 standards valid in Estonia, 1356 of which are in Estonian. Most of the standards in force in Estonia - 23877 - have been transposed into European standards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U197	Thank you, Minister. There's a question for you. Jaan Apple Tree, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U198	Thank you, good manager. Good minister! We discussed this draft several times in the Committee on Economic Affairs. As your people have said, there are dozens of legislative changes that require similar regulation associated with this bill. This is probably also the reason why we set the deadline for tabling amendments in September. Can you say that during the summer between, the Ministry of Economic Affairs is able to come out of its administration with package laws?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U199	Thank you for that question. We will certainly analyse these draft laws, which are directly the responsibility of the Minister for Economic Affairs, given the constructive debate that took place in the Committee on Economic Affairs. We also gave some examples during the debate where a simple textual reorganisation based on this general principle, which should take into account the Chancellor of Justice's possible plea of constitutional illegality, is not possible. However, some laws are likely to be adapted to the formal amendment. I believe that if we come back here at second reading, I will be able to answer the question of what improvements the initiator might propose.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U200	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Deputy Chair of the Economic Commission, Jaan Õunapuu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U201	Good manager! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! This draft was discussed by the Committee on Economic Affairs in two of its meetings. The first time was May 13th. Minister Juhan Parts and Chief Specialist Piret Schasmin of the Quality Infrastructure Department of the Internal Market Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications were invited to the meeting. As the Minister presented the content of the draft quite thoroughly, I now mark some of the issues raised in the Commission. There was an interest in the impact of this draft on economic operators. The originators' response was that it would rather make life easier for entrepreneurs. The most fundamental dispute took place over the promises made by the Ministry of Economic Affairs in the second half of last year. I would like to remind you once again that the Chancellor of Justice presented his views in the summer of 2012. This topic was discussed in Riigikogu plenary on 19 September last year, when the chairman of the Economic Affairs Committee pointed out the need to amend other relevant laws in relation to this draft. The representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications at the meeting of the Commission have also indicated that the Ministry is drawing up a legal audit, including the search for laws referring to the Product Compliance Act, and that they are organised as a single package. We wondered why this single package had not been brought to our table at the time. Since the Members of the Commission considered the issue a little more unclear on 13 May, we decided to continue the debate in a week's time, 20 May. This decision was made by consensus by those present. On 20 May, we discussed this issue again. Mr Parts and Mrs Schasmin were again present, along with Mr Ago Pelisar, Adviser to the Quality Infrastructure Department of the Internal Market Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. We gave an overview of what we were talking about on May 13. Since the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications had itself initiated the idea of a package proposal, but by 20 May this package did not exist, we took note of the position of the initiators that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications would respect the position of the Chancellor of Justice, try to make all necessary improvements and limit the legislator's power to make references to the standard. The outcome of the discussion was that, after completion of the first reading of the draft, the deadline for the submission of amendments would be set for September of the year in order to allow the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications to prepare the amendments to the draft law. I have just asked the Minister about this and received an exhaustive reply. I will now read the decisions of the Economic Commission: to put the draft on the plenary agenda on 5 June, today, to propose that the first reading be stopped and to set the deadline for tabling amendments at 17:00 on 12 September 2013. All three decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U202	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 403 amendments. 9 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 11th item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U203	Let's move on to item 12. First reading of the draft law on public transport initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U204	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government will present the full text of the draft Public Transport Act. First of all, I will explain why we are presenting the whole text. Because good legislative practice requires that, if many changes have been made, a new full text must be presented. Indeed, the Public Transport Act, which entered into force on 1 October 2000, has been amended almost twenty times in 13 years. So we are presenting the full text of the draft Public Transport Act, which does not mean that there is something radically new in the draft compared to the current public transport arrangements. However, there are certain changes that I will now briefly introduce to you. What are we going to apply for with this bill? Firstly, the draft allows greater competition in bus and coach transport, while ensuring the quality of the transport service. Under the current rules, a carrier already authorised to operate a route on a given route can serve that route for as long as it wishes, with the possibility for other carriers to compete with it relatively small. According to the draft, the situation will improve as new carriers will be able to compete with them by offering equivalent or better transport conditions than existing carriers. Another important change concerns the desire to improve the quality of taxi services by regulating this. To this end, there is a requirement for a taxi driver to have a service card. This requires the taxi driver to comply with certain conditions, for example, he must not be punished for the offence and must speak enough Estonian. The regulation on the rights and obligations of the parties to the contract of carriage, the carrier and the passenger, has also been amended. Since the rules on the contract of carriage, as one of the types of contract, are laid down in the relevant chapter of the Law of Obligations Act, as well as the general provisions of the Law of Obligations Act apply to the contract of carriage, the Public Transport Act only regulates what is deemed necessary to provide or specify otherwise than the Law of Obligations Act. The draft also provides for the possibility for the municipality to impose price caps on the provision of taxi services under certain conditions. This has been one of the most controversial provisions. However, as the initiator of the draft, we found that this problem exists, there are very many consumers who can be deceived, and it also undermines the image of taxi services. Several municipalities and associations of tourism companies have requested this possibility. We have brought this proposal before you to consider and decide whether such intervention in the free market economy is reasonable and justified. Thirdly, the draft clarifies the basis for setting the ticket price in public transport and granting the concession. The gap in the current law has been filled in by the fact that there is no clear mandate to set the price of vehicle transport in ferry traffic between the mainland and the islands. It has also made more precise the basis for allowing public transport operators to make travel concessions. It has also been sought to define that discrimination should be avoided when granting travel incentives, and that there should not be a contradiction with constitutional principles when granting incentives to different groups and target groups. Fourthly, the regulation on public service obligations is amended in such a way as to comply with Union law. For example, public service obligations are not included in the current law as in the relevant EU regulation. Fifthly, the rules on the rights and obligations of passengers and drivers in road traffic are regulated, taking into account, inter alia, the rights of passengers travelling by bus and coach under European Union law. In addition to the five major themes listed, the draft contains a number of detailed clarifications, which have largely resulted from real practice. We have offered that the bill could enter into force as a law if the procedure of the Riigikogu reached this distance from 1 January next year. There should then be sufficient time for companies and all those affected by the draft to be able to prepare and restructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U205	Minister, there are questions for you. Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U206	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Paragraph 35 (2) of the draft law provides that, in the case of a regular service carried out under a public service contract, the carriage of a passenger car and its trailer is to benefit from up to 50% of the transport price. Until now, vans, trucks, buses, and even motorcycles also enjoyed the benefit. Shouldn't the word 'car' be'vehicle' instead of 'car', or is that wording intentional?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U207	Thank you. I'm afraid I don't have the draft text on me, it's so voluminous. I have an explanatory statement with me. But maybe we can work it out. The broader question is that we have had a wide range of decisions on the organisation of public transport with the islands. There has been a legitimate need to take into account that people living on any island are treated equally with others in view of their costs of leaving the island and getting there, but there have been legal doubts as to whether, for example, the advantages imposed by the Minister of Economic Affairs Regulation are proportionate and in accordance with the principles of the law. The purpose of this amendment is to establish a legal basis, not to restrict in principle the existing advantages. I think we need to clarify whether a "vehicle" should be instead of a "car," because I see that the second half of the sentence is talking about the vehicle again.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U208	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U209	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. It is known that the Road Administration has been preparing itself for the development of regional public transport centres, where the regional transport arrangements should shift. There are not many traces of this in the bill now. The draft still places responsibility for regional public transport on the county administration and says that the regional public transport centre could be a company or a non-profit organisation operating under an administrative contract if the state and municipalities so decided. Is it a fundamental change that regional centres will not actually come?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U210	The short answer is that we did not reach a broad consensus with all parties in order to eliminate county-based public transport planning and organisation. This issue will continue to be topical. I wouldn't dramatize it. We very much hope that the country-wide responsibility for organising public transport, as foreseen by this draft, will be concentrated more in the Road Administration. Its functions are clearer, it is better to guide certain levers and motivate the county to cooperate. This is certainly organizational progress. Local authorities have serious objections to the abolition of county-based arrangements. There are counties where cooperation between municipalities and county government is quite reasonable, at least better than where this cooperation has not been possible in the form of a public transport centre. There is a need to address this issue in order to find a sensible solution. I have not wanted what happens at times in real life, that decisions should be made in Tallinn to organise public transport even between two points within the county. It would be irrational if the bus travelling between Kuressaare and Kihelkonna in Saaremaa should be arranged in Tallinn or in another centre. There is a need to figure out and discuss how reasonable transport arrangements can be made so that we look at a larger region, but do not lose substantial cooperation at grassroots level.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U211	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U212	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, My question is about § 49 (4). The bill states: '... the line for which a line authorisation or timetable approval is requested disturbs a regular service which is already or is planned to be operated under a public service contract... ' My question is about the expression that disrupts the regular service. If this bill comes into force as a law, how will it work? Where will it be decided whether one or the other new line will interfere with the regular service? Who, what authority will decide this? How is it regulated?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U213	The former organisational form will actually remain in force here. The authorisations shall be issued by the Commission, with the participation of representatives of market participants. The Road Administration is the main organising authority, but decisions on line permits are actually taken by the Line License Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U214	Jaan Apple Tree, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U215	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I'm asking about the right to travel free of charge on domestic regular services. This section has been drawn to attention by the Estonian Association of People with reduced mobility and the Association of Car Businesses, doing so, indeed, from a different point of view. One of them would like to expand the range of beneficiaries and the other raises questions about compensation for granting the benefit. I read from the opinion of the Ministry of Economic Affairs that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is in principle of the opinion that the Public Transport Act should not extend the circle of people with the right to free travel. Can you tell me how to solve this problem? Perhaps car companies should also be compensated for this advantage from the state budget to some extent.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U216	Good question. It would be good for car companies to agree to grant this benefit at their own expense for certain specific categories. It goes with this business. At the same time, it is clear that this is an additional cost for car companies. But if there is no other solution, then public authority must somehow meet here. We have not considered this reasonable at the moment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U217	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U218	Thank you. Dear Minister, You have given me the impression that you are a sympathetic person who respects a free market economy. In this connection, I will turn to the issue of taxicabs. In the draft, you have created the possibility that the local authority may set maximum prices for taxi services. Are you convinced that this is justified? I understand the desire to prevent pirated taxis or overpaid taxis from operating, but is there no better way and means than the local government would sincerely want to do so? Do you not think that putting such restrictions on entrepreneurs in the free market could be contrary to the Constitution and the freedom to conduct a business?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U219	Thank you. You started with the words 'are you convinced' in the main terms of your question. I will be honest with you that I am not convinced. This issue has been very seriously discussed for years, namely the gross deception of consumers, which often damages the reputation of the whole country in addition to the reputation of taxiing. This activity is also not of a large scale, so we can do too much here for honest and decent cab drivers. However, when we prepared the draft, we have written in here a certain opportunity for the municipalities to take a very prudent approach to this issue, given the specifics of one or another municipality. Let us not forget, however, that we do not have one municipality, but those municipalities where taxiing has some meaning still have more. Why did we write the bill like that? I would like to respond in such a way as to keep the subject open and to discuss it so that maybe the authorities should be given the opportunity to intervene over the top of their minds in the question of high prices. Given the specific role of the consumer, a taxi driver in real life, he is a fact-proposed person, we should offer some form of intervention. What have we offered here? Yes, the municipality may even determine in quite detail the maximum tariffs for some of the most widely used routes. Clear procedures are foreseen for this purpose, which requires the existence of a methodology and should result in a reasonable profitability for taxi drivers. All of these terms are to a certain extent relative and would, if applied as a law, be subject to appeal before an administrative court. In the course of the debate, there has already been a fear that some sovereign may do all sorts of stupid things before the elections. In theory, the current regulation of the draft should, as it were, limit it. However, I would like to leave this issue for discussion between the first reading and the second reading. I'm very open here. We should do something, otherwise there will be some disappointment in the legislators and also in us, as the initiators of the draft, that we will not be able to solve such a simple problem. Then the finger will be pointed at both the government and the Riigikogu. I've been looking into how common this problem is. There are at most 5% of taxi drivers who clearly abuse consumer confidence by the way they pay and conduct their services on the market. I think that Estonia should be such a civilized country that when a person gets into a taxi, he knows that he receives a service at a price that is considered reasonable in an area with such a standard of living and cost of living, he does not have to pay a hundred times the price. I think we need to be able to protect the consumer when the municipality, which is responsible for this too, acknowledges this problem, in particular, in Tallinn, who has actually proposed it, and says that there is no other way for it to eradicate these fraudsters, because there are rules in the free market economy. Our experts agree that there is a certain restriction here. Nobody forbids a person to ask the Baltic station for 200 euros for a ride to Pirita. But we know that when a person gets in a taxi, he generally expects the price I've been trying to describe. I think that an attempt towards a reasonable civilization may have something to do with legislative regulation. A brief summary of this answer is that I am open to looking for sensible solutions to this problem. Following the discussions of the Economic Commission, proposals have also come from the Estonian Taxi Leaders' Association. I think we could discuss this issue again.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U220	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U221	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Paragraph 30 (2) of the draft law states that the price of a regular service on the basis of a public service contract is to be established by regulation of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications for the carriage of passengers by ship, recreational craft, ferry and air traffic. Why do we need to set a price per kilometre on our air and ferry routes when aircraft and ships travel from their starting point to their end point without any stops? I admit that this is necessary in train and bus traffic to calculate the ticket price, but why do we need a regulation to set the price of a kilometre in air traffic and ferry traffic?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U222	Thank you. It's such a clever and clever question. You want to corner me, but I'm taking my mathematical knowledge out of my back pocket. It happens when something comes in front of the brackets, but the so-called composition inside the brackets stays the same. The constant in front of the parentheses doesn't really have a big impact on some of the factors. But yet the whole picture comes together more beautiful than when you start spraying it and creating several sequences of factors inside the feathers.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U223	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U224	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. My question concerns state fees. In the law, the kroons have been converted into euro with the precision of a cent. When looking at sums such as EUR 63.91, EUR 19,17, did it not make sense that the coins could have been rounded to at least 5 and 0? Some of the drafts that have come to the Chamber of the Riigikogu have done so, they have been so rounded up.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U225	It might be considered. But I like that kind of money with one cent on it sometimes. This shows our attitude that we have respect for every euro cent.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U226	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U227	Thank you, Mr President. I'm going to talk a little bit about the public transport in Tallinn. Paragraph 55 refers to the obligation of a regular passenger. One basic requirement is that a passenger is obliged to hold a valid ticket for the use of a public transport vehicle. They will continue to talk about the ticket, the existence of the ticket, the numbering of the ticket. What, then, about electronic registration of the journey, for which this bill does not provide an opportunity? There is no mention here of electronic travel cards, the use of an ID card to confirm the right to travel, the validation of a common card or the possibility of a free ride, which has been stated that in this case validation should not be required at all. That's not all there is to it. Where's the e-Governance?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U228	Thank you. The answer to your question lies in § 8, which gives the concept of a ticket: 'The ticket is in paper or other form, including electronic form, a document proving the driver's right to drive. '
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U229	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U230	Thank you. Good minister! First of all, I must refer to my colleague's question of line permits. So far, the line licenses were shared by the Line License Commission. The draft proposal proposes that the Road Administration will share the path permits, which have also developed the principles of consideration on the basis of which these permits are to be allocated. My question also has to do with disturbing. It is possible to refuse to grant a path if the new route disturbs the other operator. Do you not consider that there is a risk that it will actually perpetuate those carriers who are already on the market and will not allow entry into the market for those who would like to compete?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U231	Thank you. I can be inaccurate now. I did not comment on this in advance because the law is large and wide and there are many nuances here. The issue of interference still needs to be considered when it concerns publicly organised regular services. If we are talking about commercial transport and its greater opening up to competition, then here we would rather create an opportunity to compete. Of course, there are many difficult to measure conditions, but in principle new players should still be able to enter the market if they can demonstrate that they offer a better quality service.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U232	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U233	Hence my question of continuation. My concern is that it is not very clear that this is a public service contract; these lines are still granted to commercial lines. The greater concern is that the explanatory memorandum breaks down a bit, which is understood as disturbing, and it also refers to the fact that authorisation may be refused if the commercial interests of another undertaking are disturbed. I admit that it is clear with physical disturbance: the buses simply do not fit in one place any more, and there may be some kind of dangerous situation. The question is precisely whether a refusal on the ground that commercial interests are being disturbed cannot lead to the situation of market rulers being left to the fore.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U234	We need to minimise the risk you're describing. I am simply expressing my view that if there is something that can be interpreted in various ways, it should certainly be clarified. Now, I'm gonna use this chair to explain this subject, we haven't talked about it here. For example, the Competition Authority has also expressed a position (maybe I am am amplifying it at the moment), which can be summed up roughly in such a way that what permits you to mess around here, let this thing be organised on the market. The member of the Riigikogu, Arto Aas, asked about taxiing in advance. The objection to this in my view seemed to be an objection sought at the outset, rather than a defence shield for operating companies, is still the stability of public transport. Clearly, if public transport is not stable or things do not work like clockwork, people do not get used to and believe in public transport, then the number of users will decrease. That is why the authorisation mechanism is important. The difficult question also concerns newcomers. Among them may be those who come and offer dumping, including individuals who work for a few weeks and who do not really care if they can be stable and long-term on the market. All of this makes it necessary to rethink the authorisation mechanism. I think it's partly justified, just life has shown it. In the 1990s, when there was a great deal of freedom in this area, this resulted in different consequences. But the answer to your question is that if there are reasonable risks, we will look at this problem between readings and trying to formulate the law better with experts.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U235	Jaan Apple Tree, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U236	Thank you. Good minister! In the round of coordination, the Association of Estonian Cities made 39 proposals, some of which have been taken into account, some are not. I'm still coming back to the subject of taxicabs. In particular, the Cities Association has requested that a taximeter be fixed in a place-by-place manner and a removable taximeter should be excluded. This proposal has not been taken into account. Similarly, removing the plafone is actually a partial solution. Perhaps other taxi signs should be removed in the same way, precisely in the context of cheating on passengers. Do you think that the current amendment, for example, in the taxi industry in Tallinn, will lose anarchy or will there still be loose ends?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U237	A number of comments have been made on taxiing, which could be considered again, because the taxicab landscape is quite different for us and there are often conflicting interests among the various taxi companies. We have tried to be very attentive to the majority of market participants, but there are taxi companies that are opting for the regulation proposed in the bill and, in fact, in some cases, rather argumentately. This also concerns what I believe you referred to in your question: equal access to taxi stops for all companies with taxi licences. At the same time, we can see that even the municipalities have gone this way, that public taxi stops are awarded by competition to a particular taxicab operator and its branded operators. Now the question is whether this is a better situation where there is a real confusion at a publicly available and visible taxi stop and the quality of service is once again deteriorating from the point of view of the consumer. These are the weighing points. In a normal society, I think the municipality should be able to organise such a thing. The fact that we are discussing personal experiences in taxiing and trying to find legal solutions to these issues is, in some ways, the result of the bennyhill style of urban governance. But if it's possible to solve these issues between two readings that relate to the location of the plafone and better access to taxi stops, then I'm very open. There are different views. You weigh one way or the other, you listen to the municipalities who have been in trouble with these things, and yet you yearn for taxicabs to be well organized. I want to do the best I can.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U238	Thank you, Minister. No further questions. I would like to present the Chair of the Riigikogu, Kaja Kallas, Chairman of the Economic Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U239	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Economic Commission discussed the draft Public Transport Act on 20 May. Minister Juhan Parts, Ain Tatter, Head of the Roads and Rail Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and Rein Lätt, Adviser to the same department, had been invited to the meeting. What was the debate about, and what were the main questions raised at the Commission meeting? First of all, the issue of line permits, which was already discussed here, was discussed. How can it be understood that a line authorisation may be refused if it disturbs the commercial interests of an existing carrier? The Minister explained, which he heard in this sitting, that if there is even a small misunderstanding, it should be removed between the first reading and the second reading. It was also a question of centralising bus routes. During the previous composition of the Riigikogu, the Economic Commission repeatedly mentioned that there was a gradual transition to centralising cross-regional bus routes. Why hasn't this idea gone any further? The Ministry considered that centralisation could also have a counterproductive effect, i.e. the local real need is not taken into account. The Ministry considers that the Road Administration should significantly improve the quality of public transport planning. The issue of taxation was very closely discussed from different angles, particularly in the light of what this draft intends to improve. The Minister explained the additional requirements that help to improve and ensure the quality of the service provider, i.e. the taxi service provider. In order to reduce fraud, a mandate rule has been created, which my colleague has previously mentioned, on the basis of which the local authority can set marginal prices if necessary. The main debate on the setting of the price cap related to whether this does not restrict the freedom to conduct a business more than what is necessary to fulfil the desired objective. It was thought that the question might be rather that taxicabs are subject to all kinds of restrictions, but these restrictions are simply not respected and are not properly controlled, with additional requirements restricting law-abiding entrepreneurs, but the authors of fraud schemes are still operating. There was an in-depth discussion on price lists and possible price caps. It was suggested that the mechanism for restricting the free market should be proportionate. But it is also clear that this is still the problem of Tallinn. This is not so important in other local governments, as taxicabs are not such an important issue. It was also asked whether it was not considered to limit the number of licences and to apply such a restriction as in Finland, where there is a quota system that only ensures that legitimate and reliable service providers remain on the market. The representatives of the Ministry felt that taxicab regulation was a domestic matter, that we could implement the quota system, but this is a very big change that would definitely need a political decision. In the case of taxis, there was also a question of what will change with regard to this draft as regards cross-zonal taxi services, for example in two Harjumaa municipalities in Viimsi and Saku. The cross-zonal regulation has not been amended by this draft. Nor does this draft reflect the provision of taxi services for bicycles and horses, which is regulated by the local government. There were questions about the proposals for an association of persons with reduced mobility, precisely as to whether people with reduced mobility can access public transport. The draft provides only that public transport must have places for such people and that incentives are provided for them, but the draft does not regulate these people's access to these public transports. Following the debate, the Committee on Economic Affairs decided to put the draft on the agenda for the plenary session on 5 June 2013, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 17 p.m. on 11 September. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U240	Good waitress, you have questions. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U241	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! In reply to Mr Neeme the Great's question, the Minister has already nicely said that § 8 determines what is a ticket. However, Chapter 8 lists all of which must appear on the ticket: the price including VAT, the amount of VAT, the area of validity of the ticket. Tallinn and Viljandi have valid tickets. Have you considered, have they really been marked with all these things, or will this requirement entail costs in the municipalities where this system is applied? There are no long-distance lines or lines crossing city borders. In the meantime, a system based on an ID-card was also used in Tallinn. There is certainly no VAT or anything on the ID card.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U242	Thank you. I can't comment on the details of whether an e-ticket contains this information. Maybe he's got it online. But I do not have this technical knowledge and we did not discuss it in the committee either. However, if there is such a risk, the law should certainly be supplemented in order to prevent this threat from happening, because in any case we should not inhibit innovation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U243	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U244	Good manager! Good waitress! When you read this draft, it turns out that public transport is carried out in five places: municipalities, rural municipalities, public transport centres, the Road Administration and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. For the last six years, it has been said that there should be a nationwide public transport centre, which would organise all domestic transport and also look at how to link it to and do this work together with transport routes located outside Estonia's borders. Is that what the Commission was talking about?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U245	Thank you. As I mentioned, it was precisely under this point that the Commission spoke of whether it would make sense to centralise the bus routes. It was found that this could have a counterproductive effect that did not take into account the local real need for public transport. The Ministry considered that the Road Administration must significantly improve the quality of planning, but there is no direct intention of centralisation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U246	Yana Toom, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U247	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I didn't understand one thing you said. On the one hand, it seemed to be discussed that the local authority may, if necessary, set a limit price for taxi services. On the other hand, there is the Ministry's view that this restricts the freedom to conduct a business. That's how I got it. What was left with the solution, is it really possible to set these price caps and who should do it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U248	Thank you. The Ministry has offered in the draft the possibility that the local government can impose these price caps. There was a debate in the Commission on whether this restricts the freedom to conduct a business and is proportionate. The Ministry has nevertheless expressed its position in the draft and has come up with this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U249	Aivar Chef, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U250	I will come back to the subject of my previous question. In the coming days, new electric trains and new diesel trains will start to run. County governments, municipalities and local public transport centres only look at this area within their county borders, but trains pass through several counties. The new approach should certainly ensure that people get on the train and also off the train and home. Many of our people work across the bay in Finland. Was it discussed about public transport that there should be a public transport centre in Tallinn? In my opinion, it would be very good if it were located at an airport where a public transport would be from a port and a train station, it would be accessible by bus and it would be possible to drive from there.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U251	Thank you. This issue does not directly concern the Public Transport Act, but the transport development plan prepared by the Ministry. All these issues have been raised in the development plan prepared by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, where the national picture has just been viewed. It is also a matter of interconnecting airports and railway stations so that these lines and people's locations are consistent, rather than there. I understand that the transport development plan is not yet ready. If there are any suggestions on this, it is worth making them to the Ministry in the course of its work, because later they will be more difficult to do. I understand that this is the basic document from which both the Road Administration and those organisations that have responsibilities in this area plan their activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-05_U252	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading of draft 404 should be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 404 amendments. a 11 September at 5 p.m. The first reading is closed and the 12th item is also closed. Good fellows, today's session is closed. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 5.46 p.m.
