ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U1	Good fellows, good morning. We will begin the Tuesday session of the eighth working week of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask for a chair of speakers from the Riigikogu who wish to hand over drafts or inquiries. Please, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will hand over the decision of the Riigikogu, submitted by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, 'Authorisation of the National Audit Office 2013. A draft for monitoring the activities carried out in 2005. The National Audit Office has carried out a procurement which leads to the conclusion that the best offer was made by Grant Thornton Rimess OÜ. According to this result, the Committee on Monetary Affairs has a proposal for such a decision to be taken by the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U3	There's no more calls. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted one draft decision. According to our Rules of Procedure and Homes Act, the Management Board of the Riigikogu decides on its further processing. Let's go to the messages now. On Wednesday 13 November, the following members of the government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Defence Urmas Reinsalu and Minister of Justice Hanno Pevkur. Due to the resignation of a member of the Riigikogu, Kajar Lemberi is located in s. November 18th, Jaanus Marrandi, alternate member of the Riigikogu. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has confirmed the resignation of a member of the Riigikogu from the member of the Legal Affairs Committee of Neeme Suur and taking up the seat of a member of the Constitutional Committee. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the draft State Budget Act 2014 initiated by the Government of the Republic by the deadline for submitting documents on the basis of the second reading. a on November 12, at 5.15 p.m. The President of the Riigikogu has convened additional sessions of the Riigikogu in the Chamber of Toompea Castle as follows, on the proposal of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. The first additional session will start at 5 p.m. on 14 November 2013 and will run until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 9 p.m. on 15 November, unless all the drafts on the agenda of the eighth working week of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu are discussed at the meeting on 14 November at the latest. All those drafts which were not discussed during the eighth working week are on the agenda of the first additional sitting. The second additional session shall begin at 10 a.m. on 15 November 2013 and shall run until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 9 a.m. on 16 November 2013, unless all the drafts on the agenda of the first additional session are discussed by the end of the first additional session at the latest. All those drafts which were not discussed at the first additional sitting are on the agenda of the second additional sitting. The third additional session shall begin at 10 a.m. on 16 November 2013 and shall run until the agenda is exhausted, but no longer than 9 a.m. on 17 November 2013, unless the drafts on the agenda of the second additional session are discussed by the end of the second additional session at the latest. All those drafts which were not discussed at the second additional sitting are on the agenda of the third additional sitting. The fourth additional session shall begin at 9 a.m. on 17 November 2013 and shall run until the agenda is exhausted, but no later than 18 November 2013 until 8 a.m., unless all the drafts on the agenda of the third additional session are discussed by the end of the third additional session at the latest. All the drafts which were not discussed at the third additional session are on the agenda of the fourth additional session. Good colleagues, we're conducting a presence check. 82 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, none 19.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U4	Let's go to today's agenda. The first point is the second reading of the draft law on the organisation of health services initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws 481. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu to be presented by the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U5	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Law on the organisation of health services and related amendments to other laws 481 - the directive on the free movement of patients - was discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs five times: before the first reading twice and after the first reading three times to prepare for the second reading. We also held two separate meetings for discussion with stakeholders. On 24 October, representatives of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, the Estonian Private Health Insurance Association, the Estonian Patients' Advisory Board, the Estonian Medical Association, the Estonian Hospitals' Association and the Ministry of Social Affairs took part in the meeting. The first meeting with the interest groups took place on 24 September, attended by representatives of the Association of Estonian Pharmacists, the Association of Estonian Pharmacists and the Association of Estonian Pharmacists and the Ministry of Social Affairs. We heard the views and suggestions of the parties. The Estonian Young Doctors' Association also presented its proposals to the Social Committee. The Commission has decided to support these proposals and to amend the Health Service Organisation Act so that healthcare professionals can provide healthcare not only within the acquired profession but also within the acquired profession.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U6	Good waitress, I'm sorry, I'll cut you off! Ladies and gentlemen, the hall is buzzing. Please respect the waitress and respect those colleagues who want to hear the overview of Bill 481! Please continue!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U7	The members of the Riigikogu, the committees and the political groups did not submit any proposals to amend the draft. The Committee on Social Affairs finalised two amendments in cooperation with the Ministry of Social Affairs. The first proposal addresses the problem of junior doctors in such a way that health professionals can provide healthcare not only within the acquired profession but within the acquired profession. The second proposal concerns the wording of the implementing provision of the Health Insurance Act. The amendment complements the Health Insurance Act with an implementing provision which states: 'The Health Insurance Fund will pay the insured person the cross-border health care compensation for the health care services and prescription medicines and medical devices issued in the course of their provision, which have been or have been issued since 25 October 2013. ' 25 October is the date on which this directive entered into force in the European Union, but we were unable to adopt the provisions implementing this directive earlier. So we have an implementation clause that goes beyond the limit of the limit of the limit of the requirement that a number of Estonian patients go to another European Union country within the framework of this directive before we apply this provision. Taking into account this amendment will guarantee the right to reimbursement of cross-border healthcare from the date of transposition of the Directive for the use of healthcare and related prescription medicines and medical devices. A separate topic which was discussed at length was the appeal of the Association of Estonian Pharmacists and the Association of Estonian Pharmacists regarding the designation of pharmacists as health professionals. In a joint return, the proposal was requested to be amended so that the pharmacist and pharmacist are defined as health care professionals and the delivery of medicines, i.e. the pharmacy service, is defined as a health care service. The Commission discussed on several occasions the problem of the appointment of pharmacists as health professionals and the link between the pharmacy service and the health care service. The Committee on Social Affairs has previously approved a report on ensuring the availability of high-quality and sustainable pharmacy services and considers it necessary to continue the discussion on the extension of the pharmacy service and the integration of better health care after the completion of the Praxis study. A study called 'The role of modern pharmacy services as part of primary health care in ensuring the sustainability of the Estonian health care system' will be completed in the near future. The Committee on Social Affairs considers that pharmacists could be health workers, but their appointment as health workers and the definition of pharmacy services as health services should be resolved by a separate law. The Ministry of Social Affairs has started developing relevant laws. It has been agreed that all important health decisions will be made after they have been discussed in the circle of the goodwill agreement. All aspects, including the impact on the financing of health care, should be thoroughly discussed before a decision is taken. The inclusion of pharmacists among healthcare providers was also discussed by the Round Table on the Goodwill Agreement during the procedure of this draft. It was decided jointly that, since the extension of the definition of healthcare professional is not directly related to the cross-border healthcare directive, this issue will be moved forward in the context of a separate draft. The Ministry of Social Affairs also sent a letter to the Social Affairs Committee. The next goodwill agreement meeting with representatives of the sector will be held on 27 November already. There, representatives of the association of pharmacists will report on the role of pharmacists in primary health care, after which a draft will be drawn up. The procedural decisions of the commission were as follows: At its meeting on 5 November, the Committee on Social Affairs decided by consensus to send the draft to second reading by 12 November and to propose that the second reading be completed. Should the second reading of the draft be completed today, the Commission proposes sending the draft to the third reading by 14 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U8	Thank you, good waitress. You have at least two questions. Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U9	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable speaker! I'm asking about cross-border healthcare. After all, this is a very good and welcome change, but how should patients who need an operation for which the Estonian Health Insurance Fund has not established a quota? There are relatively many operations that are not carried out in Estonia and therefore the Health Insurance Fund does not have a price list to compensate for the harvest afterwards.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U10	Good questioner! If some patients have an indication that they need to have a specific operation, but this is not done in Estonia, we already have a system to ensure it. The doctors' consulate makes a decision and if there is a chance that the operation will be carried out abroad, the patient will also be able to get there and the health insurance fund will reimburse the costs. This is not possible because of this directive on the free movement of patients. If the person with the health insurance of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund needs medical care and his or her health can be fixed thanks to this help, this is still possible. There is a system for getting help outside Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U11	Thank you. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U12	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I share quite little in this area and pass on a question to you from a family doctor. He wants to know whether he can issue a prescription after this law enters into force so that the patient can buy a medicine that is not available in Estonia, but for example, there is a prescription in Portugal. If he or she does not have this right and if the patient receives this prescription in another country, will he or she be paid for the medicine if it is not in our Register of Medicinal Products or what is it called? That's a practical question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U13	This draft provides for a system of reimbursement of medicinal products used in the course of treatment beyond the border. If an Estonian patient goes to a country of the European Union and receives treatment there, he or she will also be reimbursed for the necessary medicines. Non-reimbursable own contribution and transport and accommodation costs. They're on the patient. This draft does not extend the Estonian prescription system. The Estonian family doctor can prescribe medicines that are allowed in the Estonian pharmaceutical system and our registers. These are the rights of the Estonian doctor and we do not extend them here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U14	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U15	Thank you, Mr President. Good Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee! People live and people die, and not always at home in their own bed. Some go abroad and die there, which is very ugly of him. That sucks how much. And if an autopsy is carried out abroad, which the person had not planned or ordered, will the Estonian Health Insurance Fund pay for it? Is it included in the health care list and in the health care fund's price list? It's 45 euros for a simple autopsy, but it's almost 150 euros for a more complicated one. Does the Estonian Health Insurance Fund pay for this? In such cases, people have all the costs and costs involved.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U16	Good questioner! We did not address the issue of autopsies in a separate committee. However, there was a debate about compensating for the services listed by the Estonian Health Insurance Fund. And at the same time, according to my logic, it should be a medical service. The autopsy is already another service. Is this a health service? The list approved by the Health Insurance Board should be examined. After we have adopted this law here and approved the standard of delegation, my good colleague and I have the opportunity to raise this issue in the Estonian Health Insurance Fund Council. Then we'll find out if the autopsies are on that list or not.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U17	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U18	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! The fact that pharmacists are medical workers is known to all of us about everyday life. They give us more advice, the less you can contact the doctors. Given the general practice of our neighbouring countries and Europe, do we approach European practices in this step, or do we go somewhat above the general level? How is Finland, Latvia and Sweden? Are those pharmacists medical?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U19	Thank you. That's a very good question. We debated this issue very thoroughly and very much, especially with representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs. Of course, we consider pharmacists to be part of the healthcare system and they are also considered to be healthcare providers in this directive. But this argument was a little more fundamental. Perhaps I am more expressing my personal position here, but I think we should involve more pharmacists, or pharmacists, in order to enable people, above all, to have better access to primary services. However, this would require more precise regulation; it is not enough simply to designate them as health professionals, as was the specific proposal to the Committee on Social Affairs in connection with this directive. We should argue clearly which specific services, under which conditions, which responsibilities and which funding will be provided by pharmacists in the future. In this sense, we do not have any disagreements with the Ministry of Social Affairs either, but it requires the amendment of a number of laws and a detailed examination of the subject, for example, to the point that now pharmacies are advertising, but if they provide health care, then health care should not actually be advertised. It therefore concerns a wide range of issues, not only the regulation of the health system, but also, for example, the law of debt and advertising, whatever. During the procedure for the draft, we have achieved that meetings will take place between representatives of the whole sector and representatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs. They have been in a very constructive atmosphere. We have also commissioned a study on the quality of the pharmacy service and how to provide it, not only in cities, but also in the countryside. When pharmacists are called health professionals and specific regulation is introduced, I believe that there will be greater opportunities to ensure access to pharmacy services in rural areas as well. This is a subject that I hope will also be dealt with thoroughly by this Riigikogu, and we will come to a situation that will satisfy both the clients of pharmacies and allow pharmacists with a higher medical education to feel dignified. In summary, this would mean better primary health care for our people.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U20	Erki Arrow, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U21	Thank you. Let me ask you this last question. If we make pharmacists or pharmacists primary health care providers, will the costs of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund increase or decrease?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U22	Thank you. Indeed, some services may also be provided by pharmacists. But I say that this is the subject of the next discussions. And why should the Estonian Health Insurance Fund not pay for these services? The regulations of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund are very precise; they have a specific cost calculation behind them. It has been a major mistake in our current health care system that we have been guided by the current cost of patient treatment, which arises in particular. At the same time, there could also be calculations of how much money would have been spent on timely intervention, for example at the level of primary pharmacists. We would save on much more complex treatments if we were to measure blood sugar on time, for example, or do some other simple medical procedures, for which pharmacists are already qualified to get a job. I regard this as an opportunity to expand primary services. I repeat: this would save us the future on operations and other expensive medical care. But this is the place of analysis and debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U23	Priit Onion, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U24	Thank you, Mr President. Waitress, you spoke for a long time here, but I still did not understand very well why we cannot make pharmacists first-level health care workers in the current draft. But okay, you've decided so. However, have you been negotiated with the Ministry at what pace is being taken forward to draft a bill declaring pharmacists to be health care workers? When can we see this bill here in the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U25	Thank you, good questioner! The question is very true! That's what's really hard to understand at first glance. We all know that pharmacists and, above all, pharmacists who have completed a higher level of medical education are part of the health care system. That's how we feel about them. They're not just shoppers or cashiers. They have specific knowledge, provide advice to people and, in certain cases, provide health services. The problem was that the directive contains a list of health professionals, and that list includes pharmacists. At the same time, there is a specific point in the directive that this directive does not change national health care arrangements and codes. The problem with Estonia is that in all other laws we call pharmacists and pharmacists together, pharmacists have a lower level of preparation, applied higher education, and are not health workers in the sense of our Estonian law. If we had wanted to change this and meet the wish of the Pharmacy Association and legalize these workers, our own code would not have allowed it yet. This will require more extensive and detailed work until we define specific services and criteria, including a system of remuneration. It's gonna take more work. The Ministry of Social Affairs has confirmed that the next meeting of the goodwill agreement will be held as early as 27 November and that the law will be drawn up after that, as I have asked for an explanatory memorandum to be added on the basis of a letter from the Ministry. I myself hope that we will be able to discuss this draft here in the first half of next year. After all, in primary care, we have a clear problem with the shortage of family doctors and nurses, and specialists are in short supply in quite a number of areas. I myself believe that we should make the most of the potential we have in medicine in the form of highly educated people. I am also thinking about pharmacists, especially pharmacists. I hope that the Ministry of Social Affairs will work hard with us on this, and the Committee on Social Affairs will certainly continue to do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U26	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U27	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable Chairman of the Commission! I know how much the Commission has dealt with this issue and how many people we have listened to. I'm not asking you a question like I wasn't in the committee room. One thing's strange. We also discussed in the Commission that it was only after the discussions we had, that we started to talk to family doctors, with whom the Ministry of Social Affairs had not discussed this issue at all. At the same time, when it was suggested that some medicines could also be available in grocery stores, it was said: 'No-no-no, no way, it is only healthcare professionals who have to deal with it! ' As chairman of the committee, would you be able to make sure that this Riigikogu adopts this law and that pharmacists and pharmacists become first-level health workers?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U28	I, a good questioner, have only the Minister's word and a letter from the Ministry of Social Affairs that it is being dealt with, that the law is being developed. I really hope, and I suppose together we will contribute, that this Riigikogu will be able to discuss this issue in the first half of next year. The subject is complex, but I can see that the interest of pharmacists, the Estonian Association of Pharmacies and other people working in the sector is very high. On the other hand, the country's own interest should also be high to guarantee people access to primary health care. The Committee on Social Affairs will not stop working on this issue, and we can always ask what the state of drafting this law is. As far as family doctors are concerned, their opinion is also very important. Neither the Ministry of Social Affairs nor our committee has, however, discussed this issue separately with family doctors; our dispute has been more legal. At the same time, I know that family doctors are involved in the work of the Ministry of Social Affairs in the framework of the above-mentioned goodwill agreement. Their opinion is very important because they are the main providers of primary care responsibility. I hope this sector will be able to work together not to go into this kind of thing how do I say it? just looking at the possibilities of providing first-level health care services, primarily in the interests of Estonian people. We can discuss this bill here in the coming months.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U29	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Tsahkna. Ladies and gentlemen, we now have the opportunity to open negotiations. No calls, no negotiations. There are two amendments to the draft law, so let us examine them. The first is made by the Committee on Social Affairs, which has been fully taken into account by the commission. The second has also been done and taken fully into account by the commission. We have examined the amendments. The second reading of bill 481 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U30	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the State Tax Act and the Traffic Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Juhan Parts, Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications of the Speaker's Board, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U31	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government will submit to you a draft law amending the State Fees Act and the Traffic Act, whose main objective is to differentiate the rates of state fees charged for the activities carried out by the Road Administration and the activities carried out in the e-services environment in order to facilitate the use of e-services by the Road Administration. In order to reduce the forced movement of people and improve public services, we must be guided by the desire to give priority to solutions that enable them to be used electronically when designing public services. The Road Administration has planned to introduce an e-services environment at the beginning of 2014, where customers would be able to perform various operations without having to go to the Road Administration's Traffic Register Office. The introduction of the e-services environment has a very positive impact. Let me give you a few examples. Firstly, it reduces the need for people to attend, allowing time and money to be saved. Secondly, the e-services environment makes it possible to consume services 24/7. Thirdly, traffic loads are decreasing around the offices of the traffic register, which reduces the negative impact of emissions and noise. Fourthly, it will allow speeding up the service of people in the offices of the traffic register. In order to popularise the use of e-services, it is necessary to make clear to people the obvious material benefits. The draft provides for a 20% reduction in state fees for the use of e-services. On the other hand, more than 5% has to be paid for operations carried out in the offices of the Public Road Administration. This should motivate people to use e-services in particular. The upward adjustment is also due to the increasing annual negative impacts of road transport on society, including environmental damage. Additional social and insurance costs are included, which are also directly or indirectly covered by the state budget. The draft relates to the 2014 state budget. The draft provides for an additional state budget revenue of EUR 650000. I would ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U32	Thank you very much, Minister. You have questions. Please, colleague Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U33	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. As a general rule, the level of the state fee must be determined on the basis of the cost principle set out in § 4 (1) of the State Assets Act, i.e. the State fee must be based on the costs incurred in carrying out the operation. According to your ministry, the actual operating cost is 14 euros and 88 cents, but you want to set a fee of 127 euros. Where does that make sense? How do you justify such a big difference?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U34	Please, Mr Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U35	This principle, to which you refer, is very correct. At the same time, the State Fees Act also provides for a second principle: depending on the content of the service, the charging of one or the other public service may take into account its impact on the social, economic and environmental aspects and thereby the indirect burden on the public purse. When we are talking about transport, this is certainly a sector with a very large impact.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U36	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, A year and a few months ago the Riigikogu dealt with the draft law amending the state fee law and the Public Transport Act, which was initiated by the Government. At the time, I will give a few examples of us, for example, that we reduced the state fee for issuing the transit mark from EUR 115 to EUR 57, and now we will increase it to EUR 60. Then we increased the state fees for the registration of off-road vehicles and jetty twice to 63 euros, now we will increase further to 67 euros. What message should such a systemless itch give people? Should we not address this issue in a complex way, as the government has always said in its assessments of the drafts presented by opposition parties?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U37	Please, Mr Aivar Kokk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U38	I believe this is a complex approach. As I said, the starting point for this draft is that I hope that the e-environment for traffic register services will be successfully launched on 1 January. If a person needs the services of a traffic register office, including those mentioned by you, some of them can certainly be used electronically. In this case, the state fees are 20% lower. With regard to the 5% upward correction of fees, I tried to explain why. The socio-economic effects of the service must certainly be taken into account when setting the state fee. It is a desire to motivate the use of e-services in particular, but the inflation component must also be taken into account. The 2009 draft was born quite differently, we reviewed the proportions of the various state fees paid for the service as a whole. With this draft, we do not change the proportion between fees for one service or another.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U39	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! Is there any kind of information campaign planned in connection with the implementation of this law, so that people know that the e-service is 20% cheaper?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U40	I believe that in all contact points, whether physical or electronic, the relevant information will be made available to people.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U41	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U42	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! Yesterday in the Commission, I also said my position. I don't think it's right that the state has made the DMV a kind of business company, the DMV has to make money for the Treasury. The impact of this law on the Treasury is also positive. My colleague, the Apple Tree, said that the Socats do not support it. How did you get your partner's Reform Party to agree to support it? They've always said the state doesn't do business. This has not been declared by the Fatherland and Res Publica Association. So how did you do it? Yesterday, all the reformers voted in favour of us doing business with the DMV.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U43	Thank you. That's your interpretation. I wouldn't call it a kind of state capitalism, as it is today in fashion. And second of all, I didn't read Jaan Õunapuu's speech that the Socats didn't support it. Rather, Mr. Apple Tree and I were discussing a very niche issue. Let us not forget that the main aim of this draft is to significantly improve the registration of cars today, we call it the traffic register, the quality of services, accessibility and customer friendliness. To this end, we would like to introduce a broad range of services enabling the use of the Internet, where state fees are 20% lower. This is still the main objective of the bill! That some of the existing rates will be increased, I would not make such a dramatic assessment. In conclusion, I believe that if we give people a real chance to choose at least some of the services in the e-environment and pay less, this should be a positive draft, which you especially like. I also call on you to support this positive draft, as the Social Democrats do.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U44	Please, colleague Jaan Apple Tree, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U45	Dear Minister, Bastards don't support this bill. For the sake of clarity, I shall say this here. Aivar Kokk asked you very solemnly whether there would be an information campaign about the 20% lower fees for e-services. That was also the subject of the Commission. You replied that it is not possible to obtain e-services at the moment, and you believe that the problem that has been said here was that the state fee for trailers is enormously high when compared to the cost of purchasing them, a marginal issue. I would like to ask about the development of the same e-services. Is the 20% reduction in the number of operations in offices, as you write in the explanatory memorandum, a reality in 2014?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U46	It's a prognosis. I hope that in real life, the decline will be even greater. Many of the services we are talking about are relatively peculiar, but given our current experience of e-services, it can be assumed that the people of Estonia accept the new system to a much greater extent than we dare to propose. It's a prognosis, and the future will show how it's accepted in real life. That's one. Second, you can surprise me. We come before you with a bill to reduce state fees by 20% for one service and another, to make it more convenient by electronic means, but the Social Democrats are also against it. Is there anything left in the Republic of Estonia that you are in favour of, ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U47	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U48	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, For the sake of the tenogram, I would like to mention that you were wrong when you said that the state fees were changed in 2009. They were amended in 2012. But the question is whether the objective is customer friendliness or EUR 651220, which is added to the Treasury. One could simply and honestly say that in fact, the draft has also been drawn up because the country needs additional money. A "no" or "yes" answer is enough.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U49	Definitely no answer, ladies and gentlemen! We do not introduce e-services to fill the Treasury. We do not make the activity of the registration centre, for which there has been a great deal of justified criticism, much more effective for this purpose alone. If the State provides any services and charges for them, it can always be discussed whether the charge is low or high, whether it is fair or not. But the fact that the state also receives some money is, in my opinion, a sum of money is positive. I am somewhat incomprehensible to the so radical confrontation of the social democrats with this legislative initiative. Now, somehow, try to ease up and still support this bill. I absolutely do not want the implementation of e-services in the car register centre to become the kind of political mantra we have multiplied in relation to e-elections. In my opinion, however, e-services at the car registration centre could be suitable for social democrats.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U50	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U51	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. After all, the real life goes over e-services. We're pretty used to that, and it's really nice in the end. But with this system, people who have a computer and who have learned how to handle it, and companies who win, actually win. But there are relatively many people in the country who just don't have a computer, but older people don't know how to use a computer. Is there no danger that we will discriminate against older people in this law? Old people still come to the bar and talk about what it's about, in short, using this so-called "normal service." Have you also discussed with the Ministry of Social Affairs whether it is discrimination against older people?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U52	Thank you. This is a question of a completely different opera, but I think it is quite appropriate. When we talk about our e-society, it is clear that we really need to develop it in such a way that no one is left behind so that we avoid the so-called digital divide. You know that we are doing very in-depth regular research on this, in which we analyse different target groups, what people's real absorption capacity, will, as well as skills-knowledge to cope with in cyberspace. We have had a lot of relevant programmes since the late 1990s and they continue. If we look at the information society development plan discussed in the government and also here in the Riigikogu Committee, there is also one of the most important goals of the involvement of our entire population in the information society. After all, this is a general experience, but there are certain proportions that apply here too, as the free choice of people also plays a major role. Some people just don't like computers, they like things and old habits, they like to act the old way. However, of course, we must make every effort to ensure that cyberspace services are available to people, regardless of age and place of residence. There must be affordable necessary equipment, communication solutions on site and, of course, to be able to obtain some kind of initial training, and this, by the way, at the expense of the state. It's very important to broaden your horizons. We have had a lot of trainings, hundreds of thousands of Estonian people who have volunteered for basic knowledge of the Internet and the possibilities of using computers. And it has to be continued. I wouldn't be sure right now that people in the country and older people are completely out of the cyber world. I have so many personal acquaintances of my own who prove otherwise. I know it doesn't depend directly on living in a country or city.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U53	Please, Mr Luigas, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U54	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. There are also many older people in my community who have a computer and who use certain services with it. But still. You said in your report that you have launched studies on the behaviour of certain groups of people. Has it also been examined whether the availability of these services in rural areas is the same as for urban and older people as for younger people? Do you still not think that older people who do not know how to use e-service will pay a higher fee?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U55	Please, Mr Kalev Eagle, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U56	In my opinion, it is speculative to say that paying for specific traffic register services will be a major burden for older people living in the countryside. That is really a speculative argument, and I do not want to accept it. Life will show. I would also like to point out that, due to the wide menu of traffic register services, some services remain, either way or otherwise, where arrival is essential. I'm sure these people will pay for it to a large extent if you prefer to use that word. This is certainly not a focus on older people living in the countryside.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U57	Thank you, Madam President. Austet Minister! Social Democrats are certainly in favour of more implementation of e-services and more customer-friendliness. But these innovations have their own clear price in your bill of €651220. This price is not cost-oriented and we do not think it is fair. Did you not consider an option where the balance sheet would have been equal to zero?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U58	We also considered this option. But we must find a reasonable balance between all these costs. Once again, apart from the cost-orientation of fees, we must inevitably also take into account the general inflation and other factors. In this sense, I believe that the calculations relating to the draft have been made fairly balanced. You said that Social Democrats basically support e-services. I repeat that the main purpose of the draft is to introduce the e-service more widely in the traffic register. If you vote against it, you have this right, then my conclusion is that you will not support the further development of e-society. I'm sure you're practical people, and you know everything pays. So we need to make sure that the cost-benefit side is always reasonably resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U59	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I now call on my colleague, Mr Palts, from the Committee on Economic Affairs, to hold the floor. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U60	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law was discussed yesterday in the Committee on Economic Affairs. The minister and other relevant officials were present. The minister made a presentation that was essentially the same as today's review. The members of the Economic Commission could ask questions and express opinions. One member of the Committee on Economic Affairs expressed the opinion that the 5% increase is really too high. The revenue generated is already higher than the cost and does not partly correspond to the idea of the State Fees Act. In fact, the State Fees Act allows those fees to be treated as an exception by virtue of a certain public interest. He was informed that it would then be necessary to amend the state fee law in such a way that exceptions could not be made to take account of certain public interests. Another member of the Committee on Economic Affairs also expressed the view that an increase in state fees of 5% is not fair. It wasn't a question, it was an opinion. They asked what the amendments to the draft were as regards the fact that some people ordered more than ten registration plates. The answer was that there is an amendment to the law which seeks to rule out ordering a number of license plates with attractive combinations of numbers at the same time. It was also pointed out that the number plate can be ordered from the office of the Road Administration's traffic register in the centre of Tallinn, but must go to Mustamäe. It was examined whether the situation had improved for the customer by changing the management of the Road Administration. It was answered that from 1 January, operations which did not require to be carried out can be carried out over the internet. The regulation on licenses and licenses has also been amended so that a person can order them online and have them delivered to a suitable place. The Road Administration has worked on the necessary technical solution and this will be ensured. There was an interest in how much e-services are currently used and how much traffic records offices are visited by the Road Administration. What is this proportion? The answer was that the proportion is now very much in favour of attendance, as most of the e-services will only be introduced from the new year. The Road Administration has predicted that the introduction of e-services will reduce the total number of operations carried out in the traffic register offices by 20%. One member of the Committee on Economic Affairs drew the attention of ministerial representatives to the fact that the explanatory memorandum contains sentences that are poorly worded, so that their point remains completely unclear. For example, a specific sentence was introduced, but there are others. The minister apologized for the language editor. One member of the Economic Commission regretted that the draft did not solve the problem of registration of trailers. The registration fee for trailers shall be 25 to 30% of the value of the trailer. Further comments were requested on the state fees for Internet requests. It was answered that two inquiries could be made on the website of the Estonian Road Administration. One of these is a simple request based on the registration number, on which you can find out whether the vehicle is subject to any restrictions and whether the inspection is valid. The second is an extended query, which provides more concrete information about the history of the vehicle, such as passing inspections and errors detected there. The expanded request costs 2 euros. The Road Administration, the Consumer Protection Board and the Tax and Customs Board have started a campaign to clean up the market for second-hand cars. The Road Administration will set up a website at the beginning of next year to check the background of the vehicle in such a way that it no longer has to pay for the expanded query. First, it was decided to propose that the first reading be stopped by 8 against 3, with 0 abstentions. Secondly, it was decided to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 12 noon on 15 November. Eight votes in favour, three against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U61	Thank you very much. You have a question from my colleague, Mr Velman. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U62	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good Commission waitress! Has the bill we have on the table already adjusted the text? Is it linguistically in place, or is this work done in the course of repairs?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U63	This question was not discussed. When you ask about this particular remark, it concerned the explanatory statement and not the text of the draft law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U64	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Palts. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? I invite my colleague Jaan Õunapuu to speak as a representative of the Social Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U65	Very honourable President of the Riigikogu! Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, This draft is intended to take over EUR 650000 from the taxpayer's pocket in order to increase the revenue from the 2014 budget. In fact, it can be said positively that the traffic register will be waived for the reply to the extended request for state fees. The aim is also to reduce the misuse of more than ten regulations on the issuing of registration marks on the basis of an application by the holder. Currently, there is a very limited number of e-services available in this area, with 20% of registration volumes expected to be covered by remote services in the coming year. Is the Road Administration prepared for this and is it not safe to fear a conflict of interest? Social Democrats fully support the development of e-services, but can this not be done in such a way that the existing tax rates should not be increased? As a general rule, the level of state fees must be determined on the basis of the cost principle set out in § 4 (1) of the State Fees Act, i.e. the state fee must correspond to the costs incurred in carrying out the operation. The 5% increase in state fees is not justified in any way. According to MKM, the cost-based fee for registration of a vehicle, including a trailer, would be EUR 14 and 88 cents. The current fee rate, I remind you, is 121 euros and 43 cents, and it is intended to be raised to 127 euros. The draft has a very negative impact on those persons who, for some reason, have to use the services of the Road Administration's Traffic Register Office, as the rates of state fees increase for operations carried out there. The National Audit Office has just published an overview of the use and disposal of state assets in 2012. It has been pointed out in 2006 that the country's accounts are in order, but many people in reality do not feel it, their standard of living has improved considerably. Rather, coping with daily life has become more difficult. Government departments have hypocritically accused soccer people of wanting to introduce a car tax. It can always scare people before the election. Unfortunately, this proposal has been torn out of context, and the whole package of economic and financial proposals has been left out of focus. What does the coalition do? This draft aims to increase the state fees related to the activities of the Public Road Administration and also envisages the taxation of vehicles, which can be called the car tax they plan. I would also like to remind you that excise duty has always been raised. In the context of this draft, I am also talking about the state fee to be charged for the registration of trailers, which the Socats have tried to make people more acceptable. The coalition has consistently rejected our proposal to reduce the fee to EUR 25. I have already mentioned that registration of vehicles, including trailers, costs EUR 121 43 cents, plus EUR 28 and 76 cents for the registration plate. The average price of trailers sold in Estonia is 640 euros. Thus, the state fee is 24% of the total cost of the trailer, while the new car registration fee is on average 1% of the acquisition costs. Compared to neighbouring countries, we have a much higher trailer registration fee. In Finland, the average price of trailers is EUR 750 and registration with the license plate costs the owner a maximum of EUR 29 or 3.7% of the cost instead of our 24%. Registration costs 5.5 euros in Norway, 6.3 euros in Sweden, 41 euros in Latvia and 34 euros in Lithuania. In this way, it is reasonable to state with certainty that the state fee for passenger car trailers in Estonia is disproportionate to other vehicles as well as to the nearest neighbours. If the government wanted to eliminate this inequality, it would have had a great opportunity at the moment. Unfortunately, this is not happening, rather the tax burden on residents will be increased further. The Minister expressed himself very demagogically, talking about the socialist attitude towards e-services. I reaffirm: we fully support their extension, not at the cost of an increase in the overall fees. For this reason, the Social Democratic Party Group cannot support the draft and proposes to reject it at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U66	No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. You have just heard that the Group of the Social Democratic Party wishes to reject the draft. We must vote on this proposal. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U67	Thank you, manager. Before the vote, please have a five-minute break.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U68	How many minutes? I didn't hear you. I would like to ask for this proposal on paper too. Break five minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U69	Ladies and gentlemen, the intermission is over. Quiet, please! I shall put to the vote the draft proposal by the Social Democratic Party Group 496 to reject it at first reading. Please vote! 32 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 49 against, with no abstentions. The proposal was not supported. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 496 amendments. 1 p.m. on November 15th First reading of Bill 496 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U70	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Public Procurement Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like the Minister of Finance, Jürgen Ligi, to serve as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U71	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The draft law amending the Public Procurement Act aims to bring the law into line with the law on law enforcement measures of the European Union. The Directive clarifies that speed and flexibility are essential for the award of contracts under framework agreements and in a dynamic purchasing system. The implementation of the standstill period is not desirable. The right of tenderers can be protected by the possibility of declaring contracts void at a later stage. An analysis of the Public Procurement Act at the beginning of this year shows that there is a lack of legal clarity with regard to the implementation of the standstill period. The law does not explicitly provide for a standstill period and the Directive has considered it appropriate to protect the interests of contracting authorities differently. This draft law excludes the obligation to implement a standstill period for the award of a contract under a framework agreement and in a dynamic purchasing system. An opportunity has been added to submit a appeal to establish the subsequent nullity of the contract. It is also necessary to clarify the calculation of the time limit for challenging public procurement. The Directive requires that the time limit for challenge be at least 10 calendar days, the law has 7 working days, which, depending on the day of the appeal, is either 9 or 11 calendar days. Third, the possibility to lodge a dispute concerning the nullity of a contract shall be added if the estimated value of the contract exceeds the international threshold, but the contracting authority has not organised an international public procurement. At the time of entry into force of the draft, we plan 1 January 2014. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U72	Please, any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. Now I ask for a presentation by the vice-chairman of the Committee on Economic Affairs. My colleague Urve Palo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U73	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Madam President, thank you very much. The Economic Commission dealt with this draft law at its meeting on 4 November. Mr Jürgen Ligi, Minister of Finance, Mr Armin Lastovets, Head of the Public Procurement and State Aid Department of the Ministry of Finance, and Adviser Ms Evelin Karindi-Kask were invited to the meeting of the Commission. They presented the draft, its objectives and its content and answered the questions. In fact, there was only one additional question on the draft. The law must enter into force on 1 January 2014. The reply of the representative of the Ministry of Finance was that it is important to fix in the draft a specific date for the entry into force of the amendment, which could also be slightly later than 1 January 2014, but it should be possible to enforce the Government of the Republic's decree from that date, this is important. It was decided to propose that the draft be put on the agenda for the plenary session today, 12 November, to conclude the first reading and set the deadline for amendments at 18 November at 12 noon. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U74	Thank you very much, my colleague Urve Palo. Please ask your question, Mr Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U75	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, Every time the National Audit Office comes up with its own audit concerning another municipality and its financial affairs, it turns out that there are still problems with the public procurement procedure. For years, things have not changed. If we invite a representative of one municipality or another, it is claimed that the law on public procurement is too complicated to comply with. And that's what they say from a long time ago. I ask you, as a representative of the Commission, whether you do not know whether it is planned to revise the Public Procurement Act in general. If you can, please respond!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U76	I asked exactly the same question, and with about the same reasons, to the officials of the Ministry of Finance when we discussed this draft in the working group. Their response was that the public procurement law is indeed being revised more widely and that it was promised that its new version would reach stakeholders in 2014. Negotiations and discussions will start next year, and the bill should reach the Riigikogu by 2015 at the latest. Unfortunately, it was a rather long schedule, but that was the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U77	No further questions. Thank you very much, my colleague Urve Palo. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of 474 amendments. a on November 18th at 12:00. First reading of Bill 474 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U78	We begin the first reading of the Customs Act initiated by the Government of the Republic, the Penal Code and the Act amending the Law on the Export, Export and Import of Cultural Goods 515. For the presentation, Mr Jürgen Ligi, the honourable Minister of Finance, once again.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U79	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The aim of the draft is to complement measures to combat money laundering, to improve customs cooperation between the Baltic States in the fight against tax fraud and smuggling, and to speed up border crossings. The main changes to the draft are as follows: The Council of the European Union Cash Regulation imposes an obligation on entry into, or exit from, the European Union to declare at the border amounts higher than EUR 10000. Member States shall impose penalties for non-compliance with the obligation to declare. In Estonia, the penalty rates for non-declaration of cash are very low. The draft introduces new penalties, the rates of which depend on the amount of cash. The non-declaration of cash in the amount of EUR 10000 to EUR 32000 is a misdemeanour for which the maximum penalty is EUR 1200. Failure to declare an amount exceeding EUR 32000 is a criminal offence according to the bill, for which the penalty rate is 500 times the daily income of the sentenced person. Undeclared cash may be confiscated. Secondly, the users of the automatic customs identification system database will be expanded. The customs authorities of other countries will also be granted access. The aim is to prevent international tax fraud and smuggling. According to the current law, the Estonian Tax and Customs Board, the Police and Border Guard Board and the Defence Police already have access to the database. Regulation on weighing of road vehicles used for international freight is included in the Customs Act. According to the UN Convention, an Estonian entrepreneur is considering his vehicle with goods in Estonia and will receive a certificate. This must be accepted by all States which are parties to the Convention, including Russia, Belarus and Ukraine, for example. The existence of a certificate will speed up border crossings in different countries. The international agreement does not allow further overweight in another country. The obligation to affix the customs documents of the export of the cultural object by the personal seal of the customs officer shall be abolished. In recent years, electronic customs formalities have been introduced and such personal seals are no longer needed. The amendment saves the household costs of the tax administration. About 400 personal seals are currently in use. At the time of entry into force of the draft, we plan 1 January 2014. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U80	Thank you very much, Minister. You have a question. Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U81	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! Unfortunately, there was no mention of this in the Commission, but I am interested in this. Is it known to the Ministry of Finance how much cash is transferred or imported from Estonia on the basis of declarations? Of course, no one knows what is not being declared, but what are the amounts declared that are being transported across the Estonian border?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U82	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of Finance. I would like to ask Mr Aasa, Member of the Committee on Economic Affairs, to be the rapporteur for the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U83	This information is probably also available at the Ministry of Finance, but in general, the issue of cash is more of an Eesti Pank line.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U84	Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was discussed by the Committee on Economic Affairs on 4 November. Marek Uusküla, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi and Head of the Department of Customs and Excise Policy of the Ministry of Finance, who presented the objectives and content of the draft and answered the questions asked by the members of the Commission, were also invited to the meeting. I am not going to rephrase the substance of the draft, the Minister did so quite briefly. The Commission raised some questions aimed at clarifying the content of the draft. The question was asked what would happen if an amount of more than EUR 32000 was not declared. What happens is that the amount can be confiscated and, in addition, it is qualified as a criminal offence. According to the current regulation, the fine is only EUR 400; it is not a criminal offence and money cannot be confiscated. There was also a question of what other countries of the European Union have done, which have also had very low levels of penalties, as the explanatory memorandum to the draft report could read. For example, Hungary, Denmark and Portugal were brought. According to a representative of the Ministry of Finance, all these countries have already increased their penalty rates. Estonia is probably the last to do so. Interest was expressed as to whether the bill would solve business problems in Russia. In particular, this part of the bill on the mass of cars, the weighing of cars at border crossing points and Russia was taken into account. The legal problems should now be resolved. International certificates of the mass of cars shall be issued. It is, unfortunately, impossible to say how it turns out in reality, whether or not Russia is giving up car weighing. Legal problems may have been eliminated, but practical life is, unfortunately, something else. I will take this opportunity to answer Lembitu's question to the previous speaker. The explanatory memorandum to the draft law states that about 1 000 transfers of cash are declared per year and that a dozen irregularities have been detected, i.e. 1% of so many have been missed. At the same time, it was also said that these irregularities are very difficult to detect during random checks, which are generally identifiable on the basis of certain preliminary information. Now the decisions of the Economic Commission. Firstly, it was decided to include this draft on the agenda of the plenary session by 12 November 2013; secondly, we decided to propose that the first reading be closed and, thirdly, that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 5 p.m. on 26 November 2013. All the decisions of the Economic Commission were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U85	Thank you very much, Mr Aas. Please ask a question, Mr Luigas.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U86	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, It is customary for us to compare ourselves with Latvia and Lithuania, as they are countries close to us, when we set excise duties or some kind of fines. When comparing Estonia's penalty rates to those in Latvia and Lithuania, how is this relationship?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U87	Thank you. This draft is due to the fact that the penalties in force in our country are very small and there is still no possibility of confiscation. If I look at one table now, I can see that Latvia has a penalty rate of over EUR 7000, we are now growing to EUR 1200. In Lithuania it is even up to EUR 25000. So the penalty rates vary well across countries. The explanatory memorandum also makes it clear that there are practices from wall to wall. Some countries have fixed a fixed penalty rate, the amount of money, some countries are using a system that depends on how much money is transferred across the border. The higher the amount of the undeclared amount that will be transferred from the border, the higher the level of the fine. So the internships are different. With this draft, Estonia wishes to harmonise its penal policy with that of other countries of the European Union. That is indeed the main objective.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U88	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U89	Thank you. My colleague, I would like to clarify the question of Mrs Inara Luigas. Here are two tables, I understand that the fine by Estonia is 400 euros. But how much do you have to pay in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U90	It's now 400 euros and it's growing to 1,200. If an amount of EUR 10000.32000 is detected at the border, the fine will increase three times: from EUR 400 to EUR 1200. If the amount exceeds EUR 32000, it is a criminal offence and the situation is quite different.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U91	Please, Mr Luigas, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U92	Thank you. Honourable waitress! If Estonia still has a relatively low penalty rate compared to, for example, Lithuania and Latvia, could there not be a situation where cash smugglers will use our border gates?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U93	This fine must be in line with our other fines and sanctions policy. I think it's fit into the general ensemble. But if I look at how many of these violations have been in this table, we don't know what the percentage of getting caught is, it doesn't seem to be a very big problem. And I believe that thanks to the possibility of criminalising the new law, we will also reduce this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U94	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Aas. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 515 amendments. a on 26 November 2010 at 5 p.m. First reading of Bill 515 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U95	The last item on our agenda is the amendment of the Riigikogu's decision 'Construction of the Riigikogu' of the Riigikogu decision 'Construction of the Riigikogu Committee on Inquiry' of the VEB Foundation' draft 511. For a presentation, I would like to ask my colleague, Rainer Vakra, the Chairman of the Committee on Inquiry on the processing and settlement of claims brought together by the VEB Fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U96	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu Research Committee established by the Riigikogu decision of 12 March 2013 to determine the circumstances of processing and satisfying the VEB Foundation's claims has held 20 sessions and heard 28 people. In the course of this, we have received new references to the persons and documents concerned, and the Commission decided by consensus that we would like to extend the deadline for the work of the VEB Foundation Commission until 7 April 2014. That's for two reasons. First of all, the Commission wants additional time for additional hearings and documentary checks. We intend to invite ten people to the interview and listen. Secondly, at the same time as our Commission, our cooperation partner, the National Audit Office, is carrying out its audit, which has promised to complete its work by March 2014. Our committee is unanimous, which is also based on the opinion of the political groups that the final assessment of what has happened could be made not by the audit of the National Audit Office, but by the relevant Riigikogu commission. This would be an official point in one of the most interesting banking stories of our recent history, from which several books have been written and conspiracy theories have been developed. So the topic would not sum up the audit of the National Audit Office, but the Riigikogu Research Committee. The audit of the National Audit Office would be only one input to this committee. We are asking for this decision to be supported and for the deadline to be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U97	Thank you very much, Mr Vakra. You have questions. Let's start with Mr Rein Aidmas.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U98	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I read the draft decision amending point 5 of the decision, which concludes with five words: 'after which his powers shall cease'. Now, as an old-school man, I'm gonna hesitate to have one or two P's, because I can't figure out if the mandate ends or ends. How do you appreciate that last word?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U99	Very good! I have always enjoyed the questions of linguistics and orthographics in Estonian. I think it is also right, as it is written here: after 7 April 2014, the mandate of our Commission will end. This means that we are handing over the report, which in turn means that this Commission will not come together again.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U100	Please, my colleague Arto Aas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U101	Thank you. Honourable waitress! How convinced are you that the Commission will actually complete its work by that date? Perhaps you think it's likely to be extended again by a few months or six months or one year, and this bike won't stop? Or are you convinced today that it will be possible to draw a line in the time remaining and to consider this subject to be over?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U102	We have discussed this together with all the members of the committee and, more generally, we have consulted with the National Audit Office. We are convinced that this is the final deadline. It can be said that, in principle, we do not see any possibility of extending it again. So, in brief, by 7 April 2014, this report simply needs to be prepared.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U103	Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U104	Thank you. Here's the question. I understand that your committee is looking for an important'sayer' and you have turned to some structures in the country to help find the businessman Matt. How do you expect the country to find him?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U105	That's right. Indeed, we have addressed both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Police and Border Guard Board to help us find a businessman, Alexander Matti, who is indeed the only person of all 28 calls who has not shown up. We're trying to find this citizen, following all our laws. We have written requests for help, we hope that these authorities will respond and give us all the help we can.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U106	Please, Mr Kadri Simson, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U107	Thank you. Can the Minister of the Interior also contact Interpol for help?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U108	Thank you for your question. I think that's a good idea, why not? And our committee can also ask the Minister of the Interior personally for help.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U109	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Vakra. Now I would like to ask Mr Peep Aru, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, for a presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U110	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, The Constitutional Committee discussed the draft submitted to amend the Riigikogu decision 511 this year on 4 November. Rainer Vakra was present as the representative of the initiator, who said that this decision seeks to extend the deadline for submitting the final report on the work of the Riigikogu's committee of inquiry set up to find out the circumstances of the VEB Foundation's accumulated claims and satisfaction and to set a new deadline for submitting the final report by 7 April 2014. When the Commission was set up, the deadline for the submission of the final report on the outcome of the work was 2 December 2013. The previous speaker on this board explained why the Commission came up with such an initiative, and I am not going to explain it here. We made some decisions. First of all, the decision to put the draft on the agenda of the plenary session today was taken by consensus. Secondly, we suggest that we stop reading the draft at the first time, and it was for 4, against 2 people. With consensus, we decided to propose a deadline of 15 November at 4 p.m. for amendments and to appoint me to appear on this board, and we also unanimously made such a forward decision that, if the first reading of the draft was completed today, the final vote could be held on 21 November 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U111	Thank you very much, Mr Peep Aru. You have a question from colleague Valeri Korb. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U112	Thank you. Good colleague! This story with the VEB Foundation has been going on for a long time. Do you mean that on 7 April the Commission is still going to stop working on this? Do you have enough time or not enough?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U113	You are personally convinced that you will be able to propose amendments. I'll use my right, too, if I think it's necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-12_U114	No further questions. Thank you once again, Mr Peep Aru. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for submitting draft 511 amendments. 15 November 2010 at 4 p.m. First reading of Bill 511 is complete. Ladies and gentlemen, our agenda is exhausted. I'll be waiting for you in this hall tomorrow. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 11.39 a.m.
