ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Members of the Riigikogu. Good afternoon, honourable Members of the Government. I am pleased to tell you that we are starting the last briefing in 2013. Please, let's do the presence check first! 38 members of the Riigikogu were registered as present and 63 members of the Riigikogu are absent. Today's Question Hour is attended by the Minister of Defence, Urmas Reinsalu, Prime Minister, Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science, and Juhan Parts, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications. Let's get to the questions. Ladies and gentlemen, we have five previously registered issues. Again, only two on-the-spot questions can be submitted for each subject. I hope that we will then be able to discuss all these issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U2	Let's get to the first question. My colleague, Mailis Reps, has a question for the Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aavikkool.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U3	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Dear Minister for Education and Science, A week ago, in the Riigikogu hall, we were able to listen to you as well as to the representatives of teachers and local governments on the subject of general education. It was then very clear from your point of view that there will be no major changes in the financing of general education from 1 January. It is clear today that the coalition is actually discussing the introduction of a new financing system from 1 January. I am asking you to inform the members of the Riigikogu of the fundamental changes that will be implemented from 1 January.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U4	Thank you, good questioner! When the Riigikogu processed the draft law on basic school and upper secondary school in the spring, it was understood that the funding paragraph, or § 82 of the PGS, could come to the Riigikogu for discussion in the autumn. At the moment, this is a change in the PGS funding parameter in the government's coordination circle. It is quite clear that this change will not get here before Christmas, but I hope we can discuss it together in January. This in turn means that the amendments to the financing clause of the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act can enter into force from 1 September 2014 or 1 January 2015. Consequently, the 2014 education allowance for local authorities is allocated on the basis of the law in force and there are no fundamental changes to the scheme in this respect. According to the current law, money is distributed on the basis of the number of students you know. We know that a single bounty across the country of Estonia is unreasonable, because the educational costs in smaller municipalities are much higher. Therefore, the practice has been that smaller local authorities have been sought to support. The principle highlighted by the Ministry of Education in the press release that has just been distributed is that 2014 is a transitional period. We are based on the level of funding for the two previous years, given the changes in the number of students and the additional money.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U5	Please, my colleague, Mailis Reps, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U6	Thank you, Honourable Chairwoman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! You two minutes were up before you finished your answer. I would like to clarify, based on this press release as well. Can you point out the principles? Is the limit up to 5%, or what fluctuations in funding could hit one or another municipality and school next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U7	Several people, based on their level of information, have spread rather worrying rumors that the funding rates for teachers' salaries in local authorities in 2014 could fall by tens of percent. Such fears are clearly unfounded. I stress the basic principles, because there are still negotiations on the details. The main principles are as follows: This level of funding per student, which was in 2012 and 2013, should be maintained as a starting point. Secondly, as the number of students increases, the money has to come up, as the number decreases, the money has to be reduced. It is currently the case that two municipalities, Haapsalu and Jõgeva, where state secondary schools were set up, no upper secondary school allowance and there is a considerable reduction. In all other municipalities, there is a possible reduction in funding, even if the number of students is significantly reduced by less than 5%. But in total, there are 90% of all municipalities where funding is growing. If we try to describe the overall shift, now less money per teacher has been allocated to smaller local authorities, but we want to strengthen the financing of basic schools for smaller municipalities and to strengthen the financing of larger centres for upper secondary schools. These are two political inputs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U8	Please, my colleague, Mailis Reps, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U9	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Can you explain the situation where there are some rather skinny upper secondary schools in the local government? You do not want to say that changes are being made to the financing model, so let us say that small adjustments are being made. Have you also taken into account the situation where local authorities have to have time to undertake these reorganisations during the same year? How much has this been taken into account in these models?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U10	The models for the current year are known to be two: an eight-month model and a four-month model. We are trying to assume that the situation will not deteriorate compared to the four-month model. But it is quite clear that schools with a small upper secondary school section and local authorities who support them must seriously consider the feasibility of this upper secondary school section in the long term. Support from the state is not enough to support the upper secondary school with less than 100 students. But we still have negotiations on the maintenance rate of the upper secondary school. I think there are different situations. There are small upper secondary schools with clear reasons for their existence. There are schools where the decision to lose upper secondary school is already accepted, and we are looking for transitional formulas. I don't want to hit everyone in here with one rod. You have to look at the school one by one.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U11	Two locally registered questions can now be submitted. Please, Mr. Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U12	Thank you. Dear Minister of Education, You mentioned that § 82 of the Basic Schools and Upper Secondary Schools Act is on the coordination circle of the Government of the Republic. At the beginning of this year, the section on financing education had to be removed from the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act, because there were not enough votes in the Riigikogu to support it. What have you given up compared to the spring version if you assume that this bill will be passed in the Riigikogu as a law?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U13	Thank you, good questioner! There was no problem with the votes, there was a time problem and there was a desire to discuss the matter more substantively. I think it was the right decision. So the coalition hasn't wavered about it, we'll make up our minds once and for all. We have something to discuss. We'll start the new year, and we'll probably make it by midsummer.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U14	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U15	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! You have said that there are a lot of schools in Estonia that are relatively empty, where there is a barn, but there are few students and teachers. Does the Ministry have any kind of plan to go to the local governments to help them to reconcile "rooms" and content so that they can sustainably engage in education?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U16	Thank you. I think that we need to go first and foremost when local power and reason are lacking for objective reasons. The Basic Schools and Upper Secondary Schools Act and the Education Act provide unambiguously that the maintenance of general education schools, in particular the maintenance of basic schools and all related, including the design of the comprehensive school network, is the responsibility of the local government. It is true that in many cases this task has been beyond the authority's control. We know that there is now a school in Estonia where people go to work and money is spent, but where no students are taught. I do not know whether the state should intervene vigorously or whether the local government should be allowed to come to an understanding of what to do with this school. But if you look at it in the long term, there is about twice as much space in primary schools in Estonia as needed. Twice as much! There are schools with more than a hundred square feet of this area per student. Clearly, we need to make decisions on how to proceed. We have also planned to support core schools from the Structural Funds, not only to support the organisation of the upper secondary school network, but also to support basic schools in order to bring the situation into line with needs, particularly where the long-term sustainability of primary school is ensured. It is likely that a concrete plan will be needed before Midsummer Day to support local authorities in the restructuring of schools.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U17	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U18	The next question is put by my colleague, Urve Palo, Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U19	Thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. On 28 October 2011, the financial director of Eesti Energia said that the new oil shale oil plant Enefit 280 will be launched in spring 2012. It is the end of 2013, but the new plant is still not working. It is estimated that the monthly stagnation will mean EUR 4 million per month. Can you confirm that? When could the oil shale oil plant start working? Do you consider it appropriate to have a technology partnership with Outotec, from whom this kettle, which currently has very many problems, was also acquired? Is there a plan to build more than three oil plants, as was the original plan?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U20	Please ask me one question in one minute!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U21	I will remind the good questioner that I am no longer the general meeting of Eesti Energia, which is due to the rules of the European Union that the core network and producers must be separated. But as far as I've gotten information from the companies, I'll share it with you. I think the financial director's sentence you quoted was just a financial director's sentence. He was too optimistic about the length of the start-up period. We would all have liked the launch to have gone much faster and all the innovations resulting from the improvement of technology, in cooperation with Outotec, a German-Finnish engineering company, would have been introduced much faster. As the company has informed me, the current situation is that the start-up process is on schedule. In some weeks, the device has been operating at 50% capacity, with a maximum of 85%. When can it be said that the start-up is complete and that the device is operating on the normal operating cycle? I hope you can say that next year. We just have to adjust our expectations, I think that makes sense. I'm not making my assessment. It has been the company's decision that as much modern knowledge as possible has been involved in technology development. I'm not judging whether it was right or wrong. Before you say anything like that, you need a more thorough approach.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U22	Please, my colleague Urve Palo, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U23	Thank you. The Estonian state has given Eesti Energia money for investments consistently. Last year, EUR 150 million was granted, this year, as far as I know, EUR 100 million (you can adjust me) in order to build the Narva plant to produce oil shale electricity. However, if we look ahead to the National Development Plan for the Energy Economy from 2020, we will see that oil shale electricity, as such, does not appear there at all, because its production is too expensive. Then why are we building this plant?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U24	What development plan did you quote? The National Development Plan for Estonia's Energy Economy is currently in force until 2020, which has been approved by the Riigikogu. It foresees that two oil shale power plants with a capacity of 300 MW will be invested until 2020. One construction is ongoing, another construction will be decided by the company in the spring of next year, so long this option will last. We will draw up a development plan for the energy economy until 2030 and beyond. The development of the energy portfolio must certainly be re-evaluated, as is the case with development plans. I can tell you that the most competitive new investment is now an investment in solid fuel, just as it is in Narva. None of the other industrial forms of electricity production based on raw materials are more competitive. Whether it remains competitive and what is the competitive outlook for this investment over more than 30 years, we will see that in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U25	Please, my colleague Urve Palo, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U26	Thank you. I'm talking about the development plan for the energy economy. This morning there was a debate on this topic in the Parliament's Sustainable Energy Support Group, and I suggest you also look at it. This development plan does not foresee a future for oil shale electricity. But my third question concerns foreign investments in Eesti Energia, especially investments in the United States. One could say that high-risk investments are like gambling in a casino. I would like to know when the losses will be cut, when they will be removed from the United States and when there will be no more additional investments. It is clear that oil shale energy is not federally supported in the United States and, after shale gas is introduced, there is also a shortage of energy in America.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U27	I will correct the introduction to your question. There are all kinds of development plans, projects and ideas on the future energy portfolio. Estonia has joined the International Energy Agency. I myself spent two days in Paris in November and represented Estonia. It presented the world's energy prospects 20 years later. Globally, the largest source of electricity production is solid fuel (coal, oil shale and why not biomass). That's the global picture. Of course, if we manage to figure out some smarter and better technology, then we should be flexible, but there is no such technology right now. That's the situation. Don't believe it when one or the other puts his illusions on paper. We must be guided by the fact that the price is competitive so that we do not strangle our business and people. Security of supply must be guaranteed in the long term and we must strengthen environmental standards. Speaking of investments in America, I have to say that you could stop using the word 'casino'. In my opinion, the issue at stake is more important for Estonia than perhaps at first glance. This concerns the future of the oil shale industry in the world. I think we would do wisely as a nation if we were to try to deidelogise the potential of oil shale, both as oil and as raw material for the chemical industry, even in this hall, whether they sit on the left side of the hall or in the middle of it. I think this is one of the potential growth opportunities of the Estonian economy. Currently, the US project is in the pre-development phase. I have not received any information from the company that it does not go according to the planned plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U28	Now two issues registered on the spot. Please, Mr Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U29	Thank you. Good minister! I ask you about the time you were in the role of the Estonian Energy General Meeting. During this period Eesti Energia made a lot of investments. Urve Palo has already talked about foreign investments; in addition, we can mention the construction of the fragmentation complex of the Estonian mine, the construction of a waste plant and the construction of a timber delivery system in Narva. That list's pretty long. Do you consider the risks taken by the company while you were at the general meeting of this company to be necessary and reasonable?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U30	Sure. You just mentioned three investments, I heard you mention the construction of a waste plant. I think this is an economically sound investment. See what has happened in Tallinn at a warm price. But in addition, nature lovers, as we are, we should, in my opinion, rejoice at the fact that garbage is no longer trampled into the ground in Estonia, but that there is some primary possibility of recycling waste, even if it is not possible to use it to produce higher added value. Actually, it's a sin that we didn't do it for 20 years. There has been talk of some small cogeneration plants where certain risks have materialised, but they are relatively marginal given the size of the company and the investment portfolio. I really have no reason to believe at this point in the case of one investment or another that any significant risks have materialised so that we should talk about losses.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U31	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U32	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! While the big investments in Eesti Energia started here, I mean the oil factory, the new power plant and smaller things abroad, Eesti Energia did an effective job. For a year, he worked on going to the stock market. Due to the opposition of the Reform Party, Eesti Energia was not placed on the stock market at that time. Have you thought about what the price of Eesti Energia's share might be like now in the light of the state of these investments? I've been thinking about it. Do you dare say it when you think about it? Would that stock be up or down, under water or on water?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U33	I think that you will get the right answer to this question when you analyse the shares of Central European energy companies with more or less the same profile on other exchanges. I am talking about energy companies in Poland, the Czech Republic and many other countries, I am not talking about energy companies on the western stock markets. We need to assess the company's profile and lines of action. In general, energy companies are currently quite attractive to investors. When we discussed the exchange of Eesti Energia in 2010, we actually made a joint decision by the government. The question was how to finance various investment programmes. I think we could have made another decision, just the economic environment would have been different. Perhaps the major macroeconomic effects would have been more beneficial for the Estonian economy; the company would certainly be much more transparent than the current shareholder structure. But I think the decision was made with caution. It was a decision taken jointly by the government.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U34	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U35	The next question is from my colleague, Yana Toom, Minister for Education and Science Jaak Aavikkool. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U36	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Under the Study Allowances and Student Loan Act, no student allowance is paid if the family's income in the previous year exceeded the average income required to receive the required allowance. However, the calculation of the family's income on the basis of the income tax return of the previous year does not give any idea whether the family's income in the new year is the same or whether it is at all. What are you going to do to ensure that adequate data describing the student's daily livelihood are used as a basis for the provision of needs-based education support?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U37	Thank you. As we know, data are needed to assess the financial situation of the student and his family. Of course, we do not receive data on the future or the present moment; we always get data on the backwards. When developing the support system, it was necessary to choose which period to base. Why did we base the previous financial year? There are two reasons for this. Firstly, such data are available nationally and no additional data need to be collected. In this case, much more money will remain for grants, because when you start collecting additional data, people will have to be hired and therefore a certain amount of potential support will be lost. That's one reason. The second reason is that if we create a system based on data from the previous month or week, I do not know what you meant, it is extremely difficult to control these data. Of course, the economic situation of the family may change within one year, but it may also change within one month, it may change even within one week. Therefore, a small buffer has been left to universities to deal with such exceptions. That's one. Secondly, it must be borne in mind that the economic situation can improve and may get worse, with the average being the same for all.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U38	Please, Mr Toom, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U39	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, When applying for needs-based education allowance, the student's family members are considered to be the biological parents, minor sisters, brothers, half-sisters and siblings of a student of up to 24 years of age. The basis for determining income support, however, is a household using income sources together, such as foster parents, and not biological parents, when the parents are separated. Why was it decided to base needs-based education support on biological parents rather than on a jointly managed household?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U40	Indeed, it is possible to base the assessment of the household on a household basis or on a family basis. This choice is indeed political, if that is the case, although it is hopefully not political, but general policy. Taking family as a basis, it is easier to identify incomes and it is difficult to manipulate these data. At the same time, the household is defined more softly. There is no other way to determine the actual composition of the household than to visit the household and see whether it actually exists or exists only on paper. It should be taken into account that the procedure for registering residence in Estonia is quite loose and for various reasons you can re-register yourself even a hundred times during the year, depending on whether you need free public transport in Tallinn, educational support in Tartu or income support in some third municipalities. These are the reasons why we chose to benefit the family. We are convinced that this definition will be more functional and will allow greater funding to be distributed to those in need.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U41	Please, Mr Toom, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U42	Madam President! Good minister! You have now questioned the whole of our social system with your speech. But that's it. The need-based education allowance is based on the assumption that parents will support their student child up to the age of 24. The explanatory memorandum states that in the population register data, every child is related to the parents. There may also be cases where the parents are divorced, but according to the records, the parents are still identifiable and we expect both of them to support their child. However, it is clear in the Family Act chapter entitled "Maintenance obligations arising from an upbringing' that any child must be supported from the age of 18 to the age of 21 when he or she is studying in a secondary school or vocational training institution. What, then, do we rely on, assuming that parents support their student child for so long, if, for example, the court only assigns alimony until the child reaches the age of 18?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U43	Thank you, good questioner! Of course, we can imagine that we live in a world where the only obligations come from the law. However, I am convinced that not only myself but also all the others in this Chamber have either supported or been prepared to support their student children until the end of their studies, in accordance with economic opportunities, of course. If you really consider it necessary that this obligation should be laid down by law, such a bill may be initiated and processed in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U44	Let's get to the issues registered on the spot. Please, Mr Kalvi Tough!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U45	Thank you, good Chairman of the Riigikogu! Good minister! We know that when we developed and started implementing a needs-based learning support system, we assumed that the students asking for this support were much more than there were really applicants for this support. Have you thought about additional measures or activities to invite students who should receive needs-based education support to apply for it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U46	Thank you, good questioner! Indeed, our initial assessment was that such support could be applied for and also received from around 39% of students. The actual situation was that around 33% of students started submitting the application, but part of them withdrew for various reasons during the procedure. Finally, 2270 persons, or only 16% of students, received student support. After the results were found, we carried out a study which could be summarised as follows: Apparently, not all students who would have been entitled to this support received the necessary information. This is particularly true for students in master's studies who did not realize that they were admissions, as well as for students entering a Bachelor's degree. That's one reason. Another reason may be that the application environment has, for some reason, deterred people. We were able to check the records of many people who stopped applying. A large number of them would have benefited from this support if they had submitted a request. We are planning a campaign at the beginning of the new academic year. In addition, there is a draft initiated by your group in the proceedings before the Riigikogu, to which we are jointly prepared to make improvements in order to eliminate individual shortcomings and hopefully to achieve the level that we should reach on the basis of our assessment: every third student should receive needs-based support.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U47	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U48	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. Indeed, if 33% of students started applying and only 16% received this support, there are probably several reasons. This support is necessary for them, but under these conditions they will not receive it. Doesn't it seem to you that the word 'need-based' doesn't work very well on the basis of last year's income tax return? I can say that, although I am not very satisfied with the need-based family benefits system, it is still better, because it is still based on previous months' income. You see, some people may have really had a need for support a year ago, but now the situation has changed, but on the basis of last year's data, they still receive this support. This is not, in fact, need-based support. Aren't you planning to change the basis of the tax return for the previous year?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U49	Once again, you are actually calling for a rather powerful additional bureaucracy. I do not support this proposal for the simple reason that none of this is free. The transition from annual to monthly calculation of the grant would be estimated to make the number of beneficiaries less than 10%. Yes, this 10% is between the gears one year, but in the second year their material situation may improve, but they still receive this support. To spend a substantial amount of support money on this calculation is not feasible in our opinion. I have answered that question as well. Perhaps it would be wise to look at what the practice will be like for a few years and to come back to this subject when specific analyses can be carried out, how many are still caught by gears and whose situation has changed dramatically. As I have already pointed out, there are certain buffers in higher education institutions, which hopefully will smooth out more inconsistencies, and if we do not level it, we will come back to it. Right now, it's just a speculative proposal. The Ministry of Education, after several studies, which were carried out partly on the initiative of members of the Riigikogu, is still of the opinion that this does not make sense. It makes sense to continue with a small bureaucracy and automatic system.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U50	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U51	The next question is from colleague Kalev Eagle to Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U52	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Minister of Economic Affairs! The Government Office has made a fundamental decision to organise ferry traffic from 2016 so that the ships belong to the State and the operator is found in competition. Until then, there are two years and two weeks. Will it be possible to prepare and conduct a public procurement procedure for the design and construction of four new ferry ships and to prepare and conduct a public procurement procedure to find an operator for these ships, if they do not yet exist?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U53	Thank you. The current operating agreement will be in force until 1 October 2016. You have mentioned this deadline for the beginning of the year before, but it will be ten months before the right deadline. The Port of Tallinn is currently preparing a public competition, not only for the design and construction of ships, but also for the purchase of ships. What is the timetable for preparing the post-2016 operator competition, which can be discussed in more detail when we have the results of the competition on the table. In general, if we look at the construction of three new ships so far, it has taken 2.5 to 3.5 years. There's still time. But I think we know more specifically what cooperation will be like in the next two or three years, when we have the results of this competition. We hope to get them in the first half of next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U54	Please, Mr Kalev Eagle, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U55	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, If in a year's time we find ourselves in a situation where the only suitable ships available on the market will still have to be acquired from the current operator, how will you assess the position of the state in this situation? Who dictates the price to whom?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U56	Frankly, I didn't understand the beginning of this question, but I'm trying to answer as much as I can. The owners of new ships are not operators; the owners are different persons. They can participate in a public competition organised by the Port of Tallinn. Whether they do or not, it's really hard for me to say. I can assure you that the owners of the existing three new ships have already indicated to the State that they are willing to sell these ships to the State. Is their will the same? I think we can talk about this once the public competition is announced and we see the decision of the owners.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U57	Please, Mr Kalev Eagle, the second point to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U58	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Do you plan to use the same scheme to communicate with Vormsi, Kihnu and Ruhnu that the ships belong to the state, while the operator is found by competition?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U59	Not only are you mentioned, but we need a shipbuilding programme for all the smaller islands. The state builds suitably designed ships, given the demand for both car and passenger transport, ice class, draught. The ships belong to the State and the State is looking for operators through a public competition. This will also be the case for Kihnu and Vormsi, which are currently being built on behalf of the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U60	Now the questions registered on the spot. Please, Mr Kalle Laane!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U61	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Exactly a year ago, the 2013 state budget was discussed in this Chamber. As a result of the political compromises, it was decided to make a dedicated allocation between Heltermaa and Rohuküla and Virtsu between August and October 2013 in the budget line of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has so far failed to comply with this decision. Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U62	That is absolutely not true, Mr Laane. The Ministry of Economic Affairs has fulfilled this decision in full and more. This 600000 euro was allocated to the joint decision of all the political groups of the Riigikogu in order to reduce the price adjustment planned at the time, i.e. the price increase. As a result of this decision, the tariff rose significantly less than the economic situation would have foreseen. This was the decision of the Riigikogu and we have fully implemented it. For information, I will tell the other members of the Riigikogu in particular, because I believe that you know the details that ferry connections with Saaremaa and Hiiumaa are financed from two sources: state budget subsidy and ticket revenue. Ticket revenues are estimated each year on the basis of an increase in passenger numbers. If there are more passengers for some reason, ticket revenues will be received by the State and the State will therefore be able to make the necessary decisions. There is no obligation to give anyone more income from tickets so that it remains with the State and that the State can make plans for this connection in the coming years.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U63	The last issue registered on the ground, Mr Kaljuvee, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U64	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! I'm sorry, but I haven't really been able to figure out what this mess is for. The system is working, and I think it's pretty normal. Why does the state need these ships? Is it in the interests of the client or the state? Is it going to work badly in economic terms now? Does it change the purchase of ships for the good of the economy, or does it change something for the customers who drive these ships, or does something seriously improve the state or ship's captains?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U65	Thank you. By the way, I agree with you. In fact, the quality of service has improved considerably. I praise the Saaremaa Shipping Company, Liine of the Väinamere Sea. I congratulate those investors who have invested in new ships, I personally congratulate Vyacheslav Leedo. I also commend the Ministry of Economic Affairs. In fact, this quality is really excellent; we have achieved this joint work. But here's the problem: who's gonna pay for all this? If you agree that subsidies will increase quite significantly at the expense of teachers' salaries, pensions, child benefits and everything else, then we probably have nothing to do and we can continue with the tradition that we are organising competitions, although there are no real competitions. As a result of the analysis, the Ministry of Economic Affairs has concluded that the capital costs of ships are currently significantly higher than if the State invested in ships and infrastructure. Here's the catch. If the state does not invest in these ships, I predict that in 2016, there will be a competition as usual, but unfortunately, the amount that comes here when the budget is approved will only appeal to one person, not to the other 130,000 people. That's the problem. It is certainly not worth looking for a solution as a criticism of the existing service. This service is remarkably good. Even some foreign acquaintances have asked me why we have already established communism when we communicate with Saaremaa and Hiiumaa. That's the way it's been asked, the service is so good. But we know what will happen in October 2016 if we do not take action here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U66	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U67	The next question is from my colleague, Priit Toobal, to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Last Thursday, the cabinet received confirmation from Estonian Air's leaders that the previous management of the airline spent a total of EUR 200000 on the 2012 hockey MM. Some time earlier, in an interview you had told the journalist of the Estonian Päevaleht that Estonian Air spent 100,000 euros on the Ice Hockey World Championship. Why did you tell the public that this was half the amount? Did you knowingly do this, or did you really not know how much Estonian Air spent on the World Ice Hockey World in 2012?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U69	Thank you again for raising this issue. This issue is very topical. The actual amount would be known if you read the company's press release very accurately. At the request of the public, the company has made a very thorough press release to introduce the company's marketing strategy and advertising projects. The actual advertising costs for hockey MM are EUR 90000. So now try to put a third figure in your brain at EUR 90,000. True, in addition to this EUR 90000, the company had marketing activities in Estonia and elsewhere for EUR 110000. This is stated in the official press release of the company. I have no reason to believe that the company is not telling the truth. He has no reason to hide anything. Secondly, the share of these advertising costs at that time was 10 to 15%. The public has been talking about a much greater proportion, even in half. However, if we want to talk about facts, these are the facts. Read the press release published by this company last Thursday, which gives a fairly detailed overview of the starting points for their advertising activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U70	Please, Mr Toobal, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U71	Thank you. I quote the words of Estonian Air's spokesperson: 'It took EUR 90000 for the licence fee for the use of the ice hockey logo, which gave the airline the right to advertise itself through the sports competition. The remaining money, a total of EUR 110000, was spent on advertising itself, such as the logos placed on the borders of the hockey field, painting one of the Hockey Bird aircraft in paints and participating in hockey events. ' That money wasn't spent on anything but the same World Cup. 110000 + 90000 = EUR 200000. That's how I read it. But here's the question. I know that you have vehemently opposed the way the Port of Tallinn has wanted to support Estonian sport, or the Olympic Committee. I haven't heard your point of view on how Estonian Air sponsored the hockey World Cup. What do you think of this EUR 200000? How do you feel about this sum? Did you think it was enough, or was it perhaps too small a sum?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U72	Interestingly, you read pages with a glass every morning, but you have not read a very thorough interview that I gave to the Estonian Päevaleht. Once again, the conflict of interest of the Port of Tallinn (it is a very fundamental conflict of interest, it is not fictitious) and the advertising activities of Estonian Air are absolutely not comparable. I have no doubt that Estonian Air's management at the time made a professional choice, deciding whether and by what method to advertise itself to one market or another and to one client or another. The personal question is that if the strategy has been incomplete and the financial results have been poor, every cost, Delfi banner or any advertising that has been made in Estonia, Germany, Sweden or Lithuania, wherever, can be criticised. Any cost can be criticised if the strategy has been incomplete. To be honest, the only thing that Estonian Air achieved with this strategy and that is why we should also assess this period, perhaps from a slightly different perspective, was a significant increase in passenger numbers. Macroeconomically, the Estonian economy as a whole had a positive impact. However, this does not mean that the company does not have to be profitable and does not have to seek profit opportunities.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U73	Please, Mr Toobal, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U74	Thank you. This is not another point of clarification, but I will come back to my first question, to which you did not answer, but you accused me of misunderstanding and lying. I have read to you how Estonian Air has commented on the use of these EUR 200000. I repeat that you claim that EUR 100000 has been spent, while Estonian Air has said that EUR 200000 has been spent. When you said in an interview to the Estonian Daily Newspaper that 100,000 euros were spent, did you knowingly lie or did you not know the truth?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U75	The journalist asked me how much Estonian Air paid to the Finnish Ice Hockey Association, similar to what the port paid to the Olympic Committee. Estonian Air did not pay anything to the Finnish Ice Hockey Association. Estonian Air paid EUR 90000 to the International Ice Hockey Federation in order to advertise itself at an international sports competition, giving it the opportunity to advertise itself on a number of products. In addition, Estonian Air carried out an independent marketing activity related to this sporting event for EUR 110000. I hope you understood my answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U76	Two issues registered on-the-spot. Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U77	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. I'm asking a more general question. As we know, many Estonian companies have gone to foreign capital and foreign capital has little interest in supporting Estonian sport. There is currently a huge lack of money in Estonian sport. Could state companies support Estonian sport or are you fundamentally opposed to it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U78	The Act of the Republic of Estonia states that state-owned companies can only engage in sponsorship in order to achieve the company's business and financial objectives. Consequently, if the company considers it reasonable to cooperate with the Olympic Committee, sports federations or cultural organisations in order to achieve its business and financial objectives, this is, of course, acceptable. The problem is that sponsoring must support the business goals of the company, whatever and how the Estonian state-owned company supports. Of course, decisions must be transparent and there must be an inherent conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U79	Please, Mr Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U80	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! In my opinion, it is wrong and also pathetic that the first man in such a large and important ministry, Minister, has been working every day for the last two months on how state companies finance sport. After all, this has been done in the Republic of Estonia for 20 years and more; in my opinion, everything is basically right here. The nuances have been laid down in the law. How do you think it's been that you have to answer these questions every day? Who's to blame?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U81	It's your fault now, because you asked the question. By the way, this is the first time I am dealing with this issue in this Chamber. I am very grateful that this issue has been raised. I think we should talk about it exactly the way things really are. We do not have state companies, we have state-owned companies. You have, in my opinion, set very correct objectives by means of legislation yourself and these must be borne in mind.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U82	Ladies and gentlemen, We still have a little time, but we have to treat everyone equally. Two on-the-spot questions have been submitted.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U83	If there is a wish, questions can now be asked to anyone from the ministers present. Starts with my colleague Tiina Lokk-Tramberg. Tell me, please, who do you want to ask a question to?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U84	Thank you, President-in-Office. I would like to ask Mr Parts a question. It's about sponsorship. I have already noticed several times that you only talk about corporate sponsorship as a business-enhancing and contact-enhancing action. But it's just a one-sided sponsorship approach. Don't you mean, for example, the Mayanesponsorship? Let me give you an example. The E-Betone Element could only sponsor companies or events related to concrete, taking into account your approach. For example, sponsoring PÖFF doesn't promote his business in any way.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U85	Thank you for that question. You've probably misunderstood me a little. The company's business and financial objectives are certainly broader, including the issue of reputation, why not also social contributions. But all of this must definitely coincide with the logic of the company's overall strategy. There's a lot of good international practice here. The OECD has issued recommendations for state-owned companies as well as for private companies. I have been thinking of this particular broader approach. However, whatever this approach is, it is quite clear that the sponsor takes responsibility and should assume that a conflict of interest is excluded. Sponding is not just charity, money transfer, but the sponsor takes responsibility that can only be assumed if there is no inherent conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U86	The last question is asked by my colleague Kalvi Tough. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U87	Thank you, Mr President. My question is to Minister for Defence Urmas Reinsalu, who is in charge of the Prime Minister today. We know that in the budget of the end of the year, the Ministry of Defence has some items that are not owned by the Ministry of Defence, but which were financed by the Ministry of Defence's budget. For example, funds were provided for repairs to the roof of the Nurs village centre in Rõuge municipality. Thank you. What are the objects hidden behind these lines in the budget for next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U88	Thank you. There is nothing hidden, it is taking place in accordance with the principles of civil-military cooperation. This certainly does not take place on the basis of arbitrary decisions, but on the basis of how the Ministry of Defence can better implement national defence objectives in cooperation with local communities. These decisions have been taken to improve bilateral cooperation and are based on a clear agreement on the basis of the amounts of the budget. As regards the specific agreements currently under way, it can be said that the budget appropriations are in general terms. I will have ministerial officials present an overview of this to a member of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U89	Thank you very much, Minister. Our time is coming to an end. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for asking me questions. Thank you very much for replying to the members of the government. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U90	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday of the 11th working week. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now possible to pass on drafts and enquiries. I request the representative of the Government of the Republic of Heili Tõnisson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U91	Madam Chairman! Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic submits a draft of the Riigikogu's decision 'Acceptance of the Transport Development Plan 2014 The Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts in the Riigikogu when the bill is being processed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U92	Thank you. Please, Mr Neeme the Great! Don't you want a word? That's weird! On behalf of the Bureau, I have adopted one draft decision. If the draft complies with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide to accept it within three working days. Now the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and has appointed leading committees for them. First of all, the Government of the Republic s. a draft law amending the Penal Code and other laws, initiated on 9 December, the commission of which is the Committee on Legal Affairs. Second, the Government of the Republic s. a a draft building code, initiated on 9 December, of which the commission is the Committee on Economic Affairs. Third, the Government of the Republic s. a draft law amending the Natural Gas Act, initiated on 9 December, of which the commission is the Committee on Economic Affairs. Fourth, the Government of the Republic s. a draft law amending the Electricity Market Act, initiated on 9 December, of which the commission is the Committee on Economic Affairs. Fifth, the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Land Tax Act, initiated on 9 December, of which the commission is the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Sixth, the government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Law on Credit Institutions, initiated on 9 December, and related to other laws, of which the commission is the Committee on Monetary Affairs. I have forwarded an inquiry into the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Please, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 94 members of the Riigikogu are absent.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U93	We will start working on the points on today's agenda. The first item on the agenda is the third reading of the draft law 460 on sworn translator initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. We can go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that we can start the final vote. All right! Since a majority of the composition of the Riigikogu is required for the adoption of this draft as a law, please let us do the verification of presence again! 95 members of the Riigikogu have been registered and no 6 members of the Riigikogu are present. Colleagues, may I have your attention, please? I will put to the final vote the draft law on sworn translator initiated by the Government of the Republic 460. Please vote! 94 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U94	The third reading of the draft Act amending the VAT Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I'm opening negotiations. I would first like to call on the speaker's desk as a representative of the Group of the Sven Sester Fatherland and Res Publica Alliance. Sorry, there are no negotiations yet. Sven Sester has a report. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U95	First of all, I'll talk about the bill itself. I will not dwell very long on the manner in which this bill came into Riigikogu proceedings. Let us remind you that this draft initially also dealt with the value added tax (VAT) for so-called company cars. Parliament excluded this issue from the draft at second reading because the keywords of this issue were haste, lack of impact analyses and lack of communication with stakeholders. Now we are discussing an annex to the VAT return. If this bill was ever brought to the Riigikogu, the representative of the Ministry of Finance said that there were signs of haste in the case of car taxation, but the subject of the VAT return has been thoroughly discussed. An example was also provided of the minutes of the meeting of the Government Committee on the Prevention of Tax Fraud at the beginning of September. When I looked at the minutes, I saw that representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and the Confederation of Employers attended this meeting. The protocol shows that the tax authority submitted proposals to the Commission to modernise the VAT control system. The tax authority proposed the introduction of an annex to the VAT return, which is required to provide electronically information on purchases and sales per transaction partner. It is clear from the minutes that the Commission discussed the potential risks associated with the project and considered that the risk analysis should describe the project's transition difficulties and ways of mitigating them. The Commission accepted the proposal and considered that this project needed to move forward as soon as possible. It's a passionate summary of this protocol. At the same time, business organisations and many professional associations have raised questions and doubts during the procedure. There are also rumors, and many activities require real answers. In a few words, I am talking about VAT as such. The state collects EUR 2.6 billion of VAT per year, of which 1.1 billion is refunded. There are 72000 people in Estonia who are subject to VAT. What is very interesting is that VAT is administered in Estonia in the way that businesses provide aggregated data. It is essentially a four-numbered figure. In principle, even an honest trader does not have the opportunity to check whether the seller has paid VAT or whether the honest trader is not used to participate in fraud. Also, according to current data, the state does not have the opportunity to verify that VAT has been paid. Last year, EUR 200 million was lost from VAT fraud, i.e. the so-called tax pit. This is not just an Estonian problem, but a pan-European one. An estimated 400000 reimbursement claims are made annually in Estonia, of which only 3% can be controlled by the state. Why so little? The current control activity is in many ways a collection of information, but more detailed information on VAT ensures that business-to-business sales are then more difficult to hide because the buyer has the incentive to reflect input VAT. An analogous example is forest transactions, where both buyers and sellers had to provide information. As a result, tax receipts increased three and a half times in 2007 compared to 2006. The administrative burden has already been discussed. Clearly, the overall impact must be taken into account when assessing the administrative burden. In recent years, the Tax Administration has developed services in such a way that businesses can increasingly carry out their transactions and enquiries through the e-Tax Board. It can be said that the number of office contacts has fallen by 40%. This information has been provided by the Tax Administration to the Committee on Monetary Affairs and the political groups. The Tax Administration has also confirmed that software manufacturers and e-invoice service providers are involved in the development of the VAT return supplement, with the aim of developing a form that does not create excessive complexity in the development of software programmes and which would prevent manual work from being added. Representatives of companies manufacturing financial software and companies providing accounting services have participated in discussions in the tax administration. Producers have confirmed that the solution to be developed can be completed within one month, which means that operators will then have seven to eight months to prepare for its implementation. I myself have been in contact with the leader of a large retail chain, who rather complained that this time may be too physically too short to make any possible changes to the information technology. The Tax and Customs Board has also engaged e-invoicing service providers in its discussions with the aim of giving impetus to e-invoicing transfers. The representatives of the Tax and Customs Board have said that there is no added value for economic operators in entering invoices. If we introduce an annex to the declaration, there will only be a small step from there to e-invoicing. For example, experts say that the current cost of a paper bill is up to EUR 1. We have also been interested in companies in the group that do not have an accounting programme. We have wondered how those who do accounting, for example, in the form of a spreadsheet in Excel should behave. The representatives of the Tax and Customs Board have said that it is necessary to adjust the Excel report, but it is a one-off adjustment. In addition, the Estonian Tax and Customs Board creates the software itself so that the data can be entered on their website according to the VAT return. Nevertheless, the political groups and the Committee on Monetary Affairs have received letters from a wide range of organisations: Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Estonian Taxpayers' Association, Auditor Assembly, EVEA, Service Economy Chamber, Estonian Traders' Association, etc. There have been different questions. If we approve this draft today, it seems to me and the entire IRL Group, where there have been very intense discussions over the last few weeks on the necessity of this draft and the related issues that, despite the adoption of the law, a number of issues remain to be raised. When discussing with the people of the Ministry of Finance and the Tax and Customs Board, we have come to the conclusion that we should perhaps come back to the Traders' Association proposal, which provides for a transaction partner-based system instead of the current personal system, and we should review the confidentiality requirements for lawyers. I want to say that if we adopt this draft as a law today, we have gone through some part of this process, but next year we will have to do this again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U96	Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U97	I will hold a presentation after the debate on another draft. At the moment, I am giving an overview of this draft in the eyes of our group. Just in case, three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U98	Thank you very much, Mr Sven Sester. I would like to ask my colleague Eiki Nestor to speak as a representative of the Social Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U99	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! This draft has received so much public attention that it is probably rude to state its position before the final vote. Therefore, let me be brief. The bill had two parts at first. Firstly, the issue of input VAT on passenger cars used by the company, which has now disappeared from the draft and which the Ministry of Finance will continue to deal with. In this respect, it can be said that, in the proposed form, it would probably not have generated the State as much revenue as it was expected. I am pleased to note that, after the public debate, other members of society, apart from our group, have also raised questions as to whether the way in which car taxation is proposed is really the easiest and most appropriate. I understand that politically, a word like 'auto tax' may seem like someone's identity theft, loss of wealth, or not know what it is. But it is well known that the vast majority of developed countries will use this tax in a completely reasonable and necessary way, and they will continue to do so in the future. However, it is really questionable whether some sort of driving diaries and calculations should be dealt with and verified and so on in order to increase the revenue of the State. We hope that the Ministry will be able to give this right idea the right content during the public debate. A much more complex issue is what we are now having in the final vote, i.e. declaring invoices of over EUR 1000. There are two issues raised here. Firstly, whether the fight against tax fraud in this way is a proportionate measure or not. After all, it is understandable that those taxpayers who pay the tax honestly will certainly find this requirement cumbersome and unpleasant to them and cause additional costs. Their protest is in some respects understandable, but it must also be borne in mind that the countable non-profit organisations representing these interests have said their clear words about this measure in the Committee on Government to combat tax fraud and have found that they could try. On the other hand, do not forget that the VAT hole, which is currently EUR 250 to 300 million, is not a boy either. Here, too, there are certain interests involved, which is why they are probably clearly stated somewhere. I believe that, in terms of proportionality, this is a draft that deserves to be supported. More complex, however, is the story of the part of the draft relating to the implementation of the commitments agreed in Europe. The VAT Directive, which we have to comply with, does not provide that the company's registration code will also be entered in the invoice. However, when we realise that this system does not work otherwise, we will make a change in this direction in the Accounting Act. Forgive me, but it is very questionable whether our accounting law may contain anything other than the VAT rules agreed across Europe. I really doubt it's possible. On the other hand, it also creates a contradiction between the VAT Act and the Accounting Act, and may cause the tax officer who controls the matter in the company to remain in a very stupid situation. The company has complied with the VAT law, but not with the Accounting Act. More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U100	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U101	In other words, the contradiction between the two laws can also put the country in a fool's position, and the result we have wanted is that we cannot. In the end, when looking at the tax practice, it may be mocked that the invoice maker asks the recipient whether it wants an invoice by the address and company name, as the VAT Act says, or by the registration code, as the Accounting Act says. There should not be such a legal gap in my opinion. So there is a big question as to whether an acceptable law meets the standards that we have agreed across Europe. On this basis, we will also act in the final vote. We hope that all the other groups will say their position here, and we will remain in doubt as to whether or not this law adopted by the power union will bring any benefits to the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U102	Thank you. Please, as representative of the Group of the Centre Party of Mr Aivar Riisalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U103	I will correct myself: those whom we must help must be helped, but often they cannot be helped. Your laughter was in the right place. Thank you, colleagues. My concern is deep. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U104	Madam Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen, This bill is, by its very nature, very necessary because the state needs money. The question, however, is that, in the case of this and some other recent draft legislation relating to the need to implement the state budget, a considerable problem has arisen in society, which I consider to be a sign of danger. Entrepreneurs have started to talk about the deterioration of the business environment. However, a good business environment, a liberal economy and also a liberal tax system have been one of the important engines of Estonia's success story. I recall that I and a number of my colleagues talked in the Chamber of Riigikogu about two years about how VAT fraud takes place in the fuel business. It took two years for the Riigikogu to adopt these regulations. I will not forget, until the hour of death, when the former colleague, who was then chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, who is currently serving as a minister, shouted from this very point of view when the changes made with a two-year delay had brought 1.5 billion kroons to the state budget, or roughly 100 million euros. This meant that for two years the Riigikogu was talking about the right thing, but nothing was done. It was purely a matter of VAT on fuel. Many businesses have now told stories about how tax fraud takes place in a number of areas. These frauds should be dealt with, because we know where the problems are. One of the most common techniques is that goods are bought in the customs zone without VAT and are placed on the market at significantly lower prices. From there, he's going the normal way, only one company disappears from time to time. It is very easy to disappear because we have a liberal mechanism for setting up and winding up businesses, and this can really be done without leaving the computer. This, too, is now turning into a disadvantage for us, because normal people got the company even when it was a little more complicated, but now it is possible to do all this very quickly and no one is asking for anything for the misdemeanor. Why the long story? I do not want to mention anyone in particular, and nor is it the position of the Centre Party that we should point the finger at someone specifically or blame anyone for the fact that one or the other law has been miscarried. Our party has, in a way, always been a proponent of redistribution. We think we need to help those who can't be helped.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U105	What? [[Laughter.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U106	Three more minutes, I'm sure, so I can help.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U107	You know where I'll be by the end of those three minutes. I'm coming to the risk of the left-hand pole coming to power. But I want to say to you, ladies and gentlemen of the Government Coalition in particular, that the methods with which you are currently trying to give extra money to the Central Party and to the Social Democrats, who are the next government, to the state budget are causing the situation that this money is also distributed very quickly, but that it does not bring about economic sustainability. I now come to the VAT Act. You also understand brilliantly that who understands what accounting is, it deals with it, and you get the data from him. But if someone doesn't have any books and all the management is in a plastic bag, whether it's in a party office or wherever, then you have to understand that he doesn't have the papers to submit to the IRS. Yesterday, a member of the coalition told me how many employees were in the IRS. I don't remember exactly, but there were a lot over 1,000, maybe 1,500, maybe 1,300. Let's do a simple calculation. We have 50,000 companies that submit an annual report and have some numbers on turnover. If we divide it by 50,000 working days and the number of employees of the tax administration, we will be able to recognise that one employee will be able to check one company for 6.6 days. If we increase the number of these companies to 100000, there will be almost three more days to check. After all, in three days it is very clearly possible to understand what is actually done in this company. Does this mean that instead of acting logically and as normal capitalism has behaved over the centuries in the power structures of reasonable countries and, as the economies of reasonable countries have developed, we will be dealing with things that, to say the least, seem strange to ourselves in the inner circle? It is even more embarrassing to start talking about it with someone who is also an employer, in fact the guarantor of the existence of this country, because it is the sustainability of the economy that depends on him. That's what the Centre Party hurts the heart about. It would probably be right for you to start listening a little bit about what people who may not always understand entrepreneurship are saying, for the simple reason that not all members of the Riigikogu are involved in entrepreneurship every day. Try to understand that a wise person does not saw the feet of the chair on which he sits. But that's what you're trying to do today. The content of the proposal on VAT on cars is very correct. For the first time in my life, I hear a middle party named Jürgen Ligi talking about a reasonable story about...
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U108	What?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U109	Yeah, I'm responsible for what I said! Don't interrupt, Madam President. Jürgen Ligi, a centurion party, says that he does not see a passenger car among the company's personal consumption. It's all right! Jürgen, you're right! It's a middle party way of thinking. We want to support this in every way, but the methods you put this idea into practice are irritating society against you, irritating society against liberal management. The lack of dialogue creates the situation that more and more very large and respected companies report, with a relatively large media campaign, that they are leaving Estonia because they do not like it here. Skanska, the Tartu Mill list can be continued. It's a sign of danger for us. It's a pink light in the traffic light. I can't tell you what all my esteemed partymates are doing. But I personally do not consider it right to support this bill in this form, because it is up to us to build the country so that it looks beautiful and reasonable.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U110	Thank you! There's no more calls. I will conclude the negotiations and we can start the final vote. I'm sorry! Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U111	Thank you. I have a procedural question. Why didn't you give the floor to the Reform Party Group?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U112	Because they didn't want a word. I'll start the call again. Dear Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote draft law amending the VAT Act and the Accounting Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 493. Please vote! 48 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 23 against and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U113	The third reading of the draft State Budget Act 2014 initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I would like the Chair of the Monetary Commission, Sven Sester, to present the report.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U114	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will give you an overview of the processing of the draft State Budget Act 2014 in the context of the third reading. The first reading of the draft State Budget Act 2014 took place in s. on 23 October 2004 and second reading 13.15. November. In order to prepare for the third reading, the Committee on Finance discussed the draft State Budget Act 2014 and the related topics at its meetings on 19 November and 5, 9 and 10 December. During the procedure, ministers from all sectors were heard, economic forecasts and economic situation were analysed, representatives of Eesti Pank were met and the European Commission's assessment of Estonia's state budget for next year was discussed. The revenue of the state budget is EUR 8.018 billion and the expenditure is EUR 8.056 billion. After completing the second reading, the deadline for submitting amendments, i.e. a on 27 November 2006 at 5 a.m., 10 amendments. One amendment was tabled by the Committee on Culture, four amendments by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party, five amendments by the Group of the Social Democratic Party and the Committee on Monetary Affairs itself drafted one proposal. Explanations of the amendments are included in the list of amendments. The amendment proposed by the Committee on Finance largely consists of a number of technical changes within the areas of government of the ministries, as well as changes to other laws during the state budget procedure. The amendment will increase regional investment, support various projects in the third sector and civil society, and add funds to cover the loss of revenue resulting from the amendment of the Income Tax Act and the VAT Act. The amendment was drafted on the basis of the letters and proposals received by the Commission to complete the draft State Budget Act 2014. In essence, the Finance Committee supported the proposal of the Committee on Culture resulting from the entry into force of the amendment to § 22 of the Study Grants and Student Loan Act on 1 January 2014. According to this, the State guarantee will be applied to the borrower's obligations under the Student Loan Agreement, which have been taken before the debtor's child is identified as having a deep disability. The application of the State guarantee means that the credit institution waives its obligations under the Student Loan Agreement and the State pays the amount owed by the borrower to the credit institution. Two amendments by the Social Democratic Party Group were partly supported. The rest of the amendments were rejected by the Finance Committee and are not voted in the Riigikogu plenary in accordance with § 120 (5) of the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure Act, according to which amendments submitted after the second reading of the draft State Budget Act are not supported by the Government of the Republic and which have not been taken into consideration by the commission are not put to the vote. I would like to point out the reasons for not supporting the proposals. The first proposal of the Social Democratic Party Group was partly taken into account by the Commission, on the basis that the increase in allocations provided for there coincides with the proposal of the Committee on Monetary Affairs itself. This proposal is essentially similar to the proposals for second reading. Now these proposals have been tabled as one proposal, while for the second reading they were presented one at a time. The Social Democratic Party Group and the Estonian Centre Party Group have made coincidence proposals on increasing costs and using sources of coverage. The following is an overview of the proposals by subject. One proposal provided for an increase in the cost of reimbursement of student loans. The Commission considered that the need to increase costs by EUR 8,64 million remains unclear. Growth is over 100%. The budget for 2014 is set at EUR 4,13 million. In addition, the amendment would increase indirect costs, i.e. the interest costs of the student debtor, the costs of incapacity benefits, etc., which in 2009, before the legislative amendment, cost approximately EUR 7 million. This would be an advantage for civil servants and public sector employees, i.e. essentially a wage supplement, which would result in unequal treatment of public sector employees compared to other employees. It was proposed to increase the matching fund for the budgets of local government units. Municipal tax revenues, revenues from environmental charges and from the Equalisation Fund are expected to reach EUR 945 million in 2014, or 4.9% of GDP. This is 5% more than in 2008. In terms of GDP, collection is higher than before the peak of the boom in 2003-2007. Although the total amount of the Equalisation Fund has not increased, all municipalities have benefited from the increase in tax revenue either directly or through the harmonisation effect of the Equalisation Fund. One proposal provided for an increase in the amount of the Fund, including expenditure on school food. It has been agreed with the Alliance of Educational Workers that part of the salary increases should be found through a review of the school organisation. Education expenditure support for municipal schools is increasing by EUR 9.5 million, and additional funding from other education expenditure lines can also be used. The budget for school lunch is EUR 14.3 million for municipal schools and EUR 2.2 million for vocational schools. Before increasing the school lunch allowance and extending it to upper secondary school, options should be reviewed to make it needs-based. This would make it possible to make more effective use of resources and to ensure that those in need have better chances of coping. One issue was the financing of school support services. Financing the work of logos and psychologists has always been the responsibility of local authorities; this has been done out of their own revenues. In 2011, the obligation to provide a social pedagogy service was added, which was financed by the State's local authorities in 2011-2013. It was supported by the European Commission in 2006. The Ministry of Education and Research has considered it reasonable to develop a system of regional support services in the future to ensure the availability of this service. It is not appropriate to provide a separate service in every small home school, as there is not enough staff or service for consumers. According to the Youth Work Act, there was a desire to increase benefits. The 2014 state budget provides EUR 2.6 million for youth and education projects, EUR 2.6 million for risky children, EUR 1.7 million for open youth centres and EUR 1.7 million for youth sport. There has already been talk of an increase in the wages of cultural workers as part of a cluster proposal. For information, in addition to 5.1% of the payroll fund, a further 1.5% of the payroll fund was allocated to the Ministry of Culture. The aim was to support the integration of the Technical University and the Maritime Academy. Here it is the view that accession should not lead to cost increases, but rather to their long-term savings. There was a long and thorough discussion of the triple of child benefits at second reading. The aim of the current family policy is to increase the necessity of the family benefit system. In particular, those who actually need it must receive help. If, in spite of the resource constraints, we multiply the subsidies, we will make inefficient use of taxpayers' money. The budget for 2014 for family allowances is EUR 101,2 million. The aim was to restore universal funeral support. There is no substantive justification why the State should re-pay the funeral allowance to all applicants without taking into account the economic opportunities of the deceased. Social benefits must be more needs-based. The proposed amendment would increase indirect costs (staff, administrative and document processing costs) in addition to the direct cost of the funeral allowance, as the number of beneficiaries would increase. Taking into account the proposal to increase road maintenance costs for local authorities would make it difficult for the State to fulfil its obligation to design a national road network. The state will be able to ensure that its roads are maintained and the necessary investments will only be made in the state budget out of the funds planned. Local authorities have own resources as the main source of road maintenance costs, complemented by support from the state budget. As a result, the share of local government support cannot increase sharply. The municipality's own revenue base has grown rapidly in recent years, with only income tax increasing 1.34 times in 2014 compared to 2010, or 200 million euros, which has improved local authorities' ability to deal with road maintenance costs, among other things. A word of cover. The Social Democratic Party has provided for the progressiveisation of the income tax system as one of the sources of coverage. The Prosamaa and Res Publica Association of the Party and the Estonian Reform Party's government union programme provide for the continuation of a simple and business-friendly uniform personal income tax system and excludes the introduction of a graduated income tax system. The tax rate will also be reduced to 20% from 2015. This amendment was adopted by the Riigikogu on 16 June 2011. The principle of Estonia's long-term tax policy is to tax less on earning and more on consumption. This is currently a tax policy trend in both the OECD and most Member States of the European Union, since such taxation affects less negatively the interest in working and earning and also has a lower negative impact on economic growth. As a separate source of cover, the Social Democrats offered to increase excise duties on alcohol. The Socialist proposal aims to increase the excise duty rate by an average of 20% per year for the next four years in a row. For the next three years, however, an increase in alcohol duty of 5% per year has already been planned, which is also legalised. Since there have been no recent debate on excise rates in the Committee on Monetary Affairs or in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, and there are different opinions in political groups, including coalition groups, on the harmonisation of excise rates for strong and thin drinks, I will pass on the opinion of the Ministry of Finance as the initiator of the draft, for the sake of regularity. According to the Ministry, an increase in the excise duty rate of 20% does not generate the additional revenue expected to the budget, but may rather reduce the revenue, inter alia due to the surge in the secret market. Compared to other European countries, Estonia is already among the relatively high taxing countries of alcohol. Compared to neighbouring Finland and Sweden, Estonia's excise duties on alcohol are lower, but given our incomes, alcohol is more expensive in Estonia than in neighbouring countries. In the event of harmonisation of excise duty rates, the increase in excise duty on dilute alcoholic beverages would be extremely high. But once again, this is the opinion of the Ministry of Finance and the political groups have different views on this issue. As a source of cover, the administrative building of the Office of the President of the Republic was offered a reduction in the construction costs of the border garden. The border garden of the administrative building of the Office of the President of the Republic is set at EUR 403000. The obligation to make this investment stems from Government Regulation No 33 of 19 April 2012 entitled "Personal protection measures for objects at high risk of attack'. Reducing the tax gap by improving the efficiency of the work of the Tax and Customs Board was also one of the possible sources of coverage offered to fund a number of proposals. The Tax and Customs Board is constantly working to improve its work and seeks to reduce the tax gap, including VAT. One measure reducing the VAT hole is the introduction of an electronic annex to the VAT return planned by the VAT Act, which we discussed a moment ago. With the effect of reducing the VAT gap, there are also planned restructurings under the Alcohol, Tobacco, Fuel and Electricity Excise Act and the Amendment to the Liquid Fuel Act Act 491. The increase in VAT receipts resulting from these changes has already been taken into account in budget planning and it is unlikely that the VAT gap will be further reduced in one year. In addition, specific measures to achieve the objective should be planned when presenting such a source of coverage. Currently, the Tax and Customs Board has not been offered measures to combat tax fraud. Now I am talking about some of the issues that were discussed in the Commission. The Commission provided a detailed overview of the development of a €30 million cover. I'll repeat that. The reserve of the Government of the Republic will be 7.5 million euros, of which 3.5 million euros have been allocated by the Riigikogu as additional resources for the areas of government and 4 million euros to cover the postponement of amendments to tax laws. The reserve can be used as an additional source of cover in view of its smaller use than planned in 2013. The Fund will receive EUR 2.7 million. This is the estimated residual value of the estimated costs, i.e. the forecast of the various types of support. The additional sale of land by the Ministry of the Environment amounts to EUR 1.8 million. Dividends from companies in the area of government of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications also account for 2 million euros and for 1 million euros from companies in the area of government of the Ministry of Finance. The income tax on additional dividends in 2013 will be EUR 9.9 million in January 2014. The administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications will receive EUR 5 million in additional revenue from the issuing of the frequency authorisation. This is the third 4G frequency authorisation, the final date of which will be in January. This change will not undermine the budgetary balance. Finally, it was decided in the Committee on Monetary Affairs to propose that the third reading be placed on the plenary agenda by Wednesday 11 December (this was proposed by consensus) and to propose that the draft be put to the final vote (with 6 votes for and 4 against, no abstentions). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U115	Thank you very much, Mr Sven Sester. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? Please, Mr Tamkivi, as representative of the Group of the Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U116	Ladies and gentlemen, What is going on here today is very common in a large way. Before we make a short break for Christmas and New Year's Eve, Parliament needs to get the new state budget over with. The government has been preparing the budget since spring, as if we had nothing to do but read it carefully and stamp it. But, as always, each budget is different, the budget is always made up of many small but important lines. The budget we are discussing today is no exception. There are a lot of details here, you have to find agreements, but it takes time to reach common opinions, and it makes you argue. We're different, but we have one budget. Disputes are going so fast that the work lasts several days in a row when it can be called a job. The sammu reader shows that every ten minutes, when we walk between the group room and the Chamber, we have traveled so far that we could have reached the Eiffel Tower and come down from there, but there is no end to it yet. All for the sake of explaining who can resist longer and who is wiser, whether he who endures longer or he who gives in first. Dear friends and colleagues! I call on you next autumn, when Parliament's current composition starts adopting the budget entrusted to us to discuss it, to be smarter. We have been chosen here not to stairwell, but to do substantial work. The voters don't even know what this whole circus is for. If we go on like this, it may be that at some point, if we really need to pull the brake to keep us in our own country, the brake pads may be worn out. As Chairman of the Reform Party Group, I can say from this platform that it is still a good budget, we can be pleased with that. The 2014 state budget makes it possible to improve people's well-being, raise wages and pensions. Estonia is one of the few Member States of the European Union with such rapid pension increases. We can afford it because wage growth has been faster than expected and unemployment has decreased. We will increase the income tax-free portion of pensions so that the average pension will be exempt from income tax after the increase. We raise income support to 900 euros per month. The need-based reform of family benefits will continue. We're moving in the right direction here. We'll help those who need help, and then we'll help them more. All family benefits paid to families with three or more children will grow. The Ministry of Culture's budget increases most among the ministries, with an increase of 21.2%. The construction of the new building of the Estonian National Museum has started, Ugala will be renovated, cultural workers will be paid more. The very necessary and right thing is being done in the Ministry of Education, and it is also visible from the budget. With today's vote, we confirm that education is valued in Estonia, because only the future can be built on it if we want our country to survive. Growing public transport volumes make it possible to ensure transport services throughout the country on the same or even larger scale than this year, without increasing ticket prices. There's new trains on the line. The first payments from this budget will also be made by Estonia to another major railway project in Rail Baltic. More national funds will be used for road maintenance next year than the European Union's Structural Funds. This will allow the focus to be more on smaller side roads than on local register offices and nodes. All major cities will receive clean drinking water by the end of 2014. This list of good things could certainly continue. Perhaps this will cause the evaluators who say that the Estonian state has progressed well, but this development has not reached the people at all. Where does this wealth stop, and where does this pile go? I don't know a place like that. They probably make a budget for people. Our economy is moderately optimistic. The Estonian budget does not eat the interest expense of repayable loans, as happens in many other countries. We can decide for ourselves how to spend our collected tax money, and it is a great victory that we have achieved with the whole nation through the efforts we have made in the years of crisis. Gradually, a debate has begun in society on substantive matters relating to the budget. Do people pay taxes because they love the Estonian state or because they fear the tax authorities? Are the funds distributed from the budget through the various measures really the ones who need it most? If our country's finances are in the best order, as they are when we look at the European Union, can we be pink and satisfied, or must we find problems (and if we do not, we must come up with them) to fill our heads and newspapers? I believe we have benefited from these disputes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U117	Do you need more time? Two minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U118	This argument and world-view measurement of how we want to see the monetary affairs of the Estonian state will soon take a new and even more rapid round, because until the Riigikogu elections, when the people once again say their word about how they want to see the Estonian state, there will be little time left. We have a choice between spending and investment, between tax belief and public participation and understanding, all in terms of drawing up the budget and building and maintaining the country as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you all for the contribution you have made to the 2014 state budget. The Reform Party Group will vote in favour of this budget and we will also call on others to vote in favour of the budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U119	Thank you very much, Mr Tamkivi. I would like to ask for the floor as representative of Mrs Iva Isamaa and Mrs Res Publica's Group. Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U120	Ladies and gentlemen, The central draft of the autumn session is the adoption of the law. It is clear that the most important issue in the budget is how to increase people's incomes and improve families' livelihoods, but to do so responsibly and sustainably, a number of answers have also been received in the budget for next year. The 2014 state budget focuses on raising people's incomes. Despite the slowdown in economic growth, new jobs have been created, businesses have returned to profit and people's wages have started to grow gradually. The Ministry of Finance forecasts an overall wage growth of 6.8% next year, while the wage funds of the recipients of the state budget increase by 5.1%. This will ensure an increase in the salaries of police officers, rescuers and cultural workers. Specific operational programmes have already appeared in some areas. For example, the salaries of all 1823 rescue officers on command, including all rescuers, will increase as well as the salaries of demineters and fire security officers. However, the distribution of education money between municipalities is only at the beginning. This is the most important subject, unfortunately, a lot of malicious misinformation has been disseminated about it and people have been intimidated. The fact is that the minimum wage for teachers will rise for the second year in a row, this time 11.9%, i.e. 800 euros. More funds are allocated to municipalities so that teachers can be paid an average salary of EUR 960. There has been a question of how an increase of almost 12% will be possible if the extra money on this budget line is only a few percentage points. Let me give you a few examples to explain. The state secondary schools, whose money stands on the so-called second shelf, are on the way to work, are not being taken away from the municipal school line. Thus, the local governments' own costs are decreasing. There has also been a sharp increase in the number of students in private schools, including private schools receiving support from another budget line. In addition, it should be taken into account that money is being released as a result of a general drop in the number of students. Of course, it is clear that a teacher gets paid both when there are 24 children in the class, for example, and when there are 14 children in the class, when two parallel classes with 12 students have become one class with 24 students, then the wage bill decreases. There have been other internal reforms that help raise the teacher's salary. I understand if every teacher doesn't know this information, but it's pretty ugly if a member of the Riigikogu is able to remember nothing a day later and scares teachers and local government leaders. It gives the impression that it is necessary to hide behind this talk the activities of the municipalities that do not pay out the money that the state has given to teachers to pay their wages. Fortunately, most cities and municipalities respect their teachers and act honestly. The municipality's own income base often also pays teachers extra money. For the third year in a row, pensions will rise by 5.8% next year. In increasing the tax-free share, we will take the first step, and in order to prevent income tax from pinching its share of the pension increase, the tax-free share of pensions will increase to 350 euros. This is a fundamental decision that ensures that the average pension is exempt from tax. The additional money is also in the budget to ensure that needs-based child support and universal child support has increased to EUR 77 since the third child throughout the year. I would remind you that these changes were applied this summer. The amount to be recovered as income support after the cost of housing is paid will also increase from EUR 77 to EUR 90. IRL considers it important that the state budget ensures the continuation of all planned educational reforms. It is planned to implement a reform that brings vocational education closer to the needs of the labour market and a transition to new, more quality-based vocational education and training. Development of state secondary schools continues. There is money to ensure the provision of free higher education starting this autumn and to pay needs-based education grants for the whole year now. It is important that the income base of local governments, i.e. income tax receipts, grows by 7%. In 2014, it will be EUR 777 million. Local authorities will receive 10% of the total funding of roads for the storage of public roads and 28 million euros will go directly to local governments for the storage of local roads. In order to increase the revenue side of the budget and reduce the number of tax frauds, the budget provides additional resources for the development of the information systems of the Estonian Tax and Customs Board. We are all eager to see how the Tax and Customs Board implements the legitimate option of additional controls so that all honest entrepreneurs can benefit from it. It is in the interests of them, but also of every citizen, to ensure that there is as little tax fraud as possible, to ensure fair competition between businesses, and more collected tax money could create a better living environment and provide more services for all of us. We will certainly bring the activities of the tax administration, including the increase in information security, administrative burdens and other such issues, under more precise parliamentary control. It should be noted that it cannot be satisfied that the drafts relating to tax changes now, unless there is an emergency situation in the economy, arrive before the Riigikogu at the twelfth hour. I believe that we all have to learn from this process. On the positive side, I also note that this year, too, we managed to prevent the noticeable tax increase proposed by the Social Democrats and the Bluffing of the revenues traditionally proposed by the Centre Party. If these positive signs are added to the reality recorded in the budget, I believe that despite the cool economic climate, the budget offers greater confidence to our families, it does so responsibly and within the limits of Estonia's possibilities. On behalf of the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, I urge everyone to vote in favour of this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U121	Thank you very much, Mr Iva. I would like to ask my colleague, Mr Sven Mikser, to represent the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U122	Ladies and gentlemen, Let's start from the beginning, perhaps the most important. Child benefits have been a key word in the procedure for the next year's budget before us. For ten years, the universal allowance for the first and second children in Estonia has been 19 euros and 18 cents, and this is unfortunately also the case next year. The Socialist proposals to change this disgraceful situation in the opposite coalition did not. He explained this with two things: the sources of cover we have proposed are not suitable and the subsidies should, at all, be only needs-based. As next year's draft state budget law is feared to be legalised today, we need to look to the future, i.e. to 2015. There is a source to raise the support of the first and second children to at least EUR 48. To this end, only a 1% reduction in the income tax rate should be waived. This reduction would leave EUR 1 to the recipient of the minimum wage, EUR 6 to the teacher and EUR 48 to the Prime Minister, for example. For us, ladies and gentlemen, almost as much as every month. These are clear alternatives, as the cost of both options is around EUR 75 million. If we remain honest with ourselves, we should look at all the costs of the state budget, but also the tax changes that reduce the revenue of the budget on a need-based basis and ask whether this 48 euros is needed by more children and families with children or by the Prime Minister and members of the Riigikogu. In addition to the issue of child benefits, I would like to mark, in our opinion, important concerns for which no solutions have been proposed in the budget. One of these is high labour taxes on low-paid people. In essence, we still have a hidden income tax supplement for the recipient of the salary, which is an unjustified high level of unemployment insurance, which is not progressive and only taxes the employee, not the beneficiary of the dividend income. At the same time, the government has abandoned the idea of raising the tax-free rate, which the Minister of Finance himself has advocated in the past. Certainly, the government's list of unfinished works includes the round-trip allowance promised in the coalition agreement, as well as the lack of free school food at the upper secondary school level so far. It is also unclear what will be the rise in the pay of teachers who are currently receiving more than the minimum rate. It is true that the increase in this budget line is even below the expected average wage increase next year. It is also a concern that the government is still ignoring regional policy. Local government underfunding is also a concern. The Equalisation Fund is particularly concerned. This fund supports all municipalities that do not belong to a handful of the wealthiest but, unfortunately, the amount of this budget line does not increase significantly. The subject of recent weeks in the press has been the so-called 'roof money'. Despite the fact that the Social Democrats have not even participated in the provision of roofing money for a cent in the last two years, I do not want to hypocritically condemn the fact that the Riigikogu is speaking in the direction of investments, nor to claim that the necessary, even essential, expenditure is not made on roofing money. However, I consider it totally unacceptable and unworthy if such a marginal amount, in terms of the total budget volume, is to buy out the opposition and suppress criticism of the budget as a whole. The coalition's understanding of this problem is vividly illustrated by the thought expressed in an article published today that, for example, the investment money given in addition to Ida-Viru County does not correspond in proportion to the size and population of the county, but is in line with the number of votes given to the government coalition in recent elections. That is not the way, ladies and gentlemen! In addition to children's allowances, the initiative on taxation of private passenger car use by companies has received the most attention in the process of processing this draft state budget law. The story of this bill can be viewed as an illustration of the government's understanding of lawmaking and the role of the legislative body in Estonia. By admitting that the attempt to reduce the tax hole is reasonable in itself, it has to be said that the way in which these changes were attempted did not, in almost any aspect, correspond to good legislative practice. Judging from the government's rhetoric, it is the incompetent or malicious opposition, the press, socialists and research institutions that now have all kinds of businesses and tax-paying organisations that are not worth consulting in drafting and whose opinion, in the government's opinion, is motivated only by the desire to optimize taxes and fraud. The next year, the more difficult it will be to find those interest groups and social groups to whom the government does not oppose itself. If we look for something positive in the draft before us, then the Social Democrats will certainly support the additional tax exemption for pensions, which will make the average old-age pension once again exempt from income tax. We are also pleased that the issue of the reimbursement of school loans for parents of children with a deep disability has been resolved, which was at first overlooked by the initiators of the draft, but which, however, has been fixed for the third reading. But, ladies and gentlemen, when it is said that a tar drop can ruin an entire honey pot, it is certainly not the honeypot that makes it sweet. In view of the above, it cannot be surprising for anyone that the 2014 state budget, which is not trying to solve much of the problems facing the Estonian state and society, cannot be supported by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. In the final vote, we will vote against the adoption of the draft state budget law for next year as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U123	Thank you. As a representative of the Central Party Group, I would like to ask Mr Simson to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U124	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Much has already been said about the state budget for this coming year. However, looking at this document, it must be said that the government has had a lot of work to do to meet the budget. This has been brought together by extorting maximum dividends from public enterprises, taking into account euro money, loans and reserves and a more conservative growth forecast. Nevertheless, expenditure in the budget is planned more than revenue. For a long time, Andrus Ansip's claim that he is not the Prime Minister of a government that proposes a budget in deficit is no longer valid. Holding on to the mantra in such a situation that the Estonian tax system must be frozen is not a viable attitude. Tax increases and imposed cuts in 2009, at the height of the recession, are still in force. They are already pretending that this is a new normality, and these tax increases and cuts, which were often very painful, are justified in every way. Today we heard the chairman of the Monetary Commission and the IRL politician from this speech chair announce that the free school food offer could be reformed again, still so that all children would not get free school food anymore. This is called a need-based change in the most beautiful language. But this is already a subject of revision. I would remind you that in 2008 the first proposal of the Crocodile Committee was precisely that money should be saved on school food. That would be completely pointless violence against children. School lunch allowance is currently 78 cents, and it has been quite a few long years since it was introduced. Over these years, prices have increased significantly, especially food prices. Food has become more expensive by a third, i.e. the school lunch of a middle school student has become a third worse if cities and municipalities have not paid for the difference. Cities and municipalities have also borne a large part of the obligation to maintain local roads. This amount has been reduced, and now we see that next year less money will be allocated to maintain local roads than this year. Good news about the budget is also being sought. The increase in teachers' salaries could certainly be the case if additional resources were allocated in the budget at the rate of wage increases, but they do not exist. As an additional burden for all schools, the abolition of the wage fund for social pedagogies and psychologists, which, during the previous Minister of Education, was incorporated into the Basic School and Upper Secondary School Act and which the Minister of Regional Affairs, with his signature, promised local authorities. Now the same party and the same minister will no longer remember this agreement. Against this background, there is no reason to be surprised that the promises made at the beginning of this year will not be remembered. These promises were made by the Chairman of the IRL, by the Minister of Finance. These promises were about increasing the tax-free minimum. This tax relief would benefit primarily those who earn average wages or below. Remember, at the beginning of the year, there was an oversupply, who promised EUR 500 to ease the minimum wage. But the truth is that from next year's budget, ordinary people who earn a minimum wage will not receive an average salary or more, no tax relief, not even a cent. It is really very sad to say that this is one tired and bleak budget, where problems are being tried to overcome by decorating accounting and budget lines, but the solution of the problems is being postponed. Therefore, the Central Party Group will vote against the adoption of the draft State Budget Act as a law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U125	Thank you very much. All political groups have received the floor. I'm closing the negotiations. There are 11 amendments to the draft law; we will review them. Amendment 1 is from the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the proposal of the commission is that this amendment should be partially taken into account. Amendment 2 is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the proposal of the commission is that this amendment should be disregarded. Amendment 3 is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the proposal of the commission is that this amendment should be disregarded. Amendment 4 is from the Committee on Monetary Affairs; the commission has taken this proposal fully into account. Amendment 5 has been tabled by the Committee on Culture; this proposal has been taken into account in substance by the Steering Committee. Amendment 6 has been tabled by the Estonian Central Party Group; this proposal has not been taken into account by the commission. Amendment 7 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; this proposal has been partially taken into account by the commission. Amendment 8 has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the proposal of the commission is that this amendment should be disregarded. The ninth amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the proposal of the commission is that this amendment should be disregarded. The 10th amendment has been tabled by the Group of the Social Democratic Party; the proposal of the commission is that this amendment should be disregarded. Amendment 11 is from the Group of the Estonian Centre Party; the proposal of the commission is that this amendment should be disregarded. Ladies and gentlemen, we have examined the amendments. The commission proposes that draft 490 should be put to the final vote. We are preparing for the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft State Budget Act 2014 initiated by the Government of the Republic, 490. Please take a stand and vote. 59 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 41 against and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U126	Let's keep going. The second reading of draft 531 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the work of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation and the international military headquarters of the European Union', submitted by the Government of the Republic, begins. Aivar Riisalu, Vice-Chairman of the National Defence Commission, will give a speech.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U127	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, please listen carefully, because I have a very important message for you. The National Defence Committee discussed this draft before submitting it to second reading in its s. A meeting on 3 December, attended by Kalle Kirss, adviser to the Legal Department of the Ministry of Defence, as a representative of the Ministry of Defence. On the proposal of Mr Aivar Engel, Commissioner-Secretariat, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose one amendment to the draft and to make some linguistic corrections to the draft. These mainly concerned communications in the title of the draft. In addition, the word 'new' was changed to a location. This is in line with the Riigikogu decision of 19 December 2012. On the basis of the International Military Cooperation Act, the Riigikogu decides on the limit of the number of Estonian Defence Forces each year, how many Defence Forces can participate in the work of the international military headquarters in the new operation area led by NATO and the European Union. The Riigikogu gives this mandate only to participate in new operations and this does not apply to current operations. The draft decision of the Riigikogu determining the limit shall be submitted to the Riigikogu by the Government of the Republic and shall be determined on the basis of the decision of the Riigikogu for each calendar year. According to the draft under discussion, up to five members of the Defence Forces may participate in the work of the headquarters in 2014 as this year. When we put it in Estonian, we will give a bill of lading in case it gets quick. The National Defence Committee is of the opinion that contributing to the new military operations of NATO and the European Union is Estonia's priority, which is directly due to our membership of NATO and the European Union. In addition, Estonia participates in decisions to start operations managed by these organisations, which is very important. The National Defence Committee decided s. a at the meeting on 3 December, by consensus, to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu. a by 11 December, and propose that the second reading of the draft be completed. On the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose the final vote on the draft and adopt the draft as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U128	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. One amendment has been made to the draft decision. Let's go through it. Amendment 1 has been tabled by the Committee on National Defence; the proposal of the commission is that this amendment should be fully taken into account. The commission has proposed that the second reading of draft 531 be closed and put to the final vote. We are preparing for the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote to the final vote on the Riigikogu's decision 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the work of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation and the international military headquarters of the European Union', Bill 531. Please take a stand and vote. 65 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U129	Agenda item 5 is the second reading of draft 528 of the Riigikogu's decision on the extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state on the peace-building mission in Kosovo. Please present a speech chair to the National Defence Committee member Tõnu July!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U130	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, According to the draft decision, Estonia will continue to contribute to the NATO-led international peace-building mission KFOR in Kosovo, based on UN Security Council Resolution 1244 of June 1999. The service position of the Estonian Defence Forces is at the KFOR headquarters in Priština. According to the draft, Estonia fulfils its allied obligations arising from its NATO membership. Kosovo's stability has a significant impact on the security of the Western Balkans and Europe as a whole. The aim of international peace-building forces and Estonia is to support the Kosovo Government in ensuring security and stability in the country. In addition to the Defence Forces, Estonia has seconded experts to Kosovo in the framework of the civilian mission EULEX. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading in its s. A meeting on 3 December, where Kalle Kirss, Adviser to the Legal Department of the Ministry of Defence, took part as representative of the initiator of the draft. The first reading of the draft decision was completed in the Riigikogu. a on November 19th. By the deadline for tabling amendments, i.e. a by 11 a.m. on 2 December, no amendments to the draft were tabled. The National Defence Committee, in coordination with the Estonian Language Institute, made some linguistic and technical corrections to the second reading text. The National Defence Committee decided s. a at the meeting on 3 December, by consensus, to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu. a by 11 December, and propose that the second reading of the draft be completed. On the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose the final vote on the draft and adopt the draft as a decision of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U131	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Tõnu Juul! Is there a desire to negotiate? There are no requests, there are no amendments to the draft. The proposal of the commission is that the second reading of draft 528 should be closed and put to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I will final vote on the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the peace-building mission in Kosovo', draft 528. Please take a stand and vote. 60 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U132	Agenda item 6 is the second reading of the draft 527 of the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in the execution of the international obligations of the Estonian state in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria' submitted by the Government of the Republic. For a presentation, Ülo Tulik, Member of the National Defence Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U133	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee discussed this draft before submitting it to second reading in its s. A meeting on 3 December, where Kalle Kirss, Adviser to the Legal Department of the Ministry of Defence, took part as representative of the initiator of the draft. The first reading of the draft decision was completed in the Riigikogu. a on November 19th. The deadline for tabling amendments was s. a on 2 December, at 11 a.m. No amendments to the draft were tabled at that time. The National Defence Committee made one linguistic amendment to the draft, as the language rules require UNTSO to be in vertical form. The National Defence Committee decided s. a at the meeting on 3 December, by consensus, to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu. a by 11 December, and propose that the second reading of the draft be completed. On the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose the final vote on the draft and adopt the draft as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U134	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Ülo Tulik! Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. No amendments to the draft have been tabled. The proposal of the commission is that the second reading of draft 527 should be closed and put to the final vote. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will final vote on the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria', draft 527. Please take a stand and vote. 56 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U135	Agenda item 7 is the second reading of the draft 526 of the Riigikogu's decision on the extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces by the Government of the Republic in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the European Union Training Mission and the United Nations Peacebuilding Mission in Mali. I would like a presentation by Marianne Mikko, Member of the National Defence Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U136	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As a Member State of the European Union, it is important for Estonia to contribute to the implementation of the European Union's Common Security and Defence Policy (CSDP). The continued participation of up to ten Estonian Defence Forces in the European Union Training Mission in Mali (EUTM Mali) provided for in point 1 of the draft will help to do this. Today it is the only European Union military mission in which Estonia participates. A total of 23 European Union Member States contribute to this together with Estonia. As we know, the Estonian Defence Forces' ship defence team stopped participating in the European Union anti-piracy operation Atalanta six months ago. I come back to the European Union mission in Mali. Estonian Defence Forces do not participate in military operations within this framework, but are involved in training and advising the Malian Armed Forces. According to point 2 of the draft, the participation of up to two Estonian staff officers in the UN peacekeeping mission in Mali is extended to MINUSMA. The main task of these staff officers shall be to participate in the planning and consultation process for the training of Malian units. The National Defence Committee discussed the draft before submitting it to second reading in its s. A meeting on 3 December, attended by Kalle Kirss, adviser to the Legal Department of the Ministry of Defence, as a representative of the Ministry of Defence. The National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose one amendment to the draft. The amendment follows from the fact that up to eight members of the Defence Forces were appointed by decision of the Riigikogu of 19 June 2013. In paragraph 1 of the draft decision of the Riigikogu under discussion, their mandate is extended, but at the same time the number of members of the Defence Forces is increased to 10, which is why it is legally not only an extension of the mission of eight members of the Defence Forces, but also an increase in the number of members of the Defence Forces. The representative of the Ministry of Defence supported the amendment. At its meeting on 3 December, the National Defence Committee decided unanimously to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading by 11 December and to propose that the second reading be stopped. On the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose the final vote on the draft and adopt the draft as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U137	Thank you very much. Please, Marko Mihkelson, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U138	Thank you, President-in-Office. Dear waitress, As we know, in the near future, the European Council will be discussing issues of defence policy. The Mali mission is undoubtedly a good example of how the European Union cooperates in such operations. But, by extending this mandate, did the National Defence Committee analyse the current situation in Mali and what assessment could be made of the cooperation between the Member States of the European Union in the region?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U139	In particular, at this meeting on 3 December, we did not specifically discuss the issue of Mali, but we will continue to attend briefings with your committee, where we will also get an overview of what is happening in Mali. I am really pleased that the European Council next week will have more than eight years, if I am not mistaken, of defence cooperation in the European Union. I welcome it. I hope that our Prime Minister will be there on the initiative and not only in defence matters but also in the direction of NATO, but also in the direction of the European Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U140	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Marianne Mikko. Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. There was an amendment to the draft, and we will review it. The amendment has been tabled by the Committee on National Defence; the proposal of the commission is that this proposal should be fully taken into account. The amendment has been examined. The proposal of the commission is that the second reading of draft 526 should be closed and put to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote to the final vote on the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State on the European Union Training Mission and the United Nations Peace Mission in Mali' draft 526. Please take a stand and vote. 54 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U141	Agenda item No 8 is the second reading of draft 530 of the Riigikogu decision "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the NATO response forces." To present the speech chair of the Riigikogu Lauri Laasi, member of the National Defence Committee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U142	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The National Defence Committee discussed this draft before submitting it to second reading in its s. A meeting on 3 December, where Kalle Kirss, Adviser to the Legal Department of the Ministry of Defence, took part as representative of the initiator of the draft. The first reading of this draft Riigikogu decision was completed in the Riigikogu. a on November 19th. No amendments were tabled to the draft by the deadline of 2 December at 11 a.m. Most of the amendments were made to the draft text by the National Defence Committee when it was submitted to the first reading as amended. Therefore, there is only one linguistic amendment to the text at second reading. In paragraph 1 of the draft, the word 'peace' was abandoned because no other words were associated with it. A representative of the Ministry of Defence supported the amendment. At its meeting on 3 December, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu by 11 December and to propose that the second reading be terminated. On the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose the final vote on the draft and adopt the draft as a decision of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U143	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Lauri Laasi! Any requests? There's no call. No amendments to the draft have been tabled. The proposal of the commission is that the second reading of draft 530 should be closed and put to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I will final vote on the draft decision of the Riigikogu, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 'Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the NATO response forces' 530. Please take a stand and vote. 55 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U144	The ninth item on the agenda is the second reading of the draft 525 of the Riigikogu's decision "Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the peace-building mission in Afghanistan." Ms Mati Raidma, Chairman of the National Defence Commission, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U145	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, As a draft decision of the Riigikogu concerning the use of the last defence force, you have before you a draft for the peace-building mission in Afghanistan. The National Defence Committee discussed this draft as well as the previous five drafts before it was submitted to second reading in its s. a at its meeting on 3 December. The first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu under discussion was completed in the Riigikogu on 19 November. The deadline for tabling amendments was 11 a.m. on 2 December. No amendments were tabled, although the Commission made some linguistic corrections to the text of the second reading. According to the draft, the term of use of the Defence Forces for the ISAF peacekeeping mission in Afghanistan will be extended until 31 December 2014. In so doing, the main unit of the Defence Forces, the infantry company, should complete the mission by summer 2014. The Defence Forces logistics will then move the equipment of the Estonian contingent out of Afghanistan. This work should be completed by next autumn. After that, NATO's main task will be to support and train Afghan security forces, which are already being prepared for a new NATO international operation in Afghanistan, called Resolute Support. At its meeting on 3 December, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to submit the draft for second reading on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu. a by 11 December. On the basis of § 109 of the Riigikogu Law on Home and Working Procedures, it was also decided by consensus to make proposals to terminate the second reading of the draft, to put the draft to a final vote and to adopt it as a decision of the Riigikogu. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U146	Thank you very much. You have questions. Please, Rein Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U147	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable performer! We heard about your report and read in the explanatory statement submitted by the government that the unit will leave Afghanistan in May or June 2014, i.e. the infantry company will leave at that time. However, in the draft decision, we read that we need to continue to work on rotation. Who needs rotation, and why can the upper limit be raised to 340 armed forces after May 2014?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U148	Thank you very much. The rotation concerns the logistics, one more shift remains to pack up the equipment and send it out of Afghanistan. As far as 340 is concerned, this figure remained at the Commission's meeting at the urgent request of the Centre Party. It's hard to explain, but it was done for cooperation and peace of work. This figure was accepted by the Commission because it is preceded by 'up', which means that this figure is probably 40 in real terms.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U149	Thank you. Please, Marko Mihkelson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U150	Thank you, Mr President. Good chairman of the committee! Since we are likely to extend this mandate for an international mission of great importance to us for the last time, I will ask you, Mati, as a very good Afghan expert, such a question: how do you appreciate our military missions in Afghanistan through these years, when we have been there, and what perspective do you see in the coming months, perhaps also in the years, in relation to what is happening in Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U151	Thank you. This has been the largest and most victimized mission of the Defence Forces. This has led us to think deeply about the values of security. This mission has motivated us to launch a veteran policy that is very important in today's society. Looking at the wider security environment, the mission to Afghanistan certainly had a symbolic meaning for NATO. Apparently, NATO's development history will begin to bear the same sign of the ISAF for a few years. The extremely positive result, of course, is that NATO's operational capacity for cooperation is better than ever, which is crucial from the point of view of Estonia's security policy. We therefore face the challenge of maintaining the joint working capacity and the brother-in-law that has developed over these years. It is clear from the day that it is not the only and the main solution here to find the next hotspot. Many other areas of activity and cooperation agreements are being prepared. The Estonians carried out their task, as I mentioned, at the cost of quite heavy victims, but completely. I think our defence forces have grown up, more professional and experienced over the years and thanks to this mission. I have already mentioned once that a new mission is being prepared, which depends on day-to-day policy, on how the negotiations between Afghanistan and the US will end, and after that the negotiations between Afghanistan and NATO on the follow-up operation Resolute Support will end. Within this framework, the Ministry of Defence and the Defence Forces are preparing Estonia's understanding of our involvement in Afghanistan, but this is already a separate issue. There will certainly be a new mandate coming to the Riigikogu next year before these decisions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U152	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U153	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! Estonia's contribution to the Afghanistan mission has been highly appreciated by our allies in several documents. Are there any changes to our humanitarian programmes due to the end of the mission? Will we soon see a cardinal change of direction, or will our humanitarian programmes continue there?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U154	Thank you. Our humanitarian programmes are continuing and are probably expanding. The only change that can come is purely pragmatic and based on the security environment. We have had civilian projects and development aid projects in Helmand Province, South Afghanistan, but if the security environment there becomes more fragile after NATO exits, the programmes will be closed or directed to other regions of Afghanistan. In fact, Afghanistan is not as dangerous as it may seem from a distance. There are different levels of risk in very many regions. This also means what I have not mentioned yet, that if Estonia continues to operate in the region, it will not be in South Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U155	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Mati Raidma. Any requests? There's no call. No amendments to the draft have been tabled. The proposal of the commission is that the second reading of draft 525 should be closed and put to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I will final vote on the Riigikogu's decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the peace-building mission in Afghanistan', draft 525. Please take a stand and vote. 54 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U156	Agenda item 10 is the second reading of draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act and the Consumer Protection Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. For a presentation, I would like to ask Kalle Laaneti, vice-chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U157	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee discussed this draft on Monday, 2 December. Kristiina Koll, Adviser to the Department of Private Law at the Legal Policy Department of the Ministry of Justice, was invited to this item. No amendments were tabled to the draft by the deadline for tabling amendments. No letters or referrals have been received from the commission in connection with the draft. Neither the drafters nor the Committee on Legal Affairs considered it necessary to amend the draft, which is why the draft will be submitted to second reading unchanged. The Committee on Legal Affairs decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu for a second reading by 11 December and to propose that the second reading be terminated. We had already decided that the draft could be put on the agenda for the meeting on 12 December for the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U158	Any questions? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Kalle Laane. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. No amendments to the draft have been tabled. The Commission's proposal is that the second reading of draft 505 should be completed. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U159	Agenda item 11 is the second reading of the draft law amending the European Parliament Election Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Mr Neeme Suur, Member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, would you like to present the speech chair?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U160	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Constitutional Affairs prepared this draft for a second reading at its meeting on 2 December. The first reading of the draft act took place on 20 November, with the deadline set by the Bureau on 29 November. No amendments were received within the deadline. The Constitutional Commission itself, in cooperation with the Election Commission of the Republic and the Ministry of Justice, decided to propose four amendments. I am now going to talk more about these amendments. The first amendment concerns point 3 of the draft, where it is currently stipulated that a citizen of the European Union, applying in another Member State, will add to the application documents a statement that he has not been deprived of his right to stand as a candidate in the country of origin. This point states that two documents must be submitted: an application and, in addition, a statement stating that the right to stand as a candidate has not been withdrawn in the country of origin. The amendment tabled by the Commission shall prevent the submission of two documents and shall formulate a point in such a way that its right to stand as a candidate is confirmed in the general application. The second amendment concerns point 6 of the draft, which states that the electoral committee of the Republic shall immediately inform the competent administrative authority of the country of origin. According to the amendment, it shall inform the administrative authority which shall forward to the Election Commission of the Republic information on the right to stand as a candidate in the country of origin. This second sentence, which has been added, is important because it is important for us not only to inform the institution of the country of origin but also to receive information from it. Amendment 3 concerns the deadline for submitting an application. According to the proposal, the registration period for candidates would be extended. If, for example, Estonia has to start asking another Member State whether or not a particular person has the right to apply, the draft provides for five days, and five days are also foreseen for registration of candidates, but during this period this check may not be technically successful. Consequently, it is proposed that the Commission should have 10 days between the deadline for submitting candidates for registration and the registration instead of five days. The same third amendment also gives rise to the fourth amendment. There is a principle that electoral laws should not be amended immediately before the elections take place and significant changes should not be made one year before the elections take place. However, the third amendment changes the time between submission and registration of candidates. This is an important change. The Commission proposes that this specific provision should enter into force after the 2014 European Parliament elections, the beginning of the following year, i.e. on 1 January 2015. To this extent, on Monday, 2 December, when the committee meeting took place, Kristen Kanarik, adviser to the Public Law Service of the Ministry of Justice, and Arne Koitmäe, legal adviser to the Elections Department of the Office of the Riigikogu, also participated there. The commission also took procedural decisions. It was decided to propose that the draft be put on the plenary agenda on 11 December, today, to conclude the second reading, to send the draft to third reading and, when the second reading is closed, to put the draft to the final vote. All decisions taken by the Commission, both on the amendments and on the procedural decisions, were taken in a consensual manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U161	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U162	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! Two days ago, there was a longer article in one international media publication that Berlusconi, removed from the Italian Parliament, could still run for office in the European Parliament. Three countries were brought up where he could do so: Estonia, Bulgaria and Romania. It was also pointed out that it could receive the nationality of these countries as a matter of urgency. Is this amendment, which concerns the situation in which the right to stand as a candidate has been withdrawn from someone in the country of origin, in principle intended to regulate such cases? If someone were to have an accelerated citizenship in such a case, would that make a difference?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U163	Thank you. The whole principle of the European Parliament Election Act is that a person can apply if he or she so wishes in a Member State of which he or she is not a national. If a foreign citizen receives Estonian citizenship and is nominated here as an Estonian citizen, these amendments do not concern this case, in which case the Estonian citizen will apply in Estonia. These amendments and the entire draft that we are currently dealing with concern cases where a national of another country is applying in our country. In this case, it must meet the conditions of both countries, both their country of origin and Estonia. This is what this whole process is for.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U164	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U165	I agree with that answer, but I have a very specific question. If he gets the citizenship of another European Union country on an accelerated basis but applies for a third one, what then?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U166	In that case, the question is whether for Estonia this second country is a third country or the first country. In short, if a person is a national of one country, receives the citizenship of another country and applies for the application in a third country, the draft currently being processed will be fully implemented and Estonia will turn to that other country on the basis of the principles transposed from the Directive and wonder if, in accordance with the laws of that country, that person has the right to apply. If he or she has the right to apply in accordance with the conditions of the Estonian state, he or she can apply.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U167	No further questions. Thank you, Neeme the Great! Any requests? There's no call. Four amendments to the draft have been tabled, and we will review them. Amendment 1 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the proposal of the commission is that this amendment should be fully taken into account. With regard to Amendment 2, the commission has proposed that this amendment should be fully taken into account. Amendment 3 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the proposal of the commission is that this amendment should be fully taken into account. Amendment 4 is from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the proposal of the commission is that this amendment should be fully taken into account. We have examined the amendments. The Commission's proposal is that the second reading of draft 520 should be completed. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U168	Today's 12th item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Act on Creative Persons and Creative Unions initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws 522. Paul-Eerik Rummo, Member of the Cultural Committee of the Chair, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U169	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Riigikogu! As we remember from the first reading, the aim of the draft is to alleviate the problems faced by freelance artists in obtaining medical and pension insurance due to the specific nature of their activities and the income they generate from creative activities. The deadline for submitting amendments was 22 November in the Riigikogu plenary session at first reading of the draft law. No amendments came from members of the Riigikogu, political groups or committees. At its meetings on 3 and 9 December, the Committee on Culture examined the letters on the draft that had come from the Estonian Journalists' Association, the Estonian Artists' Association, the Estonian Cinema Association and the Tartu Artists' Association. The Commission, together with the draft author, discussed the views expressed in these letters and the proposals made. Partly as a result, and partly as a result of the need to make some technical and linguistic clarification in order to facilitate the comprehension of the law, the Commission has drawn up five amendments, which you will see in the list of proposals. After consulting the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu and preparing the draft with the Ministry of Culture, the Commission decided to accept the request of the Association of Estonian Performers to postpone the enforcement of some provisions of the Act for a year. These provisions concern the timely submission of an annual report by the Creative Union seeking State support and the liquidation or deferral of any debts. This is reflected in point 5.1 of Amendment 5. If this proposal goes through, this provision will enter into force not as of 1 January 2014, but as of 1 January 2015. The Tartu Artists' Association drew attention to a few uncertainties in the original wording of the draft, in the definition of a non-profit association recognised as a creative union in subsection 1 (3) (2) and (4) of the draft. The Commission considered this comment to be appropriate and drafted Amendment 1, which is supported by the drafter. Point 1.1 of this amendment corrected those provisions. These were the proposals made in letters and referrals which the Commission considered necessary to take into account and to make the proposed changes to the draft. On the other proposals, the Commission's view was that they do not coincide with the general logic of the current Creatives and Creative Unions Act or the draft, and are therefore not compatible with the draft. As we know, an intellectual property code is currently being codified, including copyright. Where it is necessary to use the term 'author' also for creative professions (currently not on the basis of copyright), this possibility should be established as a general rule in the intellectual property regime. It is worth noting that the Commission's unanimous recognition that this draft, which was prepared under the hands of Minister Lang, who has now resigned, will significantly strengthen and consolidate the position of the creative federations in the cultural landscape and, more generally, in society and in the country, on the contrary to the imagination, as if the creative federations were not sufficiently respected and their opinion would not be heard, which was blamed on the minister and which was fatal to him. So there's something paradoxical about life. One way or another, if this bill becomes a law, there will be no longer any conflict over the years that freelance artists, whose work makes life more interesting and beautiful for all of us, have in many cases no social guarantees available to everyone else. The Commission unanimously decided to propose that the second reading of the draft be concluded today, 11 December, and that the draft be sent to the third reading. The third reading could take place next Wednesday, 18 December, so that before Christmas we could lose this disadvantage in our social relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U170	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Andres Herkel!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U171	Thank you. Thank you, Mr waitress, also for the fact that a very comprehensive explanatory statement has been attached to the draft, which gives you a picture. I come back to the question of journalistic creation. There are undoubtedly freelance journalists, but I cannot agree with what you said in the explanatory memorandum that the criteria for journalistic creation are quite difficult to define. I guess that's it. But I ask the question a little bit in the opposite direction: how do I define the limit of literary and journalistic creation? A collection of press vests is more or less literature. Whether there is a set of interviews, it's a bit more complicated. How would you determine this limit?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U172	The question of drawing this line was not raised in relation to the draft. It is undoubtedly a discretionary decision that is taken on a case-by-case basis. I don't think you can define it in a very unambiguous legal way.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U173	No further questions. Thank you very much, Paul-Eerik Rummo! I'm opening negotiations. Please, Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U174	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm starting with something wrong with this picture of artists and creative associations, and it's even better to say something is missing. There is a shortage of those who have been bitterly described by a former Minister for Culture as obstacles to the conduct of his cultural policy. We're talking about journalists. The Estonian Journalists' Association currently has 368 members, 149 of whom have jobs in some press publications. The largest number of journalists working in the ERR is 66 members of the Union. As a freelance journalist, 89 people, or a quarter, are listed. In parallel with the Estonian Journalists' Association, the Estonian Newspaper Association operates, which does not unite the self-employed but the publications whose employees are journalists. The repeated claim that all reasonable journalists belong to the Estonian Newspaper Association is therefore, in essence, wrong, because this association takes journalists as employers, i.e. posted workers. The Estonian Newspapers Association cannot belong to any freelance journalist, and it does not include any journalist who has a contract of employment with the ERR. So are journalists working in Estonian National Broadcasting not among reasonable journalists? The Estonian Code of Journalism Ethics, which both associations must follow, states in point 1.4: "The writer is responsible for his words and works. " How is it possible to be responsible for creation without being a creative person? § 4 of the current Copyright Act recognises a journalist as a creative person according to his activities. I list works that are subject to copyright: literary, public, political, educational, etc. written works; written and three-dimensional scientific and popular works (monography, articles, reports of scientific work, plans, schemes, models, models, tests, etc.); audiovisual works, radio and television journalism; opinions, reviews, peer reviews, etc.; derived works, such as translation of the work, adaptation of the original work (adoption), processing (argument) and other processing of the work, such as editor's work. Let us continue in the same spirit: the original title (name) of the work is to be protected on an equal footing with the work. The content of the daily news is not merely a creation, but its presentation and skilful formulation, drawing conclusions from it and writing comments based on the daily news is a creation, not to mention the specifics of television and radio work. The Creative Persons and Creative Unions Act therefore goes against copyright law. Most publications do not readily acknowledge the right of a journalist to his or her work; rather, he or she is considered to be the property of a publication. Nine years ago, when the Act on Creative Persons and Creative Associations was passed here in the Riigikogu, the then representatives of the people brought the exclusion of the Estonian Journalists' Association on the grounds that most journalists have a contract of employment, which would make the creative union unequal compared to others, even though, for example, the actors also have employees with a contract of employment and freelance actors. If this argument could have been true in November 2004, now, in 2013, the loss of pay and freelance for many journalists is a harsh reality. The press now needs protection from economic pressure more than ever. As a creative union, the Estonian Journalists' Association could support freelance journalists who are free thinkers, analysts and in-depth researchers, whose activities are not so much influenced by economic, political and especially publisher pressure. In principle, in this way, there could be much time and effort to support the investigative press, which is currently either not done, which is done only in the ERR, or is the property of some of the individual chosen ones. If the quality of the press is concerned, then it is time to recognise the press as a creation, so that it can also demand quality at the level of creation, otherwise everything quickly degenerates into puppets and clicks. Several members of the Estonian Journalists' Association have published books: memoirs, documentary stories, country descriptions, etc. It's not fiction. Does this mean that these works are not creations? More time, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U175	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U176	Thank you very much. The outlines of literature and journalism are, in fact, blurry. The difference between an essay published in some magazines or newspapers and an essay published in a book is nonexistent, but in the eyes of the creators' and creative associations' law, these are completely different things. The main difference, however, is the place of appearance and the circulation, which actually speak in favour of the press, because the message in the press can have a much greater impact on the public. Journalism is an opportunity and tool for feedback from high culture. Didn't the war around Sirb, which caused a lot of blood lately, show it eloquently? For some reason, creative writing is always taught at universities within the framework of media studies; at the University of Tartu it is done on the bachelor's level, i.e. on the side of more practical journalism. If the journalists who graduated from the university are not creative, let us ask why. Why do documentaries learn how to write a script? Still because journalism is also a creation, a true, fact-based creation. The question is wider: what media and journalist do we really want to see in our society? Is it wise, understanding, meaningful, creative and courageous, or is it enough for us to "ink" compile police statistics, mediate government positions, and not express personal opinion? Although many creative federations and creative people in Europe are not defined by law, let us admit that Scandinavian journalists' associations are creative associations, especially through grants and scholarships and the selection of candidates. There are separate departments for freelance journalists in Finland, Sweden and also Norway. After all, let us ask who Juhan Mirror is. Juhan Peegel is like our dear papa Jannsen and other famous journalists excluded from the cultural story. Juhan Peegel, in the yearbook 2010/2011 of the Estonian Association of Academic Journalism, says simply and clearly about journalistic creation: the creation is that it allows us to deal with life's problems in a novel way. On the other hand, by accepting the press's requirement of fact-based, yet seeing the creations there too, Juhan Peegel says: 'Animaling is that, and only if you put down one part of yourself on this particular occasion, the majority and even all: anger, aggression, protection, laughter, gaze, compassion, natural wit, or what is necessary in this case. ' As the decision to recognise or refuse recognition of the Creative Union is taken by the Minister of Culture, the Social Democrats propose that time be taken off so that the fresh Minister of Culture, with a journalistic background, can deepen the subject under discussion. The SDE Group's proposal is to suspend the reading of the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U177	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Five amendments to the draft have been tabled by the lead committee. Let's go through them. Amendment 1 is made by the Committee on Culture, the proposal of the commission is that this amendment should be fully taken into account. Amendment 2 is proposed by the commission that it should be fully taken into account. Amendment 3 is proposed by the commission that it should be fully taken into account. Amendment 4 is proposed by the commission that it should be fully taken into account. Amendment 5 is proposed by the commission that it should be fully taken into account. The amendments have been examined. The Bureau has received a proposal from the Social Democratic Party Group to interrupt the second reading of draft 522. We have to vote through this. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the motion of the Social Democratic Party Group to interrupt the second reading of the proposal 522. Please take a stand and vote. 28 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 47 against and 1 abstention. The proposal was therefore not supported. The second reading of Bill 522 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U178	Agenda item 13 is the second reading of the draft Act 523 on the ratification of the Treaty on the Prevention of Double Taxation and Tax Avoidance by Income and Capital Taxes between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Republic of Uzbekistan initiated by the Government of the Republic of the Republic of Estonia. Peter Laurson, member of the Finance Committee, would you like a presentation?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U179	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Monetary Commission discussed draft Act 523 on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Republic of Uzbekistan on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion by means of taxes on income and capital. a 3rd, 5th and 9th December. No amendments were received by the deadline of 6 December. The Committee on Monetary Affairs made a consensual amendment to the draft by supplementing it with the entry into force clause according to which the Act will enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the State. As a reminder, international agreements to prevent double taxation and tax evasion by means of income and capital taxes will be ratified by law. These agreements generally follow a standard agreement drawn up by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. The Commission asked why the agreement with Uzbekistan concerns capital duty, normally not covered by capital duty. It was answered that, as there is no capital tax in Estonia, we do not offer it in our model, as the property tax has been introduced in Uzbekistan, the agreement applies to both income tax and capital tax. The double taxation article states that in the case of an Estonian resident, we avoid double taxation if the resident receives income or if he or she has assets that have been taxed in Uzbekistan. In the case of property, this provision will only apply if Estonia starts collecting property tax. Since we don't have such a tax now, there's nothing to free the resident from. The Commission made consensual decisions to make the following proposals: to place the draft on the agenda on 11 December, to close the second reading and to put the draft to a final vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U180	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Peter Laurson. Any requests? There's no call. Let us examine the amendment. This has been done by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The proposal of the Steering Committee is that this amendment should be fully taken into account. The amendment has been examined. The proposal of the commission is that the second reading of draft 523 should be closed and put to the final vote. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will vote in the final vote on the draft Act 523 on the ratification of the Treaty on the Prevention of Double Taxation and Tax Avoidance by Income and Capital Taxes between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Republic of Uzbekistan. Please take a stand and vote. 41 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U181	Agenda item 14 is the second reading of the draft Act 537 on the ratification of the Treaty on the prevention of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Kingdom of Bahrain. I would like a presentation by Peter Laurson, member of the Chair of the Monetary Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U182	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Monetary Commission discussed the draft Act on the ratification of the Treaty on the prevention of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Kingdom of Bahrain in 537 s. a 3rd, 5th and 9th December. No proposals were received by 6 December when the deadline for tabling amendments was set. The Committee on Monetary Affairs made a consensual amendment to the draft by supplementing it with the entry into force clause according to which the Act will enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the State. As a reminder, international agreements to prevent double taxation and tax evasion by means of income and capital taxes will be ratified by law. These agreements generally follow a standard agreement drawn up by the OECD. The Commission made consensual decisions to make the following proposals: to put the draft on the agenda. a On 11 December, the second reading shall be closed and the draft shall be put to the final vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U183	Please, Thomas Tõniste, question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U184	Thank you. Estonian entrepreneurs are of great interest where the Kingdom of Bahrain is located.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U185	There's an archipelago next to Africa, if you look at the map, it's on the right.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U186	Thank you. Marko Mihkelson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U187	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. I thought Peter was just making a Christmas joke. Bahrain is located in the Persian Gulf.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U188	There was no question, it was a line. No further questions. Thank you very much, Peter Laurson. Is there a desire to negotiate? There's no call. On the draft, the commission has tabled one amendment, and we will review it. Amendment 1 is from the Committee on Monetary Affairs and this proposal has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. The proposal of the commission is that the second reading of draft 537 should be closed and put to the final vote. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting in the final vote on draft Act 537 on ratification of the Treaty on the Prevention of Double Taxation and Prevention of Tax Avoidance between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of Bahrain. Please take a stand and vote. 38 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U189	The last item on our agenda today is the second reading of the draft Act 538 on the ratification of the Treaty on the Prevention of Double Taxation and Tax Avoidance by Income Tax between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand, initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia. I would like a speech from Peter Laurson, member of the Monetary Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U190	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the draft Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand on the prevention of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion in 538 s. a 3rd, 5th and 9th December. No amendments were received by 6 December. The Committee on Monetary Affairs made one consensual amendment to the draft by supplementing it by the date of entry into force, according to which the Act will enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the State. Like the drafts previously presented today, the initiation of this draft is due to the ratification by law of international agreements to prevent double taxation and to prevent tax evasion by means of income and capital taxes. These agreements generally follow a standard agreement drawn up by the OECD. The Commission made consensual decisions to make the following proposals: to place the draft on the agenda on 11 December, to close the second reading and to put the draft to a final vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U191	Thank you. You have questions. Please, Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U192	Thank you. Dear waitress, I know where the Kingdom of Thailand is, I'm not going to ask, but I have a question about the amount of corporation tax in Thailand. If you're going to answer, maybe you can tell me how much VAT there is.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U193	I don't know. It was not discussed by the Commission; it was not an issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U194	Thank you. Please, Paul-Eerik Rummo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U195	Thank you. Dear waitress, In Thailand, as we know, there are very serious civil unrests and demands for Parliament to be dissolved. Has it already disbanded? I didn't even know that. What is the prospect that the Thai Parliament, which does not currently exist, will also ratify this Treaty, as we are doing today? What if it doesn't work?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U196	I think our fears and expectations are the same. We hope that everything will go well and that the Treaty will be ratified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-12-11_U197	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Peter Laurson. Any requests? There's no call. There is one amendment to the draft, which has been tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Let's go through it. The proposal of the Steering Committee is that this amendment should be fully taken into account. The amendment has been examined. The proposal of the commission is that the second reading of draft 538 should be closed and put to the final vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I will vote in the final vote on the draft Act 538 on ratification of the Treaty on the Prevention of Double Taxation and Prevention of Tax Avoidance between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand, initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia. Please take a stand and vote. 41 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, with no votes against or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda has been exhausted and the sitting closed. I wish you all a lovely evening. Closure of the sitting at 4:37 p.m.
