ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will start the 17th working week Tuesday session of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. Dear colleagues, the sitting cannot begin, so much noise is in the hall! Is there a desire to hand over drafts and inquiries? It is not recommended to hand over any drafts or requests for information. Let's go to the messages. On Wednesday 12 June, the following members of the government will attend Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts and Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Now, please, let's do the presence check! 85 members of the Riigikogu have been registered, 16 are missing. Let's go to today's agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U2	We will begin the third reading of the Bill 382 of Amendment to the Law on the Organisation of Government of Paldiski initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union. Is there a desire to open negotiations? There is no wish for negotiation. Let's go to the final vote. The commission's proposal is to adopt draft 382 as a law. Ladies and gentlemen, we are preparing for the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft law amending the Law on the Organisation of Government of Paldiski, initiated by the Group of the Estonian Reform Party and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union 382. Please take a stand and vote. 87 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no one was against or impartial. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U3	Today's second item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Penal Register Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. The rapporteur is Kalle Jents, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Legal Affairs discussed this draft on 3 June. The Commission initiated and adopted three amendments to the draft law. The content of the first amendment is that if the final conviction has been taken before 1 October 2013, the current sentence and the repetition of the offence will be taken into account in accordance with the law in force at the time of the offence proceedings. The background to this amendment is that the time limits for the cessation of criminal offences under the Bill are known to be shortened and must not arise where the old judgments should be amended for certain persons who have been convicted of repeated crimes, such as repeated theft. The content of the next amendment is that the data listed in § 371 and 372 of the Act will be entered in the criminal records archives by 15 July 2013. With regard to this proposal, we were informed in the Commission that as soon as this law enters into force, the register would be ready to deal with these changes and to record the data. The third proposal concerns the modification of time limits, i.e. that the law enters into force in certain respects after publication in the Official Journal of the State concerning the entry of old data into the archives and the rest of the data, i.e. after publication in the Official Journal of the State. a 15 July. All decisions were taken by consensus within the Commission. It was decided to propose to the Assembly that the second reading be terminated and that the draft be sent to the third reading when the second reading is completed. There were 7 members of the Commission in favour, against 0. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U5	Thank you. You have questions. Please, Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U6	Good waitress! Previously, there have been claims from the Estonian media that the Estonian criminal record has been very generous, as most Estonian people have been registered for one reason or another. Will there be a significant reduction in the number of people registered after this legislative amendment? Can you possibly estimate how much this number is going to decrease?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U7	Yes, indeed, this figure is decreasing very much. I didn't go over it again, but it's in hundreds of thousands. Indeed, at present, almost half of the adult population is in the criminal record, either because of a misdemeanour or for other reasons. This situation is greatly improving, one might say, even by repeating.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U8	Thank you. Please, Väino Linde!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U9	Good waitress! When imposing a penalty for committing a misdemeanour, it is also important to find out whether a person has committed a similar act before, not only whether a sentence is valid or already extinguished. How easy is it for a misdemeanor to access an appropriate archive instead of a criminal record of misdemeanours to see if a person has ever committed a similar act, which is because the sentence has already passed out?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U10	The bill does not regulate who can access the relevant register or archive, but we asked for it. This was about the Commission's discussion, not this, but at the last sitting, when we prepared the draft for the first reading. We asked the Minister and other employees of the Ministry of the Interior. We have received the answer that private workers, such as the inspector who tries to detect traffic offences on the road, cannot access the archives. We had the same question that it could still be subjective. When a person's punishment is extinguished, that should be the case. The circle of people who can access that archive is very limited. But yes, these issues are not specifically regulated by this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U11	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Kalle Jents. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. There are some amendments to the draft, we will examine them. Everything is presented by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the proposal of the commission is to take them fully into account. Amendment 1, Amendment 2 and Amendment 3. The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 413. Second reading is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U12	The next item is the first reading of the draft Act amending the National Library Act initiated by Mart Meri, member of the Riigikogu. I ask Mart Meri, member of the Riigikogu, to present a speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U13	Ladies and gentlemen, The visible content of this draft is that if Eesti Energia raises the price of electricity or Eesti Energia's electricity supply raises the network service fee, then the cost increase must be compensated by the state budget for next year. This is a very radical proposal, the logic of which is based on the fact that, on the one hand, the National Library is an institution financed from the state budget and, on the other hand, Eesti Energia is a 100% state-owned company, a public limited company. The fees paid by the National Library to Eesti Energia are part of Eesti Energia's profits, part of which is returned to the state budget as dividend income. The settlement in the triangle of the National Library, Eesti Energia and Estonia takes place in a closed space and the impact of price spikes on the state budget, its balance is missing or minimal if, for example, Eesti Energia makes losses and increases the price at the same time. There are more details, but at the moment they do not really matter, and I really want to talk about the background of this draft, the prima facie invisible content, how rational austerity policy can turn into a corrupting austerity policy. In 2012, as a responsible authority, the National Library undertook to replace its Soviet climate system. It was financed by revenue from the sale of allowances. The new climate system is more efficient in terms of its functionality, but it still consumes 7-10% more electricity than the old system. The increase in electricity consumption was offset by other renovation works in the National Library, the change of windows and the like, which resulted in heating costs of the building being reduced more or less equal to the increase in electricity consumption. The goals of the National Library were reasonable and the estimates were accurate, and the total cost remained the same, but the conditions of book storage and the insulation of the building improved significantly. It is rational management and rational savings in its best way, but also in an inevitable situation where state support for the fixed costs of the library has not increased. Energy consumption was lower in 2012 in the National Library than in 2005, 2006 and 2007, but the breakpoint came in 2013 due to the increase in electricity prices. Last year's estimates showed that the price increase for the National Library could be about 20%, which amounts to some EUR 55000. And that's what happened. The budget negotiations did not result, reasonable savings were exhausted, and the National Library Council was faced with the choice of whether to shut down the newly prepared climate system, thereby undermining the conditions of book storage, shortening opening hours, further reducing the number of employees and also reducing the cost of the information society or adopting a budget with a deficit. Here it was a turning point where rational austerity policies would have turned into austerity policies that paralyse life. The Council approved the deficit budget and the members of the Riigikogu Igor Gräzin, Reet Roos and the speaker here, in order to signal the seriousness of the question, this draft was presented, which I am probably left alone to defend and explain for all the obvious reasons. Here, another important background to this draft. The National Library, as well as national broadcasting, as well as the Estonian National Opera and several other institutions, is a legal entity governed by public law. An open-law person has the right to self-regulation exercised under the law governing him or her. In other words, a body governed by public law is created by the will of the legislature as an independent legal entity for the performance of certain public tasks. The State treats an open-law person in the same legal sense as it does. The right of self-regulation of an individual governed by public law can be restricted by the State only within the framework of the current law or, if it so wishes, by amending the law. In this context, we are actually talking about the rules for drawing up, approving, implementing and enforcing the budget of a legal person governed by public law, as an example of the National Library. They are not too clear in Estonia, on the contrary. At present, their interpretation tends to be more confusing than it was a few years ago. We have heard the Minister of Culture say that the Estonian Public Broadcasting should not, with its budget, knock on the door of the Minister of Culture, but go to the Ministry of Finance to protect it. But they only raise their eyebrows to that point. We also remember the debate on the re-introduction of the unemployment fund's reserves. It is true that in the case of the National Library, the law obliges the Ministry of Culture to be a contracting partner for the conclusion of a state-support contract. However, as we can see from this case, this scheme has not provided a good, sustainable solution and, strictly speaking, the library is moving on a bankruptcy course. And for reasons beyond your control! Trends, calculations, consultations were done in time at the library. Perhaps this is a violation of the right of self-regulation of the national library as an open legal person or a breach by the state. In the Government's opposition to the draft, it was drawn up in the Ministry of Culture, it is said that the law, i.e. the Estonian National Library Act, is not an appropriate level to solve this problem, the solution can be found during the negotiations on the state budget strategy and the annual state budget. Yeah, it's right in theory, and you can agree with that, but practice doesn't confirm that. Rather, there is a need for a broader analysis of the budgetary formation process of legal persons governed by public law. This is also implied indirectly by the Government's opposition, as it is a legal entity with certain specific characteristics and, in particular, a right to self-regulation, who has been invited and has been assigned to perform the public's important legal tasks under the law. To sum it up. If the Executive Board of the Riigikogu had taken a little further into the content of the draft when the commission was appointed, the draft would probably have reached the right address, i.e. the Finance Committee. Or the Committee on Legal Affairs to find out whether or not this is an obstacle to the right to self-regulation and whether the nature of persons governed by public law is overly established or adequately reflected in legislation. Without being a fierce advocate of the mechanism for compensating price increases proposed in this draft, however, I see enough here for discussions to end the first reading of the draft in a friendly manner and to come back to the budgetary process of legal persons governed by public law in the autumn. All the more so since I have heard in the cost halls that the government has promised to resolve the concerns of the National Library in the course of clarifying the autumn budget. Let this draft be quite easily attacked, obviously quite easily, but with more profoundly important issues, remembering also to find a solution on the table of the Government Union! That was an explanation for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U14	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Please, colleague Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U15	Good waitress! As you said yourself, this bill is easy to attack, so I'm going to attack a little bit. You have now claimed from my head that the National Library is on its way to bankruptcy for reasons beyond his control. But shortly before that, you were talking about an investment that led to a 7% increase in electricity consumption, which required another investment in house insulation, after which the status quo, or situation, was achieved before the first investment. Wouldn't it be the responsibility of the National Library itself, of those who decided to make this investment? It seems a little pointless that you spend a huge amount of money to invest, you get a negative effect, and then you invest more to get back to the starting point.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U16	Both of these investments were still in the package. The National Library knew exactly that if it wanted to improve the conditions of storage, which is its direct task, it must keep the books and other materials entrusted to it in good order, then a solution must be found to increase the insulation of the building. I thought it was an exceptionally good-for-nothing behavior. The problem that electricity prices brought about such an emergency is not only about the national library, but we have all felt that way. The increase in electricity prices at the beginning of this year has touched us all. Simply in the case of the National Library, a number of things coincided in time and this led to a deficit that could no longer be balanced with the support of its internal reserves.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U17	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U18	Good waitress! Unfortunately, there has been a great deal of misunderstanding and confusion about this subject. For example, the opening-up of the electricity market has been said, but this opening-up of the market did not have any effect on anyone's position there or there. In fact, the price of the network service was simply increased coldly. We can see that we have Eesti Energia, who has screwed up Enefit technology, as we have learned today, for a couple of years. There is nothing to gain in Utah, and in Jordan the king has also begun to hesitate, as we have noticed recently. And yet Eesti Energia receives and receives and receives and peels and peels and peels. Please tell me if it is such a general political trend that Eesti Energia should take as much as it can, and we will take away from cultural institutions the little that they have!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U19	Yes, we could start a discussion in the Committee on Culture on how the activities of Eesti Energia either support or inhibit the development of Estonian culture. It is a difficult issue whether or not it is right. Eesti Energia is a state company, so we have the opportunity to discuss, decide and resolve these matters.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U20	Thank you. Please, Valdo Randpere, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U21	There's no way to stop asking when the story went to Utah and God knows where. For years, it has been said in Estonia that we are very ineffective in electricity consumption. We consume more times per household than in Finland, for example. It has always been said that our main option of saving is that we should consume electricity more effectively. But here you come and say you made an investment that increased electricity consumption, and then you blame the country for the increase in electricity costs. I think it's a bit of a disclaimer of responsibility. Don't you think you've done something wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U22	I repeat, the situation in the national library has improved considerably as a result of these investments. This is not so clear that every cost must generate revenue, the cost may also lead to substantial benefits. That's exactly the case with the National Library. So I don't agree with the position of your question. I think the National Library has, as far as it can, done precisely by being good-for-nothing. Here's just the kind of coincidence that has created the situation that this year's budget is negative.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U23	Thank you. Please, Kalev Lillo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U24	Dear waitress, You mentioned in your report that the Council adopted a budget with a deficit. How often does your Council adopt deficit budgets, and was there no way to balance the budget?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U25	I'm a relatively fresh member of the National Library Council. I hope that during the negotiations, Igor Gräzin, President of the National Library Council, will also take the floor, who has actually been chairing these matters there for years. I think the adoption of a minus budget is very, very exceptional. I believe that we can count these cases on the fingers of one hand in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U26	Thank you. Please, Igor Gräzin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U27	I want to clarify one thing. My colleague, Valdo Randpere, is saying that a warm room and a window and things like that, so that the dog can be warm in the moon, it's all nice. Is the library specific because there are things that cannot be restored? Are we likely to get our budget balance if, for example, we just throw away the Wanradt-Koell catechism from the 17th century? And throw away the engravings too, it would really be very, very cheap to live. Is that the way out? Anyway, then we would know that we have a balanced budget and, luckily, we no longer have cultural history that will demand money again after that.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U28	I really assumed that the members of the Riigikogu knew what the role of the National Library was and what the treasures were in its repositories. I expected them to know that it was our common duty to preserve this property as well as possible. The National Library is acting specifically for the purpose of carrying out the task assigned to it by law. He must preserve this property, which is indeed rare, as well as possible, and not only for us members of the Riigikogu, but for the entire people of Estonia, and not only today, but for the next few hundred years. So it is totally unacceptable to take a very mercantile view of the matter. There are other rules of the game in the background. I'm sorry, Valdo, but that's the way it is.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U29	Thank you. Please, Tiina Lock-Tramberg!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U30	By fully valuing the role of the National Library in Estonian culture, I would like to ask the following question. If a deficit budget is still adopted, have you thought about plan B? Does the National Library even have the opportunity to launch Plan B on how to fill the deficit in case there is no support from the State?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U31	This is plan B for the climate system to go off. And the following plan C is already pretty dark. The solution is still normal needs-based budget negotiations, which did not succeed this time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U32	Thank you. Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U33	Dear waitress, I understand that this is a serious problem and a major concern. When preparing this draft, and before coming to the Riigikogu, did you have information about whether other foundations of major importance have problems with energy costs, with the ability to cover them? Do you have any examples?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U34	I do not currently have a concrete example based on figures. It is well known that a rational austerity policy that we have pursued in society and in the country more widely for years has a breaking point, as I said in my report, where this rational austerity is already turning into a corrupting austerity policy that hinders the functioning of society. Care must be taken not to reach this breaking point, because climbing back from that point is much more costly than covering extraordinary needs, even exceptionally, as is currently required in the case of the National Library.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U35	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U36	Good waitress, would you mind telling me why Mr Gräzin is attacking you so emotionally? I remember there were more draft authors in the beginning. You didn't ask him to withdraw his signature from this bill, did you?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U37	No, I wasn't the one who asked or demanded his withdrawal from this bill. I hope that Mr Gräzin will speak during the negotiations and explain his motives.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U38	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Mart Meri! I would like to ask Mr Klaas, Chairman of the Committee on Culture, for a co-presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U39	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Culture discussed this draft on 21 May this year. We had also asked the Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of Culture, Anton Pärna, Minister's Librarian, Meeli Veskus, as well as the Chairman of the Council of the Estonian National Library, Igor Gräzini, Director General Janne Andresoo and Administrative Director Mati Kibina. My colleague, Mart Meri, gave an overview of the motives behind the initiation of the draft, which I do not need to refer to more widely, because his overview of the subject was comprehensive. The debate in the Committee on Culture was very serious; it was reflected in deep concern and also in the desire to find a way out of the situation. We did not so much delve into world-view nuances in this regard as we did focus on practical concerns. As a result of the discussion, the Committee on Culture considered that a wider debate on the design of public law bodies' budgets should be launched. It is not normal for members of the national library council or the library director to walk around Estonia looking for their interview partners when they draw up the budget for next year. Such clarity must surely be brought to the house. At the same time, we found it not appropriate for the Riigikogu to make a law that concerns the budget deficit of a public institution without realising whether it arose as a result of an increase in the price of electricity or other price increases or for any other reason. Although, yes, it has been claimed to be due to an increase in electricity prices. The problem is serious, there is a problem, it is in the context of budget formation that the problem needs to be solved, but more generally for legal persons governed by public law. It is not possible to do so in the framework of such a draft, and so the Committee on Culture decided to propose to put the draft on the agenda today, but to reject it after the first reading. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U40	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Please, Jack Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U41	Dear waitress, As we have heard from Mr Meri's report, he has heard in the cost halls that the Government of the Republic has promised to solve the problem of rising electricity prices for the National Library by means of an additional budget. You have not heard of the cost stars, do the Government of the Republic intend to do so in the case of other bodies governed by public law, public authorities, or do we need to put forward in Parliament a specific draft for each institution individually?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U42	I have heard a lot of things about the cost stars, but we did not discuss what was said in the cultural committee on a specific issue. That's one thing. The second thing, I think, is that a comprehensive solution must still be found to shape the budgets of the public legal entities belonging to the same committee. I repeat once again, and it has also been made clear in the Commission that it is not acceptable for managers of public legal entities to go, like poor relatives, hat between their fingers, from the door of one ministry to the door of another ministry, and there is not much to discuss. Perhaps the exception here is only national broadcasting, for which the Minister of Culture says that their budget should be directly negotiated with the Ministry of Finance. Otherwise, it may appear that the Minister of Culture would like to control the national broadcasting in some way politically. But yes, we need to bring clarity to the wider house.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U43	Thank you. Please, Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U44	Thank you very much. I have a question for the Chairman of the Committee on Culture, which does not concern such cool spaces and this whole house, or concrete. I'm asking a question about people. These rooms are occupied by well-educated women. Do you know what their average salary is? And what do you think their salary could be?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U45	Thank you very much, Mrs Mikko, for the question. We did not discuss this issue in the context of this draft. But I'll tell you, we dealt with what electricity would use in this house. For this reason, Mr. Mati Kibin, the Administrative Director, had been asked to be present. It is clear that, of course, modern air conditioners are necessary to ensure the required storage conditions and to preserve invaluable cultural goods. It is only a pity that if an investment was made to improve the conditions for saving allowances for money, and this expenditure was certainly necessary, then the Ministry of Culture was not included or discussed with the Ministry of Culture either through the deficit that had to arise. That was clear back then.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U46	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U47	Would the Ministry of Culture rather interfere or help in the budgeting of public bodies?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U48	Vice Chancellor Anton Pärn attended the meeting of the Commission and we asked him whether the Ministry of Culture considered these institutions to be their own and to be responsible for them. He also said yes and confirmed that this situation, or deficit, would be addressed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U49	Thank you. Please, Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U50	Good waitress! One of the reasons for rejecting the draft was that, according to you, it was not precisely understood in the Commission whether the cost increase was due to an increase in the price of electricity or to an increase in the cost of anything else. How can it not be understood that earlier the bills submitted by Eesti Energia were smaller, now they are bigger, and that is what causes the cost increase?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U51	Rather, the question is that the increase in electricity prices as inputs may be different. The price of electricity changes depending on the market price and what it will become at the end of the year is difficult to say. It's just a prognosis. And to take a decision in such a situation that we will certainly cover this rise, this is more of a matter of budget formation than a matter of amending the law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U52	Thank you. Please, Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U53	Austet waitress! You said there was a problem, it's serious, and it has to be solved. At the same time, you propose to exclude the draft from the procedure. What is the view of the Committee on Culture that the problem needs to be resolved? Who, when and how will solve the problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U54	The Committee on Culture has also been in contact with the Ministry of Finance on several occasions. We believe that this issue must be raised in the debate on the basic law of the state budget and perhaps also in the debate on the State Property Act.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U55	Thank you. Please, Marianne Mikko, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U56	Thank you. I'm coming back to the librarians. As chairman of the Committee on Culture, can you confirm that during the autumn budget negotiations, you are standing up for an increase in the salaries of librarians?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U57	Thank you. The Committee on Culture stands for good working conditions for all cultural professionals.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U58	Thank you. Please, Jaak Allik, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U59	Dear waitress, One side of the problem is how public authorities defend their budgets, but there is also the other side. For many years, the increase in public utility costs has not been taken into account in the approval of public budgets. The first thing got sharp in the National Library, but the internal reserves have long been exhausted by other public authorities. Do you think, in the autumn, when the Committee on Culture is going to review the budgets of the Ministry of Education and Research and the Ministry of Culture, we should also raise this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U60	Definitely! The bill that is currently on our desk will of course force us to do so. I think it's justified. In the autumn, when we listen to sector ministers and consider their budgets, we need to pay serious attention to this.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U61	Thank you. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U62	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a very specific question. Here the answers could be understood that the Riigikogu should not deal with any specific electricity bills of public institutions, etc., but in the meantime, for obvious reasons, the idea arose that the ERR may have been excluded. When I heard that, I wrote down a sentence: the Minister of Finance would like to exercise political control over broadcasting. What does that mean? Please specify!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U63	You wrote that sentence imprecisely. I was saying that it is understandable that the Minister of Culture is not directly responsible or does not directly contribute to the design of the national broadcasting budget. This is because otherwise the Minister of Culture might seem to want to direct the national broadcasting programme politically. This suspicion is wanted to be removed. I hope this reasoning is understandable.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U64	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Urmas Glass! I'm opening negotiations. On behalf of the Group of the Centre Party, I would like to ask for a speech chair in Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U65	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Years ago, a strange joke went around the National Library. They asked how the National Library was doing, and the staff said, "Oh, very well, but next year the readers will be released, too, do not know what will happen! " True, the joke was at the time of the move, and everyone who made the joke was actually optimism and joy in their eyes, because everyone knew: the library is a box for readers, not a slogan. It can be said that this optimism is now beginning to decline, although no one doubts that the potential of the Estonian National Library is very great and not only in our own eyes, but also in the eyes of our neighbours. The library says he's for readers. But he's not just for readers. The National Library is an extremely important centre of national culture; it is a research centre and a pillar of the entire Estonian library. It is a comprehensive system of harmonious libraries. We have now come to a situation where the simplest old peasant wisdom has been forgotten in the case of the National Library. I'll just give you one example. Take this as a semi-random. The National Library has done a huge job, for example, digitising our newspapers. Everything that has been recorded in newspapers in previous centuries is available online. A Finnish colleague comes and says: 'Hey, you don't have any registers! ' I say there'll be some search engines, etc., but he says, but you don't have any registers. Actually, it is, but they're in the script. For decades, students in Tallinn read newspapers and titled each article; there are note catalogues. And it would only take a few cents, in addition to the very large sums that have already gone to implement the digital project, to take advantage of the great work that was done in the past. It's gonna take some money. If this money is found and combined with digitised materials and good registers, the information value of this material will increase by a magnitude. And the costs are low. Can this be done now? No, it's not because we talk like accountants. We're talking about heating, air conditioning, a box and something else. Urmas Glass, I hope, agrees. We in the Committee on Culture are struggling with the fact that when we talk about cultural and educational problems, we are told that so much became one box, so much became the second box, and so much became the third box. But there isn't enough money for the real work. The National Library is now in a situation where jokes are being made: 'It's going well now, but it doesn't know how it's going next year. Maybe you can't let the readers in anymore. " Just like a couple of decades ago, only backwards: then people had optimism in their eyes, now they don't. One more thing. The task of the Riigikogu is, of course, to comply with the law. We also need to know the wisdom of the accountant, but not only. We spoke today in the committee that the task of the Riigikogu is not so much to do one or the other or the third law as to see that society functions harmoniously. Yeah, maybe this bill, as my honourable colleague Mart Meri said, should really be withdrawn if there were a guarantee that the problem could be solved. But I cannot vote in favour of rejecting this bill in a situation where there is no solution and looking for someone to blame. Maybe the smart people, who do run the library, missed the books somewhere. I think that this draft law should be further processed and, more broadly, solutions should be found to the problems raised today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U66	Thank you. Please, on behalf of the Group of the Igor Gräzin Reform Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U67	I'm here like two qualities, ladies and gentlemen. I represent the group on the one hand and the national library council on the other. First of all, I will talk to the group. It should not be forgotten that the link between the Reform Party Group and the National Library is closer, more important and special than others. Ultimately, this is Ivi Eenmaa's project, his life's work. It was because of him that the National Library was born in this form. And the time when Ivi Eenmaa bust can stand there is not far away. So, to some extent, it's like a child to us. But now I'm talking about the matter and I'm trying to quickly answer a spontaneous question here too. Mr Stalnukhin, very right: the law is not appropriate to solve the problems of a single office. Right! Lawyers also say that solving an individual case is not a matter of law but of an individual implementing act. However, the problem is that the National Library simply cannot solve its own law and otherwise its concerns. The National Opera has its own law and national broadcasting has its own law and higher education has its own law, by the way. That's the only reason. Why these separate laws were made, I don't know. Heaven sees it's stupid in a cube, but that's the way it is right now. Why did we start changing that law? There were agreements. With regard to the Ministry of Finance, it is always healthy, regardless of the Minister, to raise certain doubts. There is never money in the Ministry of Finance, unless this matter has been written into the law in good time and if it is not in Greece. The financing of Greek libraries will undoubtedly continue; the question is Estonia's. And that's why this bill was created to put the Ministry of Finance, I'm very sorry, forced to find the EUR 50,000. Lember asked me how I knew that this increase in electricity bills wasn't connected to air conditioning. I'm telling you, look at the November-December electricity bill and look at the January-February electricity bill! Nothing is turned on, nothing is off, the average ambient temperature is the same, the employees' salary is the same, and the room temperature is the same for readers, but the difference is 5000 euros per month. In fact, Mati Kibin has rapped out the annual cost much more precisely than Eesti Pank has been able to calculate anything in the last three years. There is simply no other such finance manager in Estonia. Now, has there been a shortage before? I'll say it's not. Mr Tulviste and others who have previously been in the Council have never let anything down, and I have never done so either, because from the point of view of the state, any deficit, even worse, is to make it conscious, bad. This is the first deficit, and my colleague Mart Meri can confirm that we discussed it three or four times this year, whether or not we are going out on it. This decision was difficult and was aware of it. We're gonna shoot the budget deficit on purpose because the Ministry of Finance won't hear us. If it had not been for the deficit, there would not have been a report by Delfi and this debate would have been here today. It's done on purpose, at least we got this far now. Is there a plan B? I'll have three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U68	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U69	Yeah, plan B is. Mart said what plan B was. Plan B is switching off the air conditioning. What would have happened tomorrow? Nothing would have happened. But these deposits, which should have been preserved for 500 years for the Estonian people, would have been preserved for 100 years, at most 200 years. What are we talking about? I'll just give you a nice example. It's worth listening to. In the end, all the originals concerning the 39th edition of his Master's Voice, Benno Hansen, Artur Front, Alfred Cradle, all of them would have remained at normal room temperature and we would probably have lost them sooner or later forever. Is there anything else you can save? Damn it knows. But it looks like no. Dozens of people have been laid off from work, working hours have become shorter, work is also free, volunteers are used in the summer, whatever. I feel like I'm not really saving up any more. In reality, the deficit is EUR 55000 60000 per year. Let's see the end of the year. Finally, the National Library is not only a memory institution, but mostly a memory institution. If there is no Estonian Energy company in Estonia, nothing will happen to Estonia. Also in the Lembitu era there was no Eesti Energia, and Estonians lived. If we lose national memory and its carrier, then no one needs this Eesti Energia, no one needs to go to their dynamos and no one is there who speaks Estonian down here anymore, and there are no more books that only Estonians can read. That's my position. That's right, Reeda and I signed the bill at the beginning. But there was also a coalition agreement that this money was really allowed. Let it be said here that I have been told that the money is coming, don't worry. Then Reeda and I said, well, we'll take our signatures back, let Mart fight, the opposition has to earn their pay. Of course, this does not solve the problem as a whole. But why did the three of us pick it up in the first place? Because there are no more members of the National Library Council in this Chamber, that's why we got to do it. All in all: being in the coalition, but on the other hand the Chairman of the National Library Council, I cannot vote like this without further discussion. Dear coalition, I very much hope for you that, above all, with your help, this bill will move forward. But thank you, above all, to Mardi and Reeda for agreeing to do this serious thing. Take care!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U70	Thank you. Mikhail Stalnukhin has a line from the scene.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U71	My name and position were mentioned. Indeed, I stated that I understood from the speech of the President of the Committee on Culture that the laws were not made to solve any particular problem. The proverb says the end is good, all good. Then it should also make sense to say that the beginning of bad, all bad. In the beginning of his speech, Mr Gräzin said that yes, the law is not being made to solve a particular problem. I was wondering whether the first item on our agenda today, which dealt with the specific problems between Paldiski and another municipality, is not exactly such a case. So start bad, all bad. I guess that's it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U72	Thank you. There was no specific question, so let's move on. The negotiations are over. The commission has proposed to reject draft 407 at first reading and we must vote on it. Let's get ready for the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the draft proposal of the commission 407 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 42 votes in favour, 40 against and no abstentions. The commission's proposal has been adopted, and draft 407 has been rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U73	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the National Death Support Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of a member of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U74	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to report to you the draft law amending the National Death Allowance Act, according to which the Centre Party Group, with your support, hopefully, wishes to restore the funeral allowance lost on 1 July 2009. When it was done, we had a crisis. This support was lost half a year, and for a very large number of families, the situation became very sad, because cremation in the chapel, which is probably the cheapest method of burial in Estonia, costs around 500 euros on average. Our people have lost their funeral allowance. The amount of the funeral allowance at the time was EUR 191,74 and we would like to restore it in the same amount. I actually have this strange feeling of déjà-vu, because a year ago, in May last year, I presented here a draft with the same content. Then we discussed it for a long time, and I had this naive impression that the coalition would support this bill on the assumption that this support should be needs-based. Throughout the year, we waited for the need-based draft death grant to be submitted on the coalition side. Since this miracle was still not born, we came to the remote control with this bill and hope that this time it will work because the economy is growing, the crisis is over. We were forced to return to this subject with quite strong pressure from social workers, as there are still regions in Estonia where very many people give up burying their loved ones because they simply do not have the money to do so. I would ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U75	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thanks a lot, Yana Toom! I would like to ask Mr Tsahkna, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U76	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good fellows! The draft law amending the State Death Allowance Act 417 was discussed in the Committee on Social Affairs on Thursday, 6 June. This was presented by Yana Toom, Vice-Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, as a representative of the initiator of the draft law. The purpose of the draft is to restore the national funeral allowance in its form before 1 July 2009. The position of the Government of the Republic was presented by Marina Jefrosin, Head Specialist of the Social Security Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs. The government's position is not to support the bill. The Commission proposed to send draft law 417 to first reading by 11 June, i.e. today. The decision was consensual. In favour of completing the first reading, there were 3, 5 votes against, with 0 abstentions, which means that the Commission does not support the completion of the first reading on the basis of the results of the vote. The Commission also decided that the Commission's rapporteur would be Margus Tsahkna, chairman of the committee. Since the Commission has discussed exactly the same draft once as the exact same initiators, the debate was not very long. I merely note that, according to Yana Toom, the initiators have considered proposing a needs-based funeral allowance system, but this time it was decided not to do so and, for reasons of simplicity and clarity, to re-submit a draft with the content of the restoration of the funeral allowance. That's all I got.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U77	Thank you. You have a few questions. Please, Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U78	Good waitress! If this problem has not been resolved nationally in recent years and the funds have been allocated to it, then in real life, it is the municipalities that have gained such a very clear financial commitment. Do you have an overview of how many Estonian municipalities provide funeral support to people and how many do not?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U79	I asked the same question. The state envisages allocating funds to local governments to bury people who do not have loved ones to bury them, or who are close to them do not have savings to do so. The amount granted by the State to the municipalities last year was EUR 115041. There are 600 records of such a funeral. However, we did not have precise information on how many municipalities themselves are still covering their budgets and providing assistance to people in the Commission. However, it is known that municipalities are still helping people in distress in addition to what is foreseen by the state.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U80	Thank you. Please, Kadri Simson!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U81	Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, I have a question for you. A year ago, when we held a debate on the same subject, members of the government departments also admitted that there was a problem, and a promise was made that the government would develop a suitable draft of funeral allowances for you. Where's it going?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U82	Good questioner! Indeed, there is a problem. Even the amount of EUR 191,74 per national funeral allowance provided for in the draft of the Centre Party Group would not be sufficient to cover funeral expenses. Where this bill to solve the problem of funeral support has stopped, that is what needs to be investigated. It's somewhere on the Ministry level. At the same time, in the form that you have submitted the draft, i.e. to pay funeral allowance to everyone, regardless of the economic and social situation, the coalition does not support it. Rather, the problem must be solved in cooperation with the municipalities in order to help those in real trouble.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U83	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U84	Honourable waitress! Estonia has joined the European Social Charter and the Social Security Code. Funeral allowance is one of the types of social security that Estonia has considered to be binding on itself and, at the time, has ratified this point. I remember that we were once told that funeral allowance is too small in Estonia, and now we have lost it at all. Why does Estonia not comply with the principles of the European Social Charter and the Social Security Code?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U85	Good questioner! As I said in answering one question, the state has foreseen this support for burying people who do not have loved ones or whose loved ones do not have money to host a funeral. I think that the Social Charter does not require any state to pay 'disclaim' to all people, regardless of their economic and social situation. I do not think that this is a substantive point of the Social Charter.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U86	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U87	Good Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee! In fact, in the Committee on Social Affairs, you are quite right, we also discussed this need-based option. Reet Roos, if I'm not mistaken, asked about it, and I reported to him in detail what our proposal was. Can you tell me why the coalition ambassadors weren't interested in this alternative? And do we have any reason to hope that, under your leadership, the Committee on Social Affairs will initiate this need-based draft of funeral allowance?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U88	Good questioner! As you said, a coalition politician named Reet Roos really wondered what your possible alternative proposal was. And indeed, this proposal sounded like an introduction, not a concrete proposal. I do not think that we are discussing the issue of funeral allowance for the last time in this Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U89	Thank you. Priit Toobal, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U90	Good waitress! The draft we are currently discussing talks about funeral allowance, but I will ask you about another form of support. This is not about the end of life, but about the beginning of life, so it is about the birth grant. Laine Randjärv, a member of the Reform Party, has announced that there is a need to double the birth grant in Tallinn. At the moment you are in power at the state level, perhaps it would be wise to double birth grant in all of Estonia if your friendly coalition partner had come up with such a good idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U91	Good questioner! We really cannot deal with the issue of birth grant within the framework of the draft funeral allowance. But I would be very pleased if all subsidies for children would grow across Estonia, both in Tallinn and throughout the country.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U92	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Sing, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U93	Currently, money is given if the municipality has it, only to bury an unknown or unfamiliar deceased. No aid is granted to those who simply do not have the money and to whom the deceased has not left the amount needed to bury themselves. These people are in real trouble. We've heard of all kinds of cases. It still gives the government and now the two social affairs ministers an extremely bad impression that you have just given up paying the coffin money. This, of course, also concerns you as Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee. Is that just how numb we think of all these drafts out of the proceedings that the opposition is presenting? Perhaps, though, you are bothering to think about what should be done, what should be agreed or what can be done by both sides alone? You're just numbly voting down our proposals. Why?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U94	Good questioner! There were several questions. I will respond to the issue of voting off the opposition's drafts. On tomorrow's agenda, there is a good example of a draft by the Social Democrats concerning the cancellation of student loans for parents of children with deep disabilities. And there are further examples that the proposals made by the opposition have been taken into account in substance. I'm sure dealing with funeral allowance isn't a dull thing, neither is I. What I do not support is that we share support, even for those whose income is very high and who do not need it. I see the solution in that we, in cooperation with the municipalities, will be able to provide assistance to people who are really in trouble and that the circle of people who will receive this support will expand in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U95	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U96	Dear waitress, In the interests of the Stanogram, a correction should be made to the state's allocation of funds to the Social Insurance Board, which allows local authorities to apply for partial coverage of the costs of burying unknown and uninhabited persons, i.e. to the same amount as has currently been requested by the Central Party Group. Local governments can apply for this money through the Social Insurance Board, but they will no doubt add more. I don't have a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U97	Thank you very much for this clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U98	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U99	Ladies and gentlemen, Every time I read in the paper that the government does not support the amendment of the State Death Allowance Act, or I hear it in this Chamber, I wonder if 100% of our ministers really do not support this idea. Maybe I just don't have any information. Are there any exceptions to this government?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U100	The Committee on Social Affairs did not analyse the government's activities at ministerial level during the debate on this draft. However, I can assure you that this issue does not matter to the members of the government and also to the political parties of the coalition. They understand the seriousness of the subject and think along.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U101	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U102	Dear waitress, In reply to Mr Simson's question, you said that this amendment to the law is being dealt with and that you attach great importance to cooperation with local authorities. Walking around South-East Estonia, he hears some pretty sad stories about how they try to organize funerals. People really need this support. You have certainly received some suggestions from the representatives of the local authorities. Please mention some of the proposals on which the wishes of the local authorities are based. How do local authorities think that it could be arranged to provide support so that people can be safely expelled from this world?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U103	Good questioner! No concrete proposals have been received from local governments in connection with this draft. Of course, however, it is in the interests of the municipalities that the state should bear all the costs of the funeral. This would free up the resources of the municipality and would be of great help in helping people. One separate issue that arose is that if a person has saved his or her funeral and coffin money and if he or she is applying for income support, for example, if he or she has this money in a bank account, it could be considered his or her coffin money. This is one of the places where, on the basis of criteria, consideration could be given to whether or not this should be taken into account when determining income support for coffins. Of course, I admit that making this exception is extremely difficult. Where do you draw this line? But it is known that older people have one of the biggest concerns where they should collect their coffin money either on a bank account, as is generally recommended, or on a tight side. So there's a lot of questions. However, I am sure that the municipalities know best who need funeral support most, and I hope that if the country has the necessary money, this relief will come in cooperation with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U104	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U105	Ladies and gentlemen, the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee. The subject of funeral support has been addressed quite several times in this Chamber. Today you said that this is not the last time, the subject will be taken up. I think it's irresponsible that you've taken it somewhat superficially. And now you don't know where the bill is going. You don't know how much longer it's going to be processed. Perhaps, however, you will give us a more specific overview of whether you have dealt with it and have you personally asked some of the ministries how far to prepare? What has been your contribution to the death grant?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U106	Good questioner! My contribution is that I do not support the proposed form of support, support regardless of the economic situation. For very rich people, the state should not pay funeral allowance. As far as the funeral allowance discussions are concerned, they have occurred repeatedly, and I think that this is one issue that will never disappear from the government table, no matter which political parties are in the government. How far it is to find possible solutions must be asked again. The Ministry of Social Affairs is primarily concerned with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U107	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U108	Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs! I ask whether you feel as Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee that this problem exists in Estonia. And if you do, why haven't you found a solution? The Committee on Social Affairs is about providing relief to our concerns. Can you tell me when the solution will come, which will be suitable for the coalition? Or are they going to spend years discussing this in this room?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U109	Good questioner, I sense it's a problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U110	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U111	Good waitress! You did not answer Mr Tarmo Tamme's question about the solution. That's the first part of my question. Here's the second part. You mentioned the collection of coffin money here. As Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, do you have an estimate of what the percentage of the pension that an Estonian pensioner should put in his stockings to get himself a decent funeral? How many years does this collection take him?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U112	Good questioner! I really don't know how many percent anyone should put aside. I guess older people are smarter and they know that from their life experience. Well, it's a tradition we know. People think about the moment they leave this world, and they want it to be dignified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U113	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U114	Honourable waitress! You were talking about coffin money. But it's not just older people who die, it's younger people who die. What's your proposal that age should start collecting the coffin money? And is it like the second pillar next to the pension pillar? Do you want to state it so that all Estonian people have a coffin money pillar?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U115	Good questioner, if you noticed, I was talking about this particular problem as one of the many that has come to us as feedback from the Estonian people. I think collecting coffin money is still a personal decision. Our task is to help people whose loved ones are unable to organise funerals in cooperation with local governments. I firmly believe that people must leave this world with dignity.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U116	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U117	Honourable waitress! I would like to remind you that Tarmo Tamm's question hangs in the air about the solution. We're still waiting for what you're offering. That's one. And second of all, I still don't get it, I haven't heard any argument as to why this issue cannot be discussed further. Please, just one argument, which is why we cannot proceed with this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U118	I have said what the direction towards the solution could be. This direction would be to expand, in cooperation with the municipalities, the circle of people whose country is helping to organise funerals, who are in real trouble. This can be done if the country has the necessary money. As far as this draft is concerned, I, too, am of the clear opinion that there should be no state support for everyone, including people with very high incomes, in order to host a funeral. That is why this draft is not supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U119	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U120	Good Commission waitress! You have used the wording 'in cooperation with local authorities' about ten times today, and certainly in the social field, and in many other areas, this is essential. Unfortunately, over the last few months, there is a willingness to cooperate with local authorities and therefore confidence in the government has been damaged. I mean the unilateral changes that have come from the Ministry of Education. In view of the further welfare of the funeral allowance, how do you think the concerns of people in distress can be resolved so that they do not have to renounce their loved ones so that they can be buried? Is it possible to restore the cooperation and good faith of local governments despite the latest changes in education?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U121	The Committee on Social Affairs has not dealt with educational changes within the framework of this draft. You don't have to mix things up. But I am convinced that we should not draw a line between the state and the municipalities, because there is little difference between the people who live here. They have specific concerns and need concrete solutions. I do not now see the question of whether relations between municipalities and the state have deteriorated or improved. These must be partnerships.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U122	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U123	Honourable waitress! You said the funeral allowance should depend on the income. People who have had a high income should not be eligible for funeral allowance. But when you die, you can be in debt despite a high income. Aren't you confusing income support and funeral allowance? Income support is for living and dependent on income, but if we start counting income when we pay funeral allowance, it becomes very, very funny. The second question: shouldn't our Committee on Social Affairs still lay down the rules of the game? Cooperation with local authorities is, of course, very good, and that is what must be done, but the state still lays down laws.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U124	I'll start at the end. Yes, Heljo, I fully agree with you that administrative reform must be carried out in cooperation with local governments, also at national level. Here we have no fundamental differences of opinion. How to do that, we'll see it in the future. But the real solution is that if we look at the income bases of the municipalities, how many people live in the municipality, what its connection to the centres of attraction is, and at the same time we set out the specific services that people must receive everywhere in Estonia, regardless of which municipality they live, then certainly the funeral allowance is one of the problems that will be the most comprehensive solution. As far as people's incomes are concerned, I didn't quite say that. I expressed myself in such a way that it is important what is the economic situation of people at the moment when funerals need to be arranged, whether or not the deceased has left the coffin money and whether or not his family can have funerals. This could be a criterion.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U125	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U126	Good Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee! Most people who have died have also paid taxes or have done so for them by children or other relatives, and even if no income tax has been paid, then the excise duty certainly has been paid. In my opinion, the state should still support people when they have supported their country. And the ex-state supports by paying a pension for everyone, and just like that, you could pay a funeral allowance for everyone. If you are talking about the need-based nature of the funeral allowance, I will be afraid that you in the government coalition do not have to plan to make the pension need-based.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U127	Good questioner! We do not have any plan to make pension needs-based. Pensions will also rise next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U128	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U129	Dear waitress, You said earlier that you felt that there was a problem. So I ask you, as chairman of the committee, how long will it take for this problem to be resolved? I will be honest with you that it is already embarrassing to discuss this matter in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U130	Good questioner! I see that you are the last questioner and the debate in this Chamber ends. I cannot tell you a specific date, but I am convinced that this problem needs to be resolved.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U131	Thank you. Still, there are more questioners. Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U132	Let's be honest, in the context of death, to talk about the concept of 'need-based' is a little creepy. If we look to the future, five or ten years ahead, can you imagine that the concept of 'need-based support' is associated with the fact that some of the relatives have died?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U133	As regards death, the subject of leaving life, I absolutely agree that this is not a subject that can be joked about. But we have to face real opportunities, and that is why I have always stressed here that municipalities know most about who needs help and what kind of help. It may not always be just financial aid; it can also be a versatile other kind of aid. In any case, we must stand for the dignity of leaving our people's lives. There are no differences of opinion between us in this regard.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U134	Thank you. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U135	Dear waitress, In replying to the previous question of when this problem, even in the form of a need-based funeral allowance, would eventually be resolved, you said that you could not say a specific date. Maybe it's really difficult, and I'll ask you a simpler question: would you like to say the year number when it will be solved? It should be possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U136	The sooner the better. The next very good year is 2014, but it depends largely on the state budget negotiations and the establishment of the arrangements. I say the sooner the better.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U137	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U138	The rapporteur from the Commission. I did not, of course, think that you had dealt with educational changes within the framework of the draft funeral allowance, but you certainly understood the point of my question very well. You are saying that the issue of funeral allowance can be resolved in cooperation with the local government. Looking at other drafts that have recently come from the Government of the Republic, it may be feared that it will be placed on the shoulders of the local government without financial cover. Is the possible draft funeral allowance of the Government of the Republic bearing the same policy? Is the solution that local authorities will have to pay funeral grants to troubled families in the future, while the government does not provide money for this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U139	Good questioner! As you are very well aware, all the tasks that the state adds to the municipalities must, if these are additional tasks, be covered by money. At the same time, municipalities already have a number of responsibilities. The question is that some of the tasks are not specifically defined and are not specifically measurable either. At the level of the Riigikogu, I think that it is precisely in the interests of the local governments themselves and of those people who live in the municipalities and pay exactly the same income tax in each local government, but who receive a wide range of services, that we must undertake administrative reform. This is something that needs to be done by also resolving the issue of the municipal income base. Unfortunately, in the Committee on Social Affairs, and certainly also in the Committee on Culture and Education, it is in such a way that, when we discuss almost every issue, we finally come to what the administrative capacity of our municipalities is and how relations between the state and local governments are regulated. Here I do not blame the municipalities, we need a very comprehensive solution. It's getting bigger and bigger. I have the feeling that political readiness to find fundamental solutions will also increase.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U140	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U141	Honourable Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee! Your answers are to understand that you have all the information. You know how much the municipalities have paid last year's funeral allowance, you also know that the municipalities are aware of the background of the people, the economic situation in which they are in. And then, like, you're afraid that the wealthier people are gonna start asking for that funeral allowance. Don't be afraid! I believe that they are not actually coming, but of course fraud is not excluded either. I still have a question for you why you've waited so long for all this. You have absolutely everything on paper, but you have not wanted to deal with it. Do you really not understand what concerns people have, including the problem of burial?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U142	Good questioner! I understand what people's problems are.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U143	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U144	Honourable performer! I'm sure your answers don't seem to understand. A comparison of bad impressions will be made of your performance. But my specific question is this: how do you think local authorities should support people in funerals? I have two concrete examples from South Estonia, in both cases people lost their funeral allowance when I had advised you to turn to the municipality. After that, I had to support these funerals myself. How do you know that the municipality will come when a person submits an application? What's the big deal? Does the municipality have or does not have this obligation?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U145	The municipality has a duty through the state to fix the funeral of people who do not have loved ones who have been alone, who no one will bury. Municipalities have helped people in different ways. I cannot comment on the two cases you referred to. I really don't know these circumstances.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U146	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U147	I have a short question. You said that the problem could be resolved in 2014, which means that there should be an additional line in the budget of the Ministry of Social Affairs where these sums of money exist. If this is not the case, then it must certainly be mentioned in the country's budget strategy. My question is how the solution to this whole problem is reflected in the country's budgetary strategy.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U148	They asked me when it would be possible, and I said, "The sooner, the better." To the question of which year is the closest, I replied that it would be next year. I don't have any information yet on what's going to be next year's draft state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U149	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U150	Good performer, maybe you can explain briefly what you mean by funeral allowance. You have now pointed out, for example, that people living alone in the village, who, for example, fall down and die, are buried for local government money. But I do not think that this is a matter of funeral allowance and this draft. The grant is still meant for people who have to bury someone. We don't support the dead. Please open your answer!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U151	Indeed, applications are not made by the dead, but by their loved ones. Through the Social Insurance Board, the state has supported the organisation of 600 funerals amounting to EUR 115041.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U152	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Margus Tsahkna! Do you want to open negotiations? Would you like to talk about it, Marika Tuus-Sing? Please, two minutes on the spot!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U153	Ladies and gentlemen, It is embarrassing to hear the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee give demagogic, cold, indifferent, incompetent answers when talking about funeral support, even with half a laughter's face. I am surprised that the coalition did not have any questions to put to the author of the draft, but it was clear why to vote against. I recall that if this cut was ever made, the country took away 3.5 million at the expense of the deceased. It wasn't a lot of money, but it was still taken away, confirming that it was a temporary cut. Now we see that this support is not going to be paid again. And the saddest thing is that there are no plans, no plans, no solutions, no total indifference. From the dead, this government has saved up before. I merely recall that VAT on funeral services and funeral goods was increased in 2008. Everything related to the funeral from the coffin to the funeral, to the mourning service, became more expensive and so far. Very embarrassing! In any case, the withdrawal of the funeral allowance has left a very bad mark on the Ansip government and it is extremely unfortunate that our social ministers and the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee have gone along with it. Public finances should not be maintained at the expense of people's livelihoods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U154	Thank you. Any more calls? There's no more calls. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject draft 417 at first reading and we must vote on it. Let's get ready for the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the draft proposal of the commission 417 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 45 delegates voted in favour, 41 against and no abstentions. The proposal of the commission was therefore supported. Draft 417 has been rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U155	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and the Law on Administrative Cooperation initiated by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. I ask for a presentation of a speech chair by a member of the Riigikogu, Eiki Nestori!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U156	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! This is an exceptionally simple bill, the initiation of which is justified by the practical difficulties encountered by one of the labour market services provided by the unemployment fund. This service is a work experience. Work placements are primarily intended for unemployed people who have been without work for a long time, and just as life in other parts of the world shows, we also have a practical and appropriate exercise to offer them in Estonia. So what's the problem? Namely, in a purely historical way, in Estonia, those who practice work in Estonia have mainly been non-profit organisations. According to the current Employment Services Act, the only way for the unemployment fund to offer work placements as a service is by organising public procurement and, as a rule, finding a non-profit organisation that will carry out this event. He also has the right to control this activity. But it doesn't go well in the same way everywhere in Estonia. There are mostly experience and cooperation partners in this area, but there are also regions where there are no cooperation partners or even worse, those who win the procurement cannot do the job and, ultimately, there is a lot of misfortunes about the fact that these contracts must be terminated, to prove the breach of contracts, etc. We therefore propose that the law be supplemented by the possibility that the unemployment fund can offer work experience as a service in two ways: firstly, by looking for a partner who does the job, and secondly, if such a partner is not found, the unemployment fund can offer such a service with its own forces. The second paragraph of the draft is for the amendment of the Administrative Cooperation Act, as it exempts a number of public money-paying services. For example, rehabilitation services in health care, as well as some other services, are not subject to administrative contracts or public procurement. Working exercise is also a rehabilitation service, but it is different. Our proposal is to amend the law on administrative cooperation so as to introduce this exception even in the case of work practice. In the Commission, the serious representative of the Government of the Republic announced that they were in agreement with the amendment of the Labour Market Services Act, but not with the amendment of the Administrative Cooperation Act. Perhaps this first one is more important to the initiators of the bill, and therefore we agreed to send the draft to the hall in a modified form, i.e. that it would only include an offer of work practice by the unemployment fund. You could have deleted § 2. Unfortunately, most Members of the Commission did not agree, which is very sad. The Co-Rapporteur of the Commission will certainly tell us how the Government of the Republic will soon come to the Riigikogu with its draft as a result of the great thought done in the Riigikogu. Unfortunately, we are forced to say that time goes on and there are regions in Estonia where unemployment is very high. In essence, the unemployment fund does not provide this service in many places, as there are no partners. And these regions will then wait for the Government of the Republic to reach the Riigikogu with its wise thoughts. For my part, I dare call upon you to adopt this amendment quickly. It would move faster and we would not have to wait for the next year to change this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U157	Thank you, Eiki Nestor! Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I would like to ask for a co-presentation by Margus Tsahkna, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U158	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Good colleagues in the Riigikogu! The Social Affairs Committee discussed draft law amending the Employment Services and Benefits Act and the Administrative Cooperation Act 418 before being sent to first reading at its meeting on 6 June. Eiki Nestor, representative of the initiator of the draft act, presented the draft. The draft is intended to give the Estonian Unemployment Insurance Fund the opportunity to provide the job training service to the unemployed themselves or to conclude an administrative contract on the basis of the contract when purchasing the service. A distinction should therefore be made between the organisation of public procurement. The position of the Government of the Republic was presented by Õie Jõgiste, adviser to the Labour Market Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs. The Government of the Republic does not support the draft. The main reason is that the amendment to the draft would be contrary to both European Union Directive 2004/18/EU and public procurement law. At the same time, this is an issue that the Committee on Social Affairs has been dealing with for some time before this draft is put into practice. The problem of the possibility for the unemployment fund to provide training and work practice services is indeed there. This is linked to the fact that the quality of procurement for the provision of the service sometimes does not meet the requirements of the unemployment fund and the whole system is not flexible enough. The debate in the Committee on Social Affairs revealed, as Eiki Nestor already said from this panel, that the government is currently drawing up amendments to the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act, involving all parties. The government representative promised that they would come to the Riigikogu with this bill at the beginning of September. The Social Affairs Committee is ready to adopt the draft as a law as soon as possible in order to give the unemployment fund these opportunities. As regards the amendment of the Administrative Cooperation Act, indeed, Article 2 of the draft, which the initiators agreed to abandon, cannot be supported as it would run counter to the European Union directive and also to our own public procurement law. The question of the way in which we are going in Europe at all in the process of dealing with European Union directives and the principles of public procurement has been answered by the fact that there is rather pressure to reduce existing differences in the Public Procurement Act. This means that it is legally difficult, if not impossible, to find the necessary solution to amend the Public Procurement Act and the Administrative Cooperation Act. We need to find another way to do this. The Committee on Social Affairs decided to send the draft to its first reading by 11 June with a proposal to reject it. There were 5 votes in favour, 4 against and no abstentions. I hope that we will be able to discuss this issue in this Chamber at the beginning of the autumn session and we will be able to find good solutions together. Anyway, thank you very much to the Social Democrats who initiated the draft and took up this debate in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-06-11_U159	Thank you, Margus Tsahkna! Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. Since the proposal of the lead committee is to reject draft 418 at first reading, we must vote on it. Let's get ready for the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the draft proposal of the commission 418 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 46 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 41 against and no abstentions. The commission's proposal has been adopted and draft 418 has been rejected at first reading. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda is exhausted. I wish everyone a beautiful day, see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 11.50 a.m.
