ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the session of the 4th working week of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Tuesday. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. It is not recommended to hand over any drafts or requests for information. Let's go to the messages. Wednesday, October 9, s. a the following members of government participate in Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aaviksoo and Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Paet. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check! 71 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, no 30. Ladies and gentlemen, let us take a two-minute chairman's break. Proceed to 10.04.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U2	Break's over. We shall begin the discussion of the items on the agenda for the sitting.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U3	The first item is the first reading of the draft law on the organisation of health services initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws 481. Please present the speech chair to Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! I would like to introduce to you the amendment of the Health Services Organisation Act and the related amendment of other laws, draft 481 which transposes the European Union's Directive on cross-border healthcare. On 25 October, the European Union's Directive on cross-border healthcare will enter into force, allowing patients to receive the necessary healthcare in any EU Member State. The most important change is the right of persons insured in Estonia to receive compensation for planned healthcare provided in other EU Member States, prescription medicines designated and issued by them and medical devices sold on the basis of a medical device card. Under the scheme, the patient must first pay the entire cost of the health care and then apply for compensation from the Estonian Health Insurance Fund. If the healthcare received abroad pays more than the amount in the health insurance fund's price list, the patient must pay the difference. In Estonia, as in all other Member States, a national contact point will be established, which will provide information to Estonian patients, patients in other Member States and healthcare providers. The contact point will provide comprehensive information on treatment options in other Member States and existing reimbursement rules. The contact point will be working with the Ministry of Social Affairs and network-based cooperation will take place with the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, the Health Board, the Medicines Agency and other organisations and health care providers. It also cooperates with contact points in other countries in order to obtain and mediate information. In order to improve access to healthcare at national level, the draft introduces the possibility of using the cross-border right of patients in these specialties within the country by a ministerial regulation. The patient will have the opportunity to visit a health care provider of his choice in Estonia, pay for the service himself and receive compensation later according to the health care fund's price list. The amendments encourage cooperation with other Member States in the provision of health services, especially in border areas such as Valga, but also in Tallinn, in the diagnosis and treatment of rare diseases, in the field of e-health, in the assessment of health technologies and in the development of reference networks between health care providers and centres of expertise. During the preparation of the draft, very close and quite long-term cooperation was carried out with various stakeholders and government bodies. I am asking for the draft to be supported so that we can enforce it in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U5	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Maret Maripuu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U6	Thank you. Good minister! I am asking the same question as I asked in the Commission. The pharmacists are concerned that they are not defined in the draft as health professionals. What is the answer to them, and how is the Ministry planning to proceed here?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U7	Thank you. Like all major decisions in Estonian health care, we make the decision whether to officially appoint pharmacists as health workers and, to name it, which services to involve them and how to finance it, in this circle or at least in consultation with the circle of those involved in the good will agreement on health care and which covers all parties. Almost a year ago, when we signed this agreement, we set a specific date at which we will arrive at the autopsy and debate on the topic of naming pharmacists as health professionals. I do believe that, in essence, pharmacists could provide health services, and that is what we could call it, because, as we know, pharmacists already provide people with a very broad consultation service. However, in order for all questions to be resolved in the bud, a number of things need to be argued clearly. What kind of services they provide, whether it is necessary to set certain additional conditions and how to finance it, we want to argue all these details before making a decision. Misleading information is that the designation of a pharmacist as a healthcare professional is directly related to this Directive. The directive does not require or reflect this in any way. Therefore, as you know, according to good legislative practice, the draft transposition of the directive, which is by its very nature very time-critical, does not include issues that may create a slightly wider debate in society. I hope that the appointment of pharmacists as health professionals will give rise to a wider debate. However, we do not want this much-needed debate to delay the procedure for the very necessary draft. So, we are definitely talking about this subject, but we are talking about it separately, not within the framework of the bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U8	Thank you. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U9	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! My question concerns the free movement of patients within Estonia. Has happiness come to our yard now, and Brussels has allowed the Estonian people to choose a doctor freely in Estonia, or did we still have this opportunity?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U10	Thank you. We already have the opportunity to go to a doctor or health service provider that we like within Estonia, and I believe that people know it quite well. Even if you have a referral to a specific specialist at a specific health institution, you can go to another health institution and receive a service there. What difference does this bill make? He does not change yet, but he gives the Minister of Social Affairs the opportunity, on the proposal of the Health Insurance Fund Board, to introduce specialties in which it is possible to initially use the paid service outside the treatment order. Then the person will be in line, not with his urgent need for treatment, but with the cost of the operation, which will wait until the person's order of treatment arrives, and then the health insurance fund will compensate the person for the cost of the service. We have been debating a great deal about whether this is a solution available to everyone. I believe that the solution will be that, in terms of financing, this is a classic factoring solution. It has already been heard that several financial institutions have taken an interest in this so-called bridge financing. Perhaps, in principle, it should be possible to create a financing service such that the person himself only pays interest costs, perhaps a percentage of the amount of the operation, and the rest of the funding will help to make the financial institution, which expects to receive this money from the sickness insurance fund itself. Why is this an important change? This is important because if the people of Estonia have the opportunity to go outside the queue for surgery in Latvia or Finland, this may mean that this much-awaited and necessary money in health care that goes with these people through the Health Insurance Fund will go out of Estonia in the same way. That, of course, is not what we want. I therefore believe that this change, which has been introduced by private health care providers and approved by other health care actors, is absolutely necessary.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U11	Thank you very much. Please, Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U12	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. It is known that the average price of medical services in Estonia is four times cheaper than in the European Union. I don't think anyone's gonna pay for our patients four times the most expensive treatment in the country. I do believe that from other countries of the European Union, where medical services are much more expensive, people come here and block our treatment queues. I understand we have to do what we're doing right now, but now, honestly, tell me if it's good for us.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U13	Thank you. Yes, it is very useful for an Estonian patient because he has more choice. This is very useful for Estonian health care providers, as more patients provide an opportunity to invest money earned from foreign patients to treat Estonian patients. As you know, no Estonian hospital takes dividends or owner's income. Every euro that comes to hospitals in Estonia as income also goes directly to people's medicine. If these euros come more from foreign patients, it is extremely grateful because it helps to invest in order to treat Estonian patients better. It is theoretically possible that the flow of foreign patients may be so high that it will prevent the treatment of Estonian patients, but I do not consider it likely. However, should such a thing arise, the Minister of Social Affairs has the right to limit the influx of foreign patients to this particular specialty and to ensure the availability of health care services for Estonian patients. So this concern that you have highlighted is very easy to solve with very simple means. This claim that medical services are more expensive everywhere is not valid until the end. If we compare it with our northern neighbours, yes, with our northern neighbours, the prices of medical services are more expensive, but if we compare them with our southern neighbours, they will be cheaper once again. Let us take a simple example that will certainly interest Valga's hospital. There is no maternity care in a radius of about 50 kilometres south of there, or for northern Latvia, Valga Hospital has already been a completely significant maternity centre. If we take a normal medical case, a normal delivery, the price list of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund shows that it costs 778 euros, which is compensated for by the hospital, while in Latvia it is about 250 euros. There's a difference between two places. The difference is that the participation of Latvian patients is certainly not in percentage terms, but is many times greater than in the case of a specific treatment case in Estonia. There is also the difference, of course, that the opportunities offered by Estonian health care providers are much better thanks to these prices and that our health care workers' salaries are much higher than in Latvia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U14	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U15	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. How will the budget of the Health Insurance Fund be put in place in the future? We don't know the number of patients who are going to go abroad for treatment, that's an indeterminate size. How will this budget be planned? I think there might be some big surprises. As you said, prices in the south are cheaper and it is not excluded that very many patients will be treated in Latvia, for example. This is an additional cost in the budget of the Health Insurance Fund that cannot be planned in any way. How will it be put in place and how will planning take place in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U16	Thank you. Actually, it's the other way around. If the health insurance fund were to compensate for the cheaper service provided in Latvia, it would be useful for the health insurance fund. But I honestly say that I personally do not believe that Estonian patients would have a great interest in going either to Latvia or to Finland for treatment, because I think that the Estonian health care system is competitive both in terms of quality and price. Rather, I believe that the transposition of this directive is an opportunity for our healthcare providers. This provides an opportunity to export services that are precisely the type of export that the Estonian economy needs. This is the creation of the export potential of high value-added services. And going to Latvia for treatment would also mean for the Estonian patient that he has a much larger share than in Estonia. I therefore think that the interest of Estonian patients remains in obtaining treatment in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U17	Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U18	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! I have a very specific question. We take one specific medical service with a certain price for an Estonian patient. Is it possible that a patient who comes from abroad, where the service is paid much more in other money, will be charged a different price? In short, is it possible that prices vary depending on the country the patient is from, whether from Estonia or from outside Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U19	Thank you. No, that would be contrary to the principles of the directive. However, patients are allowed to provide more or less related services. Even now we know from the real life that those patients who come to Põlva or Valka to give birth live before giving birth and perhaps even after giving birth for quite a long time in a hotel opposite the hospital, for example, will receive a hotel service. This is not specifically related to the hospital, but the turnover of such related services will certainly be generated for the Estonian state and, of course, through tax revenue. Those tourists who come here to receive health care also consume services other than health care.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U20	Thank you. Please, Maret Maripuu, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U21	Thank you. The question relates to the proposal of the Estonian Association of Private Health Institutions. The bill states that the Minister of Social Affairs, on a proposal from the Health Insurance Fund Board, may establish a list of the health services that hospitals outside the hospital network development plan may provide by means of a regulation. In the Commission, we had a debate on the fact that the draft states that those who have a current health care financing agreement with the health insurance fund at the time of providing health care will be reimbursed. The question is, if a doctor decides to open a private practice and his service goes to the list that the minister has put in place but does not have a contract with the health insurance fund, whether or not the patient can go to him.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U22	Thank you. The simplest and most logical solution in such a case would be that this doctor opening the new practice would apply for a contract from the Health Insurance Fund and that the health Insurance Fund would also conclude the contract with him. We are talking now, either in the sense of private workers or in the sense of privately owned private workers, mainly about inpatient treatment. There are not enough in Estonia to be able to sign a health insurance contract with all of them. At the same time, we have also discussed the possibility that, in order to increase this flexibility, there would be a provision in this directive or in this draft transposition, that there would not be a contract for the Health Insurance Fund, but that there would be a presumption of compliance with certain principles. Both ways it is conceivable, but my personal preference would be that the requirement for a health insurance contract is included, but all private workers who fulfil the terms of the health insurance contract in principle would also have a contract for the provision of services within Estonia. I think that if we also have a certain element of competition in the health market, there will certainly be no harm to the sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U23	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U24	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Please state in which European countries the pharmacist is not a healthcare professional, but is a regular service provider such as a shopper or a shoemaker. If the pharmacist was still a health care worker, the state would also have an obligation to support, for example, small rural pharmacies, pharmacists, which would be very necessary. Why don't we do it? I have heard that the Chancellor of Justice has also wanted to take up this question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U25	Thank you. Once again, it is good lawmaking practice that the draft transposition of the directive does not include issues that are not directly related to its transposition, because the transposition time is always limited. We are also asking Parliament to deal with this draft as soon as possible. The appointment of pharmacists as health professionals is certainly an important issue and I think that this is what needs to go on. At the same time, it needs to be discussed precisely as to what it will entail in terms of the obligations of the state or the health insurance fund, which will result for the patient. As a matter of fact, I see here the possibility that the healthcare service will become more accessible to the patient if the pharmacist can provide one or the other service. I think this is the right direction in itself. There is no point in calling an Estonian pharmacist a shop vendor, as you did. However, with all due respect to the invitation of the seller, I must say that the pharmacist is a graduate, health-care-educated person who is fully qualified to advise you on what kind of medicine to buy and how to administer it, explain what possible side effects will be. I have also said repeatedly in public that I recommend that the people of Estonia trust the pharmacists. As the first contact point for simpler complaints, I suggest that you ask the pharmacist for advice, because the pharmacist usually does not have to wait a minute. This is, of course, the most accessible contact point for the Estonian people.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U26	Thank you. Please, Kaja Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U27	Thank you. Good minister! I will take up Mr Maret Maripuu's question and your answer to that. As we know, the Health Insurance Fund has not signed a contract with too many health care providers, or rather, not everyone has the same chance of getting a contract with the Health Insurance Fund at the moment. For this reason, the initial point of the organisation of health services has not been followed, according to which the patient chooses a health care provider if the service is provided in medical indications and the health care provider meets the conditions. If we take over this directive and the person can choose between foreign health care providers, could he still not be able to choose correctly between all Estonian health care providers who meet the conditions?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U28	Thank you. In Estonia, all hospitals with a hospital network development plan have a contract, which is 19 in total, plus a number of privately owned clinics or health care providers. Looking at those who provide inpatient treatment and who do not have a contract, this is not an excessive number. We are still discussing those areas where the potential treatment queues are very long and should establish additional national mobility. Where waiting lists are not awfully long, it is still possible for a person to choose freely which service provider he is going to. As I said, my preference is that more so-called private workers, it is not correct for the end as a term, but I think everyone understands if I say so, there would also be a contractual relationship with the health insurance fund. This is particularly because if I go as a patient to a privately owned service provider and get an outpatient or inpatient service from there, there should not be a direct difference as to how the health insurance fund pays or fails to pay for me. I am the same patient who still has the same desire to receive the service, and if I am insured and know that there is a high-quality service, why am I being treated unequally? I believe that the new contract period starting next year could bring more contractual partners to the health insurance fund. This is not an issue that I would have liked to make political as a minister. It is certainly not for the Minister to say what kind of hospital the volume of contracts should be, but as a general principle, I believe that the number of contractual partners could be greater, and that is also the case in the provision of stationary services.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U29	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U30	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. The quality of our medical care certainly does not force people to go to other countries for medical care, but it is the order of treatment. If the order of treatment is long, if you suffer long, then you must go to another country for treatment. Will such a free market prolong or shorten treatment queues for people in Estonia? I think he's extending. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U31	Thank you. I think it's more of a shortening. First of all, an Estonian person is also able to go out of the country for treatment, even though I said that I personally see a competitive advantage here in Estonian health care. Secondly, I will give a simple example. If the annual contract volume of one hospital is 100 specific operations, but in terms of spatial resources and human resources, it would be able to do much more and there would be 20 or 50 foreign patients, for example, then it would bring more money to the hospital. This allows for the distribution of fixed costs over more cases of treatment. Anyone who understands economic logic understands that this is why more money will be left in their hands. This money, as we know, is not going to be dividends in Estonian hospitals, it is going back to health care. So any euro that Estonian healthcare providers can earn from foreign patients is also appreciated for the Estonian patient, because it can be treated as an additional income, which also gives us additional opportunities. After all, it is no secret that other countries see opportunities in the free movement of patients, and it is well prepared to accept foreign nationals. I think that Estonia should also prepare for this, because, as I said, both in terms of quality and price, Estonian health care is certainly competitive.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U32	Thank you. Please, Rein Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U33	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You've moved around a lot in Estonia. I'm sure you've also been to and visited hospitals in the southern regions, or hospitals, and you know that during different periods the development plan for the hospital network has still been taken up. I recall the last time that the development plan for hospitals was taken up in connection with the provision of emergency medical services in public procurement procedures. The transposition of this directive will also be subject to an evaluation in Estonia, possibly in 2015 and every three years thereafter. Will the implementation of this directive in Estonia become one of the bases or the opportunity to publish an opinion in our development plan for the hospital network? So that in the case of hospitals where this directive works very well, could the development plan be amended, perhaps by offering them other offers?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U34	Thank you. Yes, if we take, for example, border hospitals in southern Estonia, even the same Valga hospital, then I see the potential of Valga hospital to provide even more services to Latvian patients because of its cross-border free movement. If one or the other specialty has enough Latvian patients to receive this service, this may mean and probably means that this particular specialty can be maintained for Estonian patients as well. Only the treatment of people in Valga County would perhaps be so limited that it would not suffer economically. In some ways, it can already be said that obstetrics work in Valga hospital thanks to Latvians, because there have been more Latvian children born there every year recently than Estonian children. These 120 Estonian children would certainly not be enough. The fact that 140 Latvian children were also born there has actually helped Valga Hospital to support the maternity department. I think the families in Valga County are only happy that there is a chance. Similar thoughts could be considered by Valga Hospital, for example, in orthopedic services, so they probably know what to think. Incidentally, the head of the Valga hospital has a birthday on 25 October, and I hope that the entry into force of this directive on 25 October will be a small birthday present for him in a transferred sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U35	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U36	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. It's very nice to see that at least you're convinced of what you're talking about. But unfortunately, I have a feeling that there are a number of concerned patients, and there are some members of the Riigikogu that you have not convinced yet. Let's try it again. If we take a normal person, a patient who is also you, then perhaps a person with a higher average income can go to Germany or Finland for example to receive some healthcare, because the health insurance fund does not cover more than 20% of this fee, the rest must be paid itself. In fact, the choice of choice does not increase for ordinary Estonian patients. At this point in time, you have such a modest chance that if you can no longer stay in line with the Health Insurance Fund, you will be able to attend a paid appointment with the same doctor this afternoon. Now these pay-per-views will be filled with Finns and happy Germans. My question is: how will my choices as a patient expand?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U37	Thank you. That logic is quite simple. In a large number of specialties, where there are long queues, you have now talked about outpatient receptions, but long waiting times are also in the standing room, not always limited to space or human resources, but very often limited to financial resources, that is the so-called monetary order. If foreign patients who consume the same service are in the order of money, I would argue that this order of money can rather be reduced by this. As I explained earlier, the fixed costs of providing services can be divided into more cases of service. If you take a concrete example, the same Valga case, I think that the availability of obstetrics in Valga County, thanks to the cross-border movement that is already taking place in this particular area, is much better than it would have been without cross-border movement. Or, for example, orthopedics. I think that the volume of orthopaedic surgery in hospitals in South Estonia could potentially increase significantly. Some hospitals, where this service is not currently provided, can have this specialty on an entirely large scale because the service area is not only one county but also a neighbouring county from another country. This is the place where the people of Estonia will gain access to the service. As far as medical treatment in other countries is concerned, I will say once again: I think that the people of Estonia will continue to be reasonable primarily to go to treatment in Estonia, but we have completely consciously created the possibility that, in the rare cases that may be less than ten in Estonia, for example, there will not be a separate competence in Estonia, as this would be an awfully expensive, but that patients will receive 100% of the treatment no longer according to the price list of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, but 100% in some foreign countries. For example, we have agreements with the Helsinki University Central Hospital in Finland. Rare operations such as children's heart operations are all carried out there, and these costs are really 100% paid to Estonian families if such operations are needed by Estonian children. Such cooperation will certainly continue because it is simply not practical to develop all very specific competences in Estonia, especially if there are fewer than ten cases per year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U38	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Sing, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U39	Thank you. Good minister! Once again, the status of pharmacists. I have great respect for pharmacists, pharmacists and pharmacists. That is why I have raised this question that they are highly trained, and since the queues in outpatient care are very, very long, the pharmacy often gets help. Wouldn't it still be fair to call them health professionals? The pharmacists themselves have been fighting for it for years, but unfortunately they have failed. I ask you again: how many countries are there in Europe where the pharmacist is not a healthcare professional? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U40	Thank you. I agree with the utmost respect of this remote pharmacists and I am ready to have you write it into the law, but I think the Riigikogu agrees with me when I say that simply declaratively writing it into the law is not the aim of pharmacists or Estonian people. The aim would be that pharmacists help to make healthcare even more accessible and that their appointment as health professionals will lead to some tangible victory for people. In order for this victory to be really felt, we should first describe in more detail what we want from the pharmacists. Is it enough for them to measure blood sugar? Should we also teach pharmacists, for example, how to give an injection? For example, pharmacists and pharmacists are not currently taught to inject in school. Believe it or not, that much drug-related activity they should not do now, regardless of what we write in the law. This is specifically related to the curriculum. So I think this is a very important debate. As I said, all these major, fundamental changes we are discussing with the parties to the health goodwill agreement, and I do not see that there is some huge opposition there. On many occasions, however, I see questions in detail. Of course, one big question is to what extent these additional services should be financed by the Health Insurance Fund. One of the specific things that pharmacists themselves have wanted to do in addition, which I think Estonian patients would have a lot to gain from, and which is being done in many parts of the world, is that people are being packed with different doses of medicines for the morning, afternoon and evening. I think it will be very convenient for older people if they do not have to give themselves all the drugs they take at different frequencies. Some medicines may have to be taken twice a day, some four times a day, and it is good if the doses are accurately packaged. This is such a fairly simple thing, for example, that is done in many pharmacies in America as part of the so-called sales business. I know that Estonian pharmacists also have an interest in providing this service. To the question of how many countries pharmacists are not health professionals, I would answer in writing, I can certainly check it out. I haven't looked at it in isolation. But I think that sooner or later Estonia is also the country where pharmacists are health care providers.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U41	Thank you. Please, Kaja Kallas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U42	Thank you. In order to implement this directive, the information that the patient can get, how the patient can access the information is very important. The draft establishes a contact point and the information or information is shared electronically and in a form suitable for persons with disabilities. According to the explanatory memorandum to the draft proposal, only one job is provided for the contact point. What is your assessment of whether this will enable the purpose of obtaining information to be achieved? On the other hand, if there are any further questions, there will be other organisational and informative things, will this one person be able to carry out this task?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U43	Thank you. Let's start with a job. If it really turns out that demand is so high that more people are needed, we will probably find a way to hire more people. The human power of the Ministry of Social Affairs is so limited and so much tasks so that we do not create a job as a reserve. We need to be sure that there is really a full load when creating a job. But I think that if an Estonian person calls any number in the health department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, or if he also calls the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, he will also receive advice. The fact that we have such an official point of contact comes more from the general principle of the directive that there must be one point for the various institutions, through which all information moves, so that all information is aggregated in one place. But Estonia is such a small country, and I think that in a human way we can sometimes get things done much better. If you ask the Health Insurance Fund or the Ministry of Social Affairs, no one will be left unanswered.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U44	Thank you. Please, Tõnu Juul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U45	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, The expansion of employment and earning opportunities is always welcome, and this directive certainly offers one option. Let me ask you a practical question. It is already a three-legged limp to get the money for the service provided to a foreign citizen. This is very difficult, and often foreign countries do not pay. After the entry into force of the directive, will the mediate role be taken by the Health Insurance Fund, i.e. as a foreign national, a citizen of the European Union is insured, then the Health Insurance Fund will pay out money to the service provider on the basis of our price list and then submit claims to a foreign country, or will this paper game still remain on the shoulders of the service providers?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U46	Thank you. I'm sure the Health Insurance Fund has a role to play here. As far as I know, they have already met Finnish and Latvian colleagues or are about to meet them to set the rules of the game. The reason why analogs or insurance systems in some neighbouring countries have sometimes been reluctant to make some payments is that they have to assess whether the aid they finance has been unavoidable. When it comes to planned aid, they do not finance it in accordance with the current procedures. If they now have to start financing planned cases, then I believe that the possibility of refusing funding is much lower. We'll see how it works in practice. Of course, the primary interest of all countries is to keep their health sector, which in this sense is kind of paradoxical, that the purpose of this directive is to create the right freedom for the patient to choose across borders. There is a certain conflict of interest here, but I believe that the situation will be better if foreign insurance is able to obtain money with less bureaucracy and clearer rules.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U47	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U48	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I'm interested in the question of prior authorisation. Will the centres that will deal with prior authorisation work under the roof of your ministry or at the Health Insurance Fund and how much time will it take to set up these centres?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U49	Thank you. All of this stuff stays at the health fund. I believe and hope that the Health Insurance Fund will be able to complete them by the time the directive enters into force and patients need prior authorisation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U50	Thank you. Please, Mailis Reps, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U51	Thank you, honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu. Good minister! We've been going over a number of issues now, but I'd like to come back to the patient for a second. I'm gonna ask you this way. In the preparation of this draft, have you, as a minister, the Ministry and the Health Insurance Fund, analysed the extent to which the number of contracts for the health insurance fund will increase with the arrival of these "new" funds and for the patient who may cover the overall costs? The fact that the hospital may be able to build a bigger wardrobe, for example, is also a good thing, but my question is how many contracts will come with it if, for example, nice German pensioners come here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U52	Thank you. This depends very much on how much one or the other hospital is able to sell out the services. I believe that these hospitals, which are just along the border, either south or north, will certainly be able to sell them. Also maybe those hospitals that are located in areas where there are a lot of summerers. Pretty much depends on each hospital itself. I'm optimistic of myself. I see that preparations are being made to take the opportunity to serve foreign citizens in Estonia, seriously. I'm sure that's a great interest in private clinics. It is very difficult to say how quickly, in what number of specialties, and from which countries of destination the patients will come, but the Estonian health sector should do everything in order for them to come. I think it is a matter of the next few years that the export of health services in Estonia will increase significantly.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U53	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U54	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I know only one Estonian patient who has gone abroad to perform an operation, either he could not stand in line or he did not trust Estonian doctors. It was President Ilves. However, it would be interesting to know more general statistics. How many patients did the Health Insurance Fund pay for treatment abroad in 2012, and what percentage of all those who received treatment in Estonia in the same year? One more question: how many foreign patients received treatment in Estonia last year?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U55	Thank you. I should ask the Health Insurance Fund to send you a specific number in writing. I can describe the general principle to you. This number cannot be very high in all cases of treatment, as there is a reason to send a patient out of Estonia for treatment, with the financial support of the Health Insurance Fund, mainly when it is a very rare disease, when it is a very specific operation. They can't be very many by nature; they're still a few cases. As I said, one such area is children's heart surgery. Adult heart surgery, both invasive cardiology and surgery, has been developed at a very high quality level in Estonia. Fortunately, there are so few cases of heart surgery in children, one can probably say, that it is not appropriate to develop this competence in Estonia in a very specific way, either from the point of view of the health care system or from the point of view of patients. It makes more sense to send Estonian patients across the bay to Finland, where there is a very large hospital at the University of Helsinki. Their service area is slightly larger than the Estonian population and they are able to develop this specialty in a very high quality manner. These figures can certainly be sent to you by the Health Insurance Fund, but in the total number of outpatient and inpatient treatment cases there are certainly not significant cases where the patient has been sent to treatment outside Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U56	Thank you. Please, Tõnu Juul, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U57	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, The relationship between the Health Insurance Fund and the service provider is regulated by contract, the exact volumes of work you can do are set. If a foreign citizen, an insured citizen of the European Union, now comes and receives a service, will it go into the same volume as the contract, or will it become an additional funding?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U58	This should, in my understanding, still receive additional funding, because the contractual volume that will be provided has been calculated taking into account the needs of Estonian patients. If the health care provider is able to sell the service to a foreign patient alongside it, this should certainly not reduce the amount of the health care provider's contract for him or her. It's still extra money for the hospital.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U59	Please, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U60	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I listen to you, and in some ways I share your optimism. The work comes to hospitals and clinics, but there are no doctors. For some reason, listening to this talk, questions, and answers made me feel that our patient's situation was getting more complicated, more difficult. There are people coming from abroad, probably a little more interesting in terms of money, and the queues are getting longer. Somehow try to reassure me that this is not the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U61	Thank you. Your concern is human and understandable, but I am quite convinced that this is not the case, for two reasons. First of all, the money coming from abroad is not much more succinct for the doctor. The rules laid down in the Directive state that they must not charge a patient in another country a different price than the price of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund. Therefore, there is no such intrinsic advantage. I think that all health care providers will continue to be interested in ordering the health insurance fund, as their largest customer, to order from them the medicine for Estonian people. That's one. Secondly, on the example of Valga Hospital, we have already talked about how foreign patients could help to keep one or the other specialty open for Estonian people. Thirdly, if we look at the economy as a whole, health care is very rarely spoken of as an industry, but I think it should be spoken of as an industry, then health care accounts for about 6% of Estonia's GDP. So this is a very serious industry. When we talk about the goals of the Estonian economy as a whole, our big goal is to export products and services with high added value. These are services that use a great deal of grey brain cells and, on the other hand, very little environment for nature-saving and grey brain cells using manufactured products and services. Health care is exactly that kind of service. What does it give us if we sell our service outside and bring in the money? This makes society more prosperous, allowing better pay for doctors and other health care professionals, allowing the turnover of hospitals to grow. And as I said, all publicly owned hospitals channel their turnover, all revenues 100% back to health, no one takes dividends from it, and I hope I never intend to take it. Therefore, if we can compensate patients by inflow and inflow of funds, or also stop the flow of doctors, this is a result that is certainly worth pursuing. It certainly won't happen in a year or overnight. But basically, if we have a choice in the European Union to accept that doctors go away and earn more money somewhere behind the border, or to create opportunities for them to earn a decent salary in Estonia, partly with the help of foreign patients, then I think that the influx of patients is definitely more acceptable than the outflow of doctors.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U62	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Minister Taavi Rõivas. I would like to ask for a co-presentation by Margus Tsahkna, Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U63	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Social Affairs discussed this draft at two meetings, on 19 September and 24 September. I am not going to talk about the substance of the draft, because the Minister has already done so thoroughly, but I am going to take stock of the debate in the Commission and of the main issues raised by the Members of the Commission. At the meeting of the Commission on 19 September, Minister for Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas gave an overview of the draft. The questions and issues raised in the Commission were as follows: The first was whether or not pharmacists should be health care professionals. The Commission will certainly move forward on this issue, as there is still an open question as to whether the directive still provides for the requirement that pharmacists are health care workers. After this meeting of the Commission, we have also received appeals and legal analyses in this area. So when the first reading in this Chamber is completed today, before the second reading, the Committee on Social Affairs will certainly deal with this issue separately. It was a question of how long the health insurance fund would be obliged to compensate the Estonian person for the medical bill received in another European country. This draft itself sets a maximum limit of six months, but the Health Insurance Fund has set its working schedules in such a way that the person receives this compensation within three months. In this regard, the question arose as to whether it is already heard that the financial market will be offered a so-called factoring service, i.e. when a person goes abroad to receive a service, he does not have to pay out of his own pocket, but some financial institutions so-called loans and contracts directly with the health insurance fund. Certainly such a service will come, but this is not the subject of this particular draft. A separate issue was what the directive does not directly require of us, but what the Ministry of Social Affairs has put into the draft, i.e. the movement of patients within Estonia. In my opinion, it is very good that, in addition to the mandatory requirement for a directive on patient mobility between the Member States of the European Union, we have, in principle, opened up this issue so that the patient can move within Estonia. However, if we look at the current funding system and treatment queues of the Health Insurance Fund, which are primarily money-based, which are not so much linked to the capacity of health care providers or to the 'work capacity' of our doctors, but rather to the size of contracts for each institution providing care, the draft also sets out the necessary limits so that our system does not collapse. The Health Insurance Board is able to propose specific services to the Minister of Social Affairs. If it is seen that there is a financial resource somewhere and the patient can solve his problem more quickly there, then the movement of patients within Estonia between health care providers is possible according to this bill. The condition is simply that the health institution must have a contract with the health insurance fund. At the meeting of the Commission, it was necessary to clarify the text of the draft law as to whether there should be a valid financial contract or how precisely the relationship with the sickness insurance fund of the institution providing the specific treatment should be determined. We can formulate this, together with the Ministry of Social Affairs, as an amendment for a second reading. Of course, there were concerns about whether Estonian patients would become second-class after patients coming from abroad. For this, too, there are possibilities for setting restrictions in the draft. Certainly, in this Chamber, we must look at the draft with a view to ensuring that, above all, our patients who have sickness insurance have access to the services, at least at the level we currently have, if not on the right. As the Minister has said on this board, if we can bring a significant number of foreign citizens here, this directive on the free movement of patients will give medical institutions the opportunity to earn extra money to improve their medical environment. A separate topic was the price list for patients who come from outside Estonia, i.e. the Euro patients, who will receive treatment in Estonia. The point of the question was that if we have a free market and, for example, patients from Finland, Germany or whatever higher prices come to Estonia, whether the price at which they will be provided is higher than the current price fixed by the Health Insurance Fund and whether this is not going to put any pressure on the health insurance fund to increase the cost of its services. However, it is stated in the text of the Directive that these services are provided according to the prices in force in Estonia. However, there is an opportunity to interpret the wording here, and this is something that we will definitely have to monitor in the next procedure. Broadly speaking, these were the main topics that were reflected. On 24 September, we invited interested parties to the Commission meeting to hear their views. Representatives of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund, the Estonian Private Health Services Association, the Estonian Patients' Advisory Board, the Estonian Medical Association, the Estonian Hospitals' Association and the Ministry of Social Affairs were present. In general, the Ministry of Social Affairs has worked hard on this draft and the parties have also been at the table. Very sharp topics were not explicitly mentioned. There were some technical issues at issue, and, as I said earlier, there will be a major consultation on the appointment of pharmacists as health professionals. At this meeting, we also asked the Health Insurance Fund's forecast whether the Health Insurance Fund's budget would withstand the opening of the market. Various statistics were produced from countries that have already agreed on the free movement of patients. Even between countries in the same language and cultural space, there has in fact not been such a large and massive movement of patients from one country to another. The Health Insurance Fund has currently taken into account the initial costs. However, if the Estonian state goes too well and the outflow of patients becomes so large that it starts causing problems with the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, then the state can impose restrictions here to ensure the fiscal sustainability of the Health Insurance Fund. On the other hand, if so many patients are coming in here that we cannot serve them or that there is a shortage of medical staff, it is equally possible to impose restrictions. One important thing is that a patient cannot, at random, simply of his own will, go to any European Union country and ask for a service there, but must have a prior authorisation and a referral. This departure has been registered in Estonia, we know how many patients are going to leave Estonia within the framework of this system, and that is what gives us the opportunity to act appropriately. The Committee on Social Affairs decided to send the draft to its first reading by 8 October with a proposal to close the first reading (by 8 votes to 0 with 1 abstention). It was also decided to propose that the deadline for amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 16 October (this decision was consensual). The problem is that we need to transpose this directive by 24 October, and in 25 it should already be in force. However, as Chairman of the Committee on Social Affairs, I would say that we would rather look at this in greater detail here. Nothing will happen to us in our relations with Europe if we do not reach precisely that date, because the draft is in the process and we are making progress on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U64	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? It's all clear, there are no questions for the waitress. We'll open negotiations if there's any requests. Please, Viktor Vassilyev, on behalf of the Centre Party Group. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U65	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, A directive, as always a directive, is expected from us to adopt it, and there is allegedly no alternative. I would, of course, like to thank the Chairman of the Social Affairs Committee, but most of all I would like to thank the Minister for an excellent, very expert presentation, which was factually very precise, well prepared and expert. Obviously, social or health ministers are currently giving the same speeches in many European Union countries, convincing their parliaments of something in which they do not need to be persuaded. Whether this directive is adopted or not adopted, of course, it will not change much. A similar regulation, that it is possible to go to Germany for treatment and that the Health Insurance Fund will later pay up to 20% of 25% of the cost of treatment, could have been created without any European Union directive, because no one would go there on a massive scale. For such medical tourism trips, perhaps 6% of our population is capable, not more. They've been in treatment abroad so far and paid for it in their pockets. With a certain standard of living, it doesn't really matter whether you get 20% of the money back from the Health Insurance Fund or whether you take it out of your company as dividends, as a non-refundable loan, just as thieves or as an accountant doesn't make any difference. 94% of the population won't win a single thing. In fact, the free movement of patients has taken place throughout Europe. Take, for example, a cute little state like Denmark, which is comparable to Estonia. In Denmark, health care is not entirely available, not all operations are carried out, not all services are provided in the same way as in Estonia for the simple reason that there is no point. In Denmark, for example, there is no point in having a heart transplant because the need is small, just as there is no point in training and supporting this brigade in Estonia. The Danes have always sent their patients to England, Germany and France for certain operations, there are corresponding contracts, the sickness funds are settling each other. There is no problem, because they have different health insurance rates of 10%, maybe 15%. Besides, it's a little different from health insurance. Many countries have not only private insurance, but also private insurance, so that these 101⁄15% are somehow levelled out. That's not how it works for us. The European Union is not always that pink and cute; it still has claws and fangs. The European Union in general has been created to regulate the market in order to distribute services. And in order to avoid any stylish movement of patients, this market will be organised through agreements between countries and hospitals. It will certainly be of benefit to somebody; Estonia will not benefit much from it. The Germans do not come here mass to treat themselves or to perform operations, because the German patient does not have any difference in paying the bill in any case, he will then perform this operation in Germany, England or Estonia. Why would he push in here? To some extent, they come to do research, because we have tomographers on every corner and they're really partially underburdened. So if the hospital can do 100 studies, but he's only doing 80, then he can do 20 studies for foreigners, except the resources, the money that the Germans, the French, and I don't know who else, aren't going to the Health Insurance Fund. Our resident doesn't get anything out of this, the sick house buys another tomographer for this money, and he's going to offer more service outside. Yes, indeed, this sector may grow a little bit in the economy, maybe it will create a few more places and only very, very indirectly, a long chain may then result in a little more social tax coming to the health insurance fund, but it will not save us much. You see, the economy of every country and the economy at all, as such, must have some kind of social goals and we should manage ourselves in such a way that we can play this big boy game. Yeah, these are the big boys' games that we're being offered to take part in. We're so proud to see the other boys play these games, we want them too. Except we're wearing shorts and we're not being taken very seriously there. Nothing's as pink as it's fed. This European Union is not so pink, soft and hairy either. There's always two sides to it, if not three. Like the flag of any self-respecting country has three colors, some are brighter, some are darker, there are darker sides of it. As far as dental care is concerned, Finns already come here for dental care for the money of the Finnish Health Insurance Fund. By the way, when a Finn comes here, he buys his glasses and gets his teeth put on at the expense of the Health Insurance Fund, and under certain conditions he also gets paid a boat ticket, because the Finnish state is cheaper when he comes here to do these things. In our case, one day, not now, but sometime later, it will be discovered that the market is open, that the health services market is open across Europe, okay, very good, but let us think about prices. France, Germany, even Denmark have comparable prices, but Estonia is dumping. I don't know what kind of mechanism or how, but then we're told to watch if you want to play with us, put on decent pants, and we'll be forced to regulate prices. So today, we are providing services to Estonians and Germans according to Estonian prices, but later these prices will rise and this will put very good punk on not only Estonian health care, but also the Estonian economy. Yes, the directive is a directive, and however we do it here, we must probably adopt it. But why do I, as a member of the Riigikogu, have to vote in favour of a matter that goes on completely regardless of my will? Yes, the free movement of patients is needed, but it is even more important to raise our economy to such a level that we can really provide our people with treatment, both here and in Europe, and there must be a certain economic plan that I do not see at the moment. I cannot vote in favour of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U66	Thank you very much. Any more calls? No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 481. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for submitting 481 amendments. a 16 October at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U67	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U68	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, One question you answered was that, in the future, health care providers, or hospitals, will have the benefits of a health insurance contract and will have their own income from patients in other Member States. I think that the health care providers that are currently more developed, Tallinn and Tartu hospitals will certainly be the preferred ones. There is a risk that hospitals in South-East Estonia will remain a poor child. And those who earn more can further develop the hospital. In order to compensate for such inequalities, will the hospitals in South-East Estonia, for example, receive more large-scale contracts from the Health Insurance Fund in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U69	Thank you. I was wondering where you were going with that question. I think that the hospitals in South-East Estonia are the ones who have the most to gain from the free movement of the patient, because they are located at the border of the neighbouring country and the citizens of the neighbouring country are very interested in receiving high-quality healthcare in Estonia. If we take any hospital in South-East Estonia, then they all have three types of income, both in Põlva, South-Estonia and Valga. Firstly, the Health Insurance Fund Agreement, secondly, the other national revenues they receive for other services provided outside the Health Insurance Fund Agreement, and thirdly, they all already have the benefits of treating foreign patients. There are quite a number of Russian patients in Kõlva and Võru who may, of course, remain, and the directive does not prevent this in any way. Now, however, these hospitals are also becoming potentially more attractive for Latvian patients, I would say, even more attractive. The Valga Hospital is already very much so. If more Latvians are born in Valga hospital than Estonians, I think it's already a sign. This means that the patients in Latvia have accepted Valga Hospital and highly esteemed it. After all, childbirth is an event where each family thinks very carefully about which hospital to go to. Therefore, I think that there are certainly great opportunities for hospitals in South-East Estonia. As far as the future of these hospitals is concerned, I think that their confidence will be enhanced most if they work closely with the highest-ranking hospital in their region, the University of Tartu Hospital, to provide various services. If it is very difficult to find a doctor in one field or another alone in Põlva, it is often much easier to solve this problem by working together with the University of Tartu Hospital. I am very glad that they are moving quite nicely towards this cooperation. I think this is also a trend in health care throughout Estonia. In order for quality active care to be provided locally in each county centre, close cooperation is needed, and this has been very, very successful in many areas.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U70	Thank you. Please, Inara Luigas, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U71	Thank you. Dear Minister, My second question is about Southeast Estonia. There will certainly be many clients for dentists, as we have a dental service at relatively low prices, for example, compared to Germany or Finland. In the future, how could the clientele of dentists, for example, be improved in the light of this directive and legislative amendment? There are dentists in South-East Estonia who serve Estonian people for two weeks and then travel to Finland for a certain period of time. Couldn't the Health Insurance Fund be an intermediary and arrange for the dentist not to go to work in Finland but to direct clients from Finland to the dentists in Värska?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U72	Thank you. That's a pretty interesting idea. Of course, I do not believe that the Health Insurance Fund could become such an EAS-like promotional network, although this is also quite an exciting idea. However, as I said in response to Lembit Kaljuvee, any specialty could have the direction that Estonian doctors must not go to Finland to do extra work and earn extra money, but we will give Finnish patients, and not only Finland, but also other European Union Member States, the opportunity to visit a doctor in Estonia. Especially in areas where the workload of doctors is not 100% due to the shortage of local residents. At the same time, the doctor would be very interested to have more work in the area, and the people in the region would also be interested, because if the doctor has more work, it will keep him there. I see great opportunities here for border areas. And, as I said, this also applies to all summer areas, where there are many summers, such as Finns or Latvians. We take Saaremaa, and it is also possible for Finns or Latvians to receive health care on the spot. It cannot be said that Kuressaare would have known what border city, but since there are a lot of tourists there, it is also a very clear possibility for a hospital in Kuressaare.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U73	We are going to the second item on today's agenda, which is the first reading of the Act amending the Local Government Organisation Act and the Local Government Associations Act, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group, 456. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the member of the Riigikogu Neeme Suur!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U74	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to present to you a draft 456, a draft law amending the Local Government Organisation Act and the Local Government Associations Act. First, for the introduction. Just now, in September, Tõnis Arro, chairman of the Estonian Development Fund, gave an overview of the activities of the Development Fund in this hall. Among other things, he spoke about the general state of Estonian entrepreneurship. In response to Mr Rummo's question of how to achieve the necessary leap in the development of entrepreneurship, the Head of the Development Fund expressed the hope that those involved would do what we hope will be doing a little better than before. Ladies and gentlemen, We have long been in a situation where solutions à la 'little better than before' are no longer working. When we talk about regionally uniform development of the country, emigration reduction, sustainable family policy, economic development, 'little better' is no longer good. As far as promoting entrepreneurship is concerned, there is a general social perception that the state and local authorities have to deal with it. We cannot say that the Estonian state does not have measures to promote entrepreneurship or that the state has not made any effort. Yes, it is. We have the relevant development strategies, we have EAS and PRIA, the active labour market measures of the unemployment fund and the Development Fund, but if we are not satisfied with the result or if the result keeps us waiting too long, something more or much better needs to be done or other things have to be done. There are a number of political documents in the state that stress the importance of promoting entrepreneurship at local level, whether it is the development plan of Estonian enterprise policy, the re-designed Estonian regional development strategy or the growth strategy of Estonian entrepreneurship. However, all these plans will remain empty words if we do not create a strong implementation mechanism. There has been a great deal of talk about the role of local authorities in promoting entrepreneurship. There shouldn't be a world-view gorge between the left and right sides of the hall. A large part of the regional minister's rhetoric on administrative reform is based on the promotion of entrepreneurship and how much local governments can contribute to job creation. When this draft was dealt with in the Committee on Rural Affairs, Mr Heinvee said that we all have the same understanding at this table. The Minister for Regional Affairs confirmed that we know that many are working on the subject, but we would like everyone to do it. That's the way it is. When it comes to the autonomy of local governments, there is a KOKS in the end, and no one is going to repeal it. Section 6 of the KOKS lists the areas that are considered to be part of the functions of local governments in society. This list could also include the promotion of entrepreneurship, with, of course, the allocation of funds for this purpose. According to the surveys carried out, the fact that the promotion of entrepreneurship is not an obligation under the Local Government Act is a major obstacle and a disincentive for local governments. According to a survey by the Estonian Chamber of Commerce and Industry last year, 70% of those who participated in the survey answered the question whether the local government has promoted or supported the company's activities, in the negative. According to entrepreneurs, the main problem is the lack of interest and motivation of local authorities to contribute to the development of entrepreneurship. That's what 66% of respondents thought. The lack of a legal obligation to promote entrepreneurship was 33%. In general terms, only one third of respondents consider local authorities to be business-friendly. Another third considers the attitude of local authorities towards entrepreneurship to be anti-business, and the third considers the activities of local authorities to be neutral or inconclusive. It is clear that the topic of business development is very comprehensive. How to increase the motivation of local governments by other general measures, whether to change tax policy or to implement other measures, these issues also need to be resolved. First of all, however, we could do the easiest thing to promote entrepreneurship at local level: to oblige local authorities to engage in promoting entrepreneurship, to set certain amounts from the state budget and to leave the municipalities free to decide on the best measures, especially in the local context. From this point on, it is appropriate to proceed specifically to the sections of the draft. The bill is laconic enough. Paragraph 1 of the Bill states that subsections 11 and 12 of the Local Government Organisation Act are added, which are worded as follows. Paragraph 11: 'The task of the municipality is to organise the development of a business environment and job creation in a given municipality or city. Paragraph 12: 'The financial resources necessary to carry out the task referred to in paragraph 11 of this section shall be allocated from the state budget. The procedure for allocating and using funds shall be established by the Government of the Republic by regulation. ' § 2 of the draft law makes an amendment to the Local Government Associations Act, adding the development of the county's business environment and job creation to the objectives of the local government associations. It is important to note here that the draft authors remain at the level of policy-making with the draft, leave their functions to the executive and provide that the procedure for allocating and using the funds is to be established by a regulation of the Government of the Republic. This point was considered problematic at the Commission meeting. However, it was considered that this was an obligation for the local government and that the amounts allocated would never be sufficient, and the question of how, to whom and how much money would be allocated would remain. Thus, the entry into force of this draft would perhaps be a new reason for the municipality to bring the central government to court. Yes, indeed, the development and establishment of this issue, or application principles, could also be resolved at the level of the Riigikogu. For example, we could take as an example the law on law enforcement adopted by the Riigikogu on 23 February 2011. The last paragraph of the Law Enforcement Act, § 84 "Entry into force and implementation of the Law', states that the date of entry into force of the Law and the implementing arrangements will be established by a separate law. We could use the same solution this time. But we can only do that if this bill remains in the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U75	Thank you very much, Mr Neeme Suur. Please ask your question, Mr Sepp.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U76	Good waitress! Browsing local government development plans, I saw chapters on entrepreneurship, both in direct and indirect terms. In fact, it is a matter of autonomy for the municipality; they have the free will to deal with these matters. Your report revealed that one third of entrepreneurs think that the attitude of local governments is friendly, another third thought it was neutral. In fact, then, entrepreneurship cooperation is working as if it is within the meaning of the Local Government Organisation Act. Here's the question. You also want to amend the law on associations of local government units, and to place the obligation on associations to develop a business environment and create jobs. To what extent do these associations act as NGOs and are not public law and what activities could you actually foresee as a person who knows the activities of the municipality?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U77	Thank you for asking a very good question. The fact that self-government associations are non-profit organisations created under a special law is a fact, and the fact that they do not have public law status is also a fact. We should take a very deep look at both of these facts in this Chamber, and at least the Social Democrats are convinced that this fact should be changed. Now they can do everything they do in the state they are. They can, for example, initiate joint projects, create marketing environments for the development of businesses in the region, promote entrepreneurship training in schools, link the labour market and employers. There are quite a number of possibilities in their current legal form. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, as regards the proposal to amend the Local Government Associations Act in the draft under consideration, this is about the objectives of the activities of the regional associations, not the obligations. If the regional union is also committed to developing the business environment, such a change of law would only support their activities.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U78	Please, Mr Mälberg!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U79	Good waitress! If local governments are now given an obligation to carry out business activities, how do you, as the initiator of the draft, feel that it would be possible to monitor the fulfilment of the public budget-funded obligation? And what would be the sanctions if the obligation was not fulfilled or there were no results in fulfilling the obligation, i.e. the business still does not develop?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U80	This issue directly concerns the implementation provisions, i.e. how the system should operate. In itself, all sums allocated from the state budget to municipalities, if they are not part of the municipality's own revenue base, are earmarked, in which case the municipality will report on their use and the effectiveness of their use. In any case, it would be a better solution if putting such an obligation on local authorities would also lead to an increase in their revenue base. The imposition of such an obligation cannot take place at the expense of an existing revenue base. It should be borne in mind that an increase in the income base is likely to exceed the pre-mortem rate of personal income tax, which was 11,93% before the recession. This would certainly be a better solution for the municipality than what is currently being proposed to allocate the corresponding amount from the state budget, which would perhaps be a faster and easier option. But the issue of the municipal income base we will probably be dealing with in this Chamber not for the last time, but also in the future.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U81	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U82	Good colleague! I'm also asking about associations of local government units. It is as if it were clear to the municipalities: the state guarantees them with sums so that they can start dealing with the issue of entrepreneurship. You don't see any money for the alliances. Where is the Union supposed to come from?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U83	The money from the alliances would come from where it is now: local authorities would pool their funds to finance the activities of the alliances. If local governments are given such an obligation and money is also allocated, the authors of the draft believe that a large number of these funds could be obtained through associations of local authorities. Promoting entrepreneurship is a matter of cooperation. And this is a financial concentration from the bottom up. At the same time, nothing prevents the Government of the Republic from creating a mechanism for direct funding of local governments. To be honest, this would also be a very positive solution, as it would strengthen the position of associations of local authorities in the counties.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U84	Please, Mr Sepp, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U85	Good waitress! I see from the bill that this entails state budget costs, but I do not see that you, as the initiator, would have liked to analyse the benefits. While you describe that all of this promotes life, do you, as an initiator, have a vague idea of how much it will contribute to job creation, the expansion of the business environment and, therefore, economic growth?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U86	If I had to answer that 'how much' question with numbers, I'd probably get into trouble. When we talk about costs, in the context of the current draft, the amount of expenditure should be determined by the Government of the Republic, which would allocate certain amounts. And it is foreseen from the state budget for next year's economic forecast at the expense of the growth of the state budget. If we predict that the budget will increase by EUR 37 to 40 million, as forecast by the Ministry of Finance, and if some part of it is allocated to local governments, no matter how much it is, it should probably be more than a sum that says nothing. And the revenue from it should not be less than the amount allocated.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U87	Please, my colleague Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U88	Listening to this debate in this Chamber, I understand that everyone in the Commission also seemed to agree. How does it seem to you, as the author of the bill, why do you still disagree with this bill, if people in the rhetoric would rather support its further processing?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U89	It got a little crazy for me, too. Indeed, when I presented the draft in the Commission, there was no situation such that we would have completely disagreed. People understood the same thing, and the Minister for Regional Affairs expressed clear support for this development. The regional minister's own speeches on the reform of the local government have recently also been very strongly focused on promoting local entrepreneurship. Fears relate in particular to implementing provisions, so that there can be so little unfair mechanism that it does not increase injustice in the country. Somebody gets something, and nobody gets anything. Doubts were expressed in this regard. That is why I proposed in my presentation the possibility of an alternative if the Government of the Republic is not to develop an implementation mechanism. This could also be done theoretically by drawing up a separate implementing law at the level of the Riigikogu. It is clear that the development of entrepreneurship is a very broad issue. If the government thinks that the implementing provision should be developed by the Riigikogu, and makes such a proposal, then the Riigikogu could do so. This may be the reason why the result of the vote was such. There's no other good explanation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U90	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U91	Good Neeme, the idea is good! So far, municipalities have been able to ask for money through EAS in order to build their own industrial areas. How do you see further progress now? It's like you're talking about two sides. One possibility is that local governments will put together money and through an association of local authorities, there will be an opportunity to start building an industrial area. The other option is that the money is provided by the government. Perhaps the third option is that we will find money from European Union funds and the state budget to keep this process going through EAS.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U92	Yeah, that's exactly what it is! The possibility to apply for money to develop entrepreneurship from EAS and other sources is currently available to municipalities. Indeed, municipalities could also use these amounts to cover their own financing. We know that finding money for that is not easy. Such a legislative amendment would support all the actions that are currently being carried out. Above all, it is more of such a general approach to legislation. If we ask people what they think about whether the local government should contribute to the development of entrepreneurship, the public will in any case say yes, should and could. If we specifically ask whether your local government supports or does not support entrepreneurship, the answers are different. We know that municipalities are in very different situations. However, such a central approach and the allocation of specific resources would in any case contribute.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U93	Thank you. Please, Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U94	Dear waitress, At the beginning of your presentation, you mentioned the results of the polls, people have expressed their opinion on whether their local government supports and favours entrepreneurship or vice versa. Municipalities are really different and the attitude is different, but opportunities are also different, motivation and will are different. However, please explain the form in which entrepreneurship can be supported by specific financial support for municipalities. Does it create jobs? I ask because, let us be honest, if the municipality has a will, no business in favour of entrepreneurship has been missed. But maybe you can confintize?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U95	I will start at the very last end of the question, if there is a will. That's right! However, we all know the current budgetary position of the municipalities. We know that the obligations imposed on the state and the share of revenue allocated to the municipalities are not very well aligned. Municipalities lack money to carry out their tasks directly under the law. In that case, the question is whether the municipality supports or does not support entrepreneurship. For him, it's either an extra operation or an extra cost that he does or doesn't do. We are talking about support for entrepreneurship at local level much more strongly than it is now. The best-developed administrative network in Estonia is still a network of local governments, and it is not right that this network is not at the level of the law to promote the business environment. The widest and strongest administrative network we have should be involved, at the level of legislation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U96	Thank you. Please, Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U97	Honourable waitress! The capacity of local governments across Estonia varies greatly between regions and between rural areas. It is more active, it is more passive, it depends on how the points of cooperation have been agreed and how the people who represent the municipalities can get in touch with each other. Do you think your draft will help to harmonise this capacity or rather the stronger will be stronger and the weak will still be weak?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U98	As this would also be a provision of resources and this objective provision would apply to everyone in the Associations Act, everyone should start thinking about how to promote the business environment in their county. In any case, this would strengthen the local authorities' current positions and give them a more coherent direction, while the resources allocated would also offer real opportunities to implement the plans.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U99	Thank you. Please, Aivar Chef, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U100	Good Neeme! I will continue to develop this subject. If state support comes, should the municipality and potential operators who are going to operate on the ground also play their part? Or do we just believe that someone could come and act, but the state will give you money? For example, there are seven entrepreneurs around Pärnu who would like to create an industrial area, the city also supports them, but physically there are few to start up the whole area. They need some support, and they've turned to EAS.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U101	Cooperation between municipalities and businesses has always been extremely welcome. All of these municipalities, who are enlightened, face entrepreneurs and see their future in the development of the local economy. This bill will give the municipalities a specific direction. This direction states that the municipality is obliged to engage in the development of the business environment. This situation you spoke of, describing a plan for the creation of an industrial area, is a very concrete example of how the municipality could contribute to the construction of infrastructure. He could help solve the planning problems that would certainly arise in this case, and if he had been given the appropriate resources, he could also bear some of the costs. I know that so far there has also been a programme for municipalities concerning the development of business infrastructure, but we are talking about self-financing. The resources allocated could be used by the municipality to cover its own financing.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U102	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Neeme the Great! Priit Sibula, Member of the Committee on Rural Affairs of the Chair, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U103	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Rural Affairs discussed this proposal to amend the law at its meeting on 24 September. The bill introduced us to Neeme the Great, who did it here in the great saal. I must say that the discussion in the Commission was quite similar to today. The questioners were the right number of members of the Committee on Rural Affairs, with some exceptions, and most of the questions and discussions were similar. As Neeme mentioned, most shared the view that all, including local authorities, had to deal with entrepreneurship. However, there was a difference of opinion as to whether the law should be worded in one way or another, and if it were to be substantive, precise and thorough. In addition to the author of the draft, Mr Siim Valmar Kiisler, Regional Minister, and Mr Ave Viks, Adviser to the Local Government and Regional Administration Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, were also present at the committee. The government discussed this draft at its meeting on 18 July and they made a decision not to support it. The reason was that the law is too general. It was thought that if the subject was so broad and the wording was generic, it might not lead to any changes in real life. The draft does not provide concrete solutions; the wording is unclear and misleading. In the explanatory memorandum, the initiator of the draft does not propose how much money this amendment could require and where and how it should come from. The initiator thinks it should be dealt with by the Government of the Republic. The Commission had similar complaints against the government: it is confusing, incomprehensible, slightly contradictory and misleading. In principle, the members of the Commission considered the Government's letter to be relatively similar to the Government's draft. We had the same substantive debate as in this big hall. Finally, the president put to the vote the draft proposal to close the first reading of 456. Three people voted in favour of the proposal and four against it. The Commission's proposal is therefore to reject the draft 456 at first reading. The deadline for amendments is 10 working days in accordance with the Home and Rules of Procedure Act. That was our debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U104	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Kalev Eagle!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U105	Honourable waitress! At the presentation of the capacity indices of local governments appointed by Geomedia, the Minister for Regional Affairs said that the main problem is the lack of motivation of local governments to engage in the development of entrepreneurship. At the same event, he also said that the more backward municipalities should think more about how to accelerate the development of the municipality through entrepreneurship. Thus, the government's own rhetoric acknowledges that local governments have to deal with the development of entrepreneurship, but does not agree to write this obligation into the law. If the solution we have proposed does not fit, what could be the solution of the government coalition? What is this carrot that would make the municipalities act as the regional minister dreams?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U106	It's hard for me to tell you what this carrot looks like to the government. But, indeed, there was talk in the Commission and, as you are referring to, the Minister has rightly confirmed on several occasions that this issue must be addressed. In general, it seems that no party has a good and concrete solution today.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U107	Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U108	From my own experience, I know that there are municipalities that are involved in this matter. They have no or very low unemployment. At the same time, there are local government leaders who are insulted even by inviting them to such a seminar. They're gonna tell us what our business is, what you're gonna call us. Even if the government doesn't have a plan or carrot, why don't we start by changing the law and start moving things? Where's the place that's supposed to start scrolling all this?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U109	I mentioned that different people had different proposals in the Commission. I understand that, in most of the opinion, the wording was such that this law would not bring about any changes in real life. In itself, you are right to start somewhere, but maybe we should still discuss and reach agreements that, according to the understanding of many people, could also lead to substantive changes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U110	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U111	Honourable waitress! As your presentation put it, the government's negative position offers a lot of fun reading to people with self-experience. It also makes such a statement, which goes beyond the boundaries of ordinary law, that if the shares of a company are held by a municipality, that company is acting in the public sector. In addition, the government's negative position includes such classic phrases that imposing an obligation on the municipality and creating state budget support is an inadequate solution and a complex solution is needed. As a close partner of the Regional Minister, do you have an overview of what this complex solution is and when it is expected?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U112	There was a discussion of this once in the Commission, and I do not think you received an exhaustive answer to that question. If the parties concerned are unable to provide an answer, I will find it even more difficult to mediate it to you. But as Mr Nestor said, and as you yourself know, local authorities are already doing business, but at quite different levels. You and the initiator of the bill hope that after we sign the law, everyone's situation will change. At the same time, the Local Government Organisation Act contains all kinds of tasks, but different municipalities have different capacities to carry out these tasks. Probably the new law wouldn't change much.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U113	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U114	One complaint to the draft was that the text was too general. § 6 of the KOKS states that the task of the municipality is to organise social assistance and services in the municipality or city, care for the elderly, youth work, housing and utilities, water supply and sanitation, good order, etc. All these tasks are written in general terms and are all governed by some kind of sub-acts or by specific laws. It would not be possible to formulate a more detailed description of § 6. As a representative of the Commission, did you understand why this accusation of generalism arose?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U115	No, you didn't. I think it would be wise to write it that way, at least in § 6. But when I think about the whole debate that has been held, perhaps there should be a complex approach to the matter and a legislative proposal defining the specific tasks of the local government, together with a change of its COKS.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U116	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U117	Dear waitress, It already sounded like some municipalities were actively engaged in employment policy, some were doing nothing. Where it is dealt with, there will be some results. This is necessarily linked to the use of certain amounts, and they have usually come from own income, from income tax. Did the Commission not discuss such a situation or propose that there should be some kind of compensation system involving precisely those municipalities that are actively engaged in employment? Even before this change in COKS ever happens, there's a way to make up for the costs for those involved.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U118	In particular, no such proposal was made in the Commission. At the same time, in the discussion between the members of the Commission and the representative of the government, there were views that some of the current concepts and the local government financing system did not encourage local authorities to deal with this, as the case is that if the municipality increases its revenue, it would rather be taken away from the fine-tuning fund. Rather, the process is the opposite. This may have been a discussion that ties in with the context of your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U119	Thank you. Please, Eiki Nestor, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U120	Here's the second question. If the law imposes an obligation on the municipalities, they must fulfil their obligations and plan the funds for them. If the law says that the state must help them in doing so, then the state must do so. What is lacking here in total complexity?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U121	You have probably heard the debate on this subject before in this Chamber and many times more than I have. I am thinking of the debate that if the government places additional tasks on the local government, is the funding that goes in there really enough? And even though the Supreme Court has made its decision, we are likely to continue to have quite a lot of discussion in this Chamber before everyone comes to the same understanding.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U122	Thank you. Please, Neeme the Great, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U123	It still seems to me that this debate reflects the fear that the Government of the Republic will not be able to manage the arrangements for allocating and using money. I referred to the Law Enforcement Act, which also contained a clause that the date of entry into force of the law and the procedures for its implementation are to be established by a separate law. The law on the application and amendment of law enforcement law is currently under the procedure of the Riigikogu. Couldn't a similar solution be used in this law if the Government of the Republic doesn't think it is right to establish its own implementation and allocation procedures?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U124	I'm not a member of the Government of the Republic, I've never belonged to it. So I find it difficult to answer the question of what are the government's greatest fears about this bill. However, I do recall the debate we had in our committee. One Member of the Commission who has experience in entrepreneurship said that once entrepreneurs have discussed with one another how local authorities could contribute to entrepreneurship, it has been realised that the best thing is not to interfere with local entrepreneurship by the municipality, it does not interfere with natural competition. Maybe that's the most reasonable thing. However, this does not mean that the municipality should not contribute to improving the business environment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U125	Thank you. Please, Kajar Lember, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U126	Good waitress! When I read the regional minister's letter of co-ordination, I have the impression that the Minister does not trust the government with the basic reasoning relating to the issue of allocating the same money. That maybe the government can't really fix that amount. I ask you, as a Commission waitress, the following question. Did it sound like the Commission, for what reason did the coalition ambassadors vote against it? Does this also result from the fact that coalition ambassadors do not trust the Government of the Republic and do not believe that the government can manage to allocate these sums?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U127	No, I didn't get that impression. Rather, as I said in reply to the previous question, people have different perceptions of how much and how local authorities should contribute to the development of entrepreneurship. When I read the Government's reply to the Riigikogu and the Committee on Rural Affairs, it seems to me that the main argument is that we have not negotiated these substantive tasks. Rather, we are talking about changing one or two paragraphs in a rather declarative and general way. Local authorities are not assigned specific tasks. Perhaps next time, we should really contribute to legislation that would define these tasks and set out the amounts to be allocated. Then we would also see where these sums should come from. Maybe we could get a better solution then.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U128	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U129	Dear waitress, I ask, just in case, out of curiosity: maybe alternative options were also discussed in the committee, not just those offered by this bill? The Minister of Regional Affairs has once told us in Narva-Jõesuu and once in Narva that the problem in our region is that we do not have our own mafia. That word sounded, and people were sad. How about the other people have the Mafia, we don't, and the minister says it's bad. Perhaps something more attractive was discussed, one that would help local authorities to increase employment, even with the help of the Mafia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U130	There was no mention in the Commission of criminal economic activity or anything that could help regions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U131	Thank you very much. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. Speaking chair on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I would like to ask Kalvi Tõvi to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U132	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, In the view of the Social Democratic Party, job creation is essential and crucial. We know that Estonia's emigration balance over 50,000 people over the last five years is more than Võrumaa. I think that in every area, in every sector, we need to think about how to contribute to the development of entrepreneurship and the creation of jobs. I'm sure all the factions in this hall agree. The Social Democratic Party, however, took one small step to change the paradigm: to write into the Local Government Organisation Act a single principle that doing business is also the concern and responsibility of the local government. What difference does that make? I see a lot of former colleagues in this Chamber, former mayors. I know that your municipalities are concerned about entrepreneurship and you have dealt with the development of entrepreneurship, but there are a lot of places where this is not a topic where the local government manager says that this is not a local government task. It is precisely for these municipalities that we must change the COKS and sign this principle in. This is even so that local entrepreneurs can go knocking on the door of the parish house and say: 'Look, the management of a good rural municipality, the development of entrepreneurship is the responsibility of the local government. What do you do for this, and what can we all do together, how can we improve the business environment here? ' If we look forward to a complex solution, perhaps another 50,000 people may have migrated from Estonia to look for work far from Estonia. It's high time we changed something. It is not right to try to do a little better, to do much better. That is why the Social Democratic Party has proposed one small step: to add this addition to KOKS. We want coalition partners to change the decision they made in the Commission and vote in favour of our draft law. If necessary, it can be improved between the first reading and the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U133	Thank you. I would like to ask for a chair of speech as a representative of the Group of the Tarmo Tamme Centre Party.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U134	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The topic of entrepreneurship should be one of the most topical issues in Estonia, because it is with entrepreneurship that it is possible to develop the country. And if no one has to deal with this specifically right now, I ask why this has happened. Local authorities have dealt with entrepreneurship differently. Their chances are different, too. The larger the municipality, the more attention has been paid to entrepreneurship there. It all comes down to how many local governments have financial opportunities to promote entrepreneurship. The municipality can build a proper infrastructure, ensure rapid administration and, if there is any money, build industrial parks or industrial areas in cooperation with the EAS. I would remind you that the local government's income base has been severely reduced and, in the current situation, it would be very difficult to comply with this new provision if it was not accompanied by a specific financial cover. After all, we have cut the local government's income tax share from 11.93% to 11.4%. Financing for the maintenance of local roads was significantly reduced. For example, in 2008, EUR 40.46 million of road money was allocated to local authorities, but look at the amount in the budget for next year on this line! Local authorities were subject to a loan limitation: their net debt must not exceed 60% of the operating income. It also creates certain obstacles in order to address the issue of entrepreneurship. At the same time, VAT was raised to 20% and some local taxes, such as sales and boat taxes, were abolished. The abolition of land tax is not fully compensated. But one thing is certain: entrepreneurship also needs to be brought from the top down, i.e. from Tallinn EAS on site, be it the county level or the local government level. Things aren't gonna go on the ground until they do. Let me give you a few concrete examples of industrial parks. An industrial park was built in Põlva with the help of EAS and the help of private entrepreneurs and the city. This investment amounted to EUR 1,1 million. Currently, nearly 200 people work there. Those people were there before. This industrial park has not provided much additional jobs, but it has created an opportunity. And now the question is, who's gonna take it from here? The money has been invested, everything has been built out of streets, routes, etc., but who would be working to create more jobs there? This needs to be dealt with further at local government level, but money is needed to introduce this region not only in Estonia but also outside. I think the best way to attract investors is to give them investment support. The further away from Tallinn, the greater this support should be. Another example is about Võru. I recently read that there is an industrial park that cost €0.55 million. No jobs have arisen there. These are real sums paid out by the taxpayer, but no real results have been achieved. We believe that this issue should be dealt with further and that it is the responsibility of the local government to sign up to KOKS. But if it is not clear how this obligation is financially covered, then it cannot be legalised. For me, the most secure solution would be to increase the local government's income base by, for example, increasing the percentage of income tax. It would provide assurance that the money is real. The Centre Party's proposal is to take the matter forward. The problem is topical and local authorities could address it. Our proposal is not to reject the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-10-08_U135	Thank you. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject draft 456 at first reading. We have to vote on this. Let's get ready for the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting against the draft proposal of the commission 456 at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 46 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 25 against, no abstentions. The commission's proposal has been adopted, draft 456 has been rejected and will fall out of the procedure. Our agenda today is exhausted. I wish everyone a beautiful day! See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 12.15 p.m.
