ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the ninth Thursday session of the plenary session of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask those members of the Riigikogu who wish to hand over the drafts or inquiries to the Riigikogu. Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U2	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, who are early and already in their seats, as well as those who are about to arrive! On behalf of nine members of the Central Party Group, I want to pass on an inquiry to Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas. A lot has recently been written about the subject of inquiry, namely, the question of what happened in a number of nursing homes. One case was at the South-Estonian Special Care Centre. A 25-year-old young man with severe schizophrenia left the nursing home with reinforced supervision and with the consent of the employees who died. On March 22, Jõgeva County, in a nursing home for adults with special psychiatric needs, the subject assaulted a co-patient, which later resulted in the death of the co-patient. Similar problems have been encountered in other institutions. There are also problems for people living in their own homes who need special care, but they do not get into nursing homes on time because the queues are very long. In this context, we have a number of questions for the Minister of Social Affairs. For example, what is the Ministry of Social Affairs planning to do to ensure a high-quality care service? How is it planned to provide care for all those in need? Are there plans to regulate wages and are there sufficient staff? We ask the Minister for Social Affairs to answer these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U3	Riigikogu speech chair Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U4	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of eight members of the Riigikogu, I present an inquiry into the hunting development plan. As we know, the first hunting development plan has been drawn up in Estonia for the years 2008 to 2013. There are certain activities foreseen. As a result of the development plan, we are very interested in how it is planned, whether our hunting is sustainable, whether it is based on tradition, how much money has been spent on these activities, what is the leading role of the Ministry of the Environment and what is the role of the hunting council. That is why we are making an inquiry to the Minister for the Environment. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U5	Peter Võsa, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U6	Good morning, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, Twelve members of the Central Party Group have an inquiry to the Minister of Justice, Hanno Pevkur. In the second half of March this year, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) recommended that the Estonian authorities consider setting limits on the loan-to-guarantee value and the loan-to-income ratio. The reason was that Estonia has a very high share of short-term variable interest rate mortgage loans, which increases the risks associated with the housing market and the economic downturn. During the real estate boom, housing loans were taken and granted too lightly, and now many people are paying two loans at the same time: their mortgage and the loan taken in the housing company to renovate the house. At the same time, there are many families who have returned their home to the bank but still pay the part of the outstanding loan. People who are currently solvent may, for example, fail to pay if they lose their job. For such customers, banks generally offer payment holidays for up to a year, during which only interest is paid, but this leave may not be granted for the next 30 to 40 years. Thus, the number of people in debt may continue to increase. Last year, Lindorff Eesti, a credit management company, analysed people's debt behaviour compared to a year earlier. Based on the analysis, Äripäev's reporter pointed out that the typical debtor is mostly a 35-year-old man with one or two invoices not paid in time. The journalist also referred to the very sad fact that the number of young people among debtors has grown most rapidly. The large number of debtors shows that domestic lending policy has not been reasonable. In this regard, we have four questions for the Minister, which I hope will be read out and answered in substance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U7	Good colleagues, no more calls. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted three inquiries. According to the Riigikogu's Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the Management Board decides on their further processing. Let's move on to the messages. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimitud. Good fellows, next week on Tuesday, 2 April, an event dedicated to the 25th anniversary of the Creative League will take place in the Chamber. In this regard, I would ask you to look over the tabletops and drawers! We're gonna do a presence check. 83 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 18. It is now necessary to clarify today's agenda. First of all, at the debate on today's second item, the draft law amending the Income Tax Act, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group, at first reading, Rannar Vasiliev, Member of the Riigikogu, will deliver the report of the initiator of the draft. Secondly, the Estonian Central Party Group withdrew from the proceedings on 27 March the draft law amending the Income Tax Act of 28 January 367, which we planned to discuss at today's session as agenda item 3.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U8	The first item is the third reading of the draft Act amending the Victim Assistance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Good fellows, I'm going to vote the final vote on bill 379. Please take a stand and vote. There are 83 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. Draft 379 of the Act amending the Victim Assistance Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws has been adopted as a law. The first item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U9	Let us move to the second item on the agenda, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. I ask Rannar Vassilyev, member of the Riigikogu, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U10	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Good fellows, there's too much noise in the hall. I ask that we be quieter, respect the waitress and those members of the Riigikogu who wish to listen! Please, waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U11	Thank you. Maybe nobody noticed before, so I'll start over with the numbers. In 2014 we believe that the tax-free rate could increase to EUR 1920, EUR 2112 in 2015 and EUR 2304 per year from 2016. Compared to the so-called club of other EU Member States and OECD countries, which Estonia has been part of for some time, it can be said that the income tax-free rate in Estonia is quite low compared to the average wage. Given that we have increased both lower and average wages and are expected to continue to rise, the gap with average wages will increase further. If you look at taxation of labour costs in Estonia, it is largely due to relatively high social taxes, because the tax-free rate already mentioned is low and the system is not progressive, with the exception of this zero rate, i.e. the fact that everyone is taxed at a uniform rate, the labour force of low-paid people is quite expensive for us, both in the context of the European Union and the OECD mentioned. The bill should alleviate this problem. As regards the impact of the draft on the state budget, according to the calculations submitted by the Ministry of Finance in 2011, the expected effect of an increase of the tax-free rate of EUR 192 million is EUR 25 million per year. Exactly what the impact will be depends on what employment will be like at that time. No one has a very specific knowledge of this, but this is the order of magnitude. To compensate for less income tax receipts, we have provided for the cancellation of one tax amendment that should enter into force in 2015. We want to cancel the reduction in the income tax rate of 1%, i.e. from 21% to 20%. As the reduction in the rate of income tax does not alleviate the main tax concern, i.e. the high tax burden on low-wage earners, we find it more appropriate to use the loss of income to increase the tax-free rate. At the same time, it should be taken into account that, if a current economic forecast was made, it was thought that much less tax would be due in 2012, i.e. last year than actually received. Assuming that the Ministry of Finance did not make a significant downward adjustment to the economic forecast for the following years, we followed a sober logic that, as a result, in 2014 tax will also be received more than planned in the 2012 economic forecast. Part of the increased tax revenue could be needed to increase the tax-free rate. The government has also expressed its views on this bill, as they do and as they must. The main problem is the ideological conflict, i.e. whether the tax-free rate in Estonia should decrease or not. The second issue concerns legitimate expectations. In particular, a law reducing the tax rate has already been adopted and people could have the hope or the assumption that the tax rate will decrease in 2015. It must be acknowledged that this is quite a hypocritical approach. It is recalled that in 2009 people also had a legitimate expectation that there would be no increase in VAT at two weeks' notice. If we look back in history, the legitimate expectation that the tax-free rate would increase was that people would already have had a decision to reduce the tax rate, which was done relatively recently. The increase in the tax-free rate was already foreseen in the Act in 2008, which was abolished in 2009. The tax-free rate increased further in 2008. So, with regard to legitimate expectations, it could rather be said that the tax-free rate should first be increased and, if the government or coalition has an ideological desire to lower income tax, it should come after that. In addition, it must be noted that there is almost two years before the increase in the tax-free rate we have proposed, which is a much longer period of notice than there have been in many other tax changes that we have witnessed in recent history. I'm done with that. If there are any questions, I'm willing to answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U12	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I am pleased to present the draft Social Democratic Party, which aims to increase the tax-free rate of income tax. We believe that this rate could increase to EUR 1920 in 2014, but to EUR 2112 in 2015.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U13	Good waitress, thank you! You have questions. Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U14	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I read the official Finnish government announcement of 21 March. The Finnish State plans to reduce corporate tax from the current 24.5% to 20%. You want to increase our income tax rate to 21%. At the same time, you have sometimes talked about some kind of introduction of classic corporate tax, which I think is 10%. I do not know exactly what it is, because there is no draft or concrete plan. Your tax policy is so confusing that it is impossible to understand. But what are your considerations? Countries are competing with each other and, for example, in our neighbouring Latvia, the tax rate is lower, and in Finland the tax rate is also decreasing. What are your considerations if you want to increase your corporate tax rate above the Finnish rate?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U15	As regards Finland in particular, it should be noted that Finland does not benefit from the so-called'reinvested profits tax'. Their system is quite different from ours. Although this debate has been held there and the idea has been discussed whether to switch to the same system as in Estonia, as far as I know, there is no such plan. Indeed, Finns and, in fact, Swedes have adjusted their corporate tax rate to a lower level. Given that in Estonia companies have a tax of 0% on so-called reinvested profits, we are also now of the opinion that if we had 21% income tax in the future and this would also apply to companies, then taxation of our companies in this region would certainly be competitive. In fact, when we talk about Latvia, the reinvested profits in Latvia are not tax-free like Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U16	Sven Sester, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! I'll pick up where Aivar Sõerd ended up. Indeed, it seems to me, too, that your tax policy package, if you could call it what you have presented in society, is relatively jumpy. Why do I say that? After all, you have previously handed over a bill to the Riigikogu, which provides for an increase in the tax burden, namely an increase in income tax to 26%, in certain higher wages. We'll never see it in this bill again. Have you, in principle, given up the increase in the tax burden in Estonian society and the fact that the 21% tax that is currently available could be the highest possible tax? That's all you're offering in this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U18	This draft focuses on increasing the tax-free rate. In this context, the reduction in income tax from 21% to 20% is a source of cover. In other words, this amendment does not present our understanding of what could be changed in the Income Tax Act. This is certainly not a complete package of amendments to the Social Democratic Party's Income Tax Act, which is presented here, but rather an increase in the tax-free rate and a source of cover for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U19	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I ask for a presentation of the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Monetary Commission, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U20	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll give you an overview of the bill bearing number 359. This is a draft law amending the Income Tax Act. As representatives of the initiators, Mr Nestor and Mr Vassilyev gave information on the draft and presented an overview of it in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. In short, the draft provides for an increase in the tax-free portion of the income of a natural person over the next three years by EUR 192 per year, which would increase the income-free part to EUR 2304 by 2016. As representative of the Ministry of Finance, the Head of the Tax Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, Lemmi Oro, presented the Government's opinion on the draft. The government decided s. a At its meeting on 14 February, the Committee did not support the draft, justifying it as follows: 'In principle, we agree that an increase in tax-free income is necessary in the longer term, but this requires a more thorough analysis of the revenue and expenditure of the state budget and a longer-term forecast. The explanatory memorandum to the draft proposal is based on data from the summer 2012 economic forecast and on better than expected tax receipts, but only on this basis, significant reductions in tax receipts cannot be envisaged. The increase in the tax-free income will reduce the revenue of the state budget from 2014 to an increasing amount of EUR 30 million per year, which cannot be covered solely by potentially incoming taxes. The reduction of the tax rate proposed in the draft as a source of cover has already been adopted as a law and it would be contrary to the principle of legal certainty. Both raising tax-free income and lowering the tax rate are both tax policy objectives, one of which does not outweigh abandoning another equally important objective. " The representative of the Ministry of Finance stated that the preparation of the country's budget strategy and forecast is still ongoing, so it is too early to assess and make final decisions. The debate in the Commission continued on the subject, as the initiators based their draft on strategic planning, where decisions are taken in the context of forecasting, mapping of opportunities and budgetary strategy. The initiators were accused of wanting to make important decisions just before the economic forecast and the budgetary strategy were completed. In response, the representative of the initiators in the committee expressed the view that the budgetary strategy must be based on what the Riigikogu decides, decided or is still in the process of deciding. The Riigikogu, in turn, was exposed to the fact that the strategic planning of the Riigikogu cannot be based on any other logic than that it is necessary to map the situation and the framework of the state's possibilities before making a decision, in the light of forecasts. The Commission was interested in assessing the impact of the increase in the tax-free rate provided for in the draft proposal. The originator had based his assessment on the former calculations made by the Ministry of Finance on a similar draft. It was clarified that this was an assessment of the magnitude of the measure, as more precise estimates require the identification of employment indicators. According to the explanations provided by the representative of the Ministry of Finance, their assessment is provisional. The source of cover was also discussed, i.e. the opt-out of the tax reduction, and the need for additional sources of cover from the originators. More specifically, there was an interest as to whether the initiators were willing to find other sources of cover and whether consideration was given to taking future growth into account as a source of cover. The initiators expressed their wish to stick to their initial proposals and to provide for the abolition of the reduction in the income tax rate as a source of cover. The debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs ended on this occasion and the Commission took its decisions. It was decided to appoint Sven Sester as rapporteur for the draft (consensus decision), to put the draft on the plenary agenda today, on 28 March (this decision was also consensual) and to propose that the draft be rejected (by 6, 5 against, no abstentions). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U21	Thank you. Dear waitress, there are questions for you. Rannar Vasiliev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U22	Thank you. In the light of the views of the Government and also of some of the members of the Commission, it might be expected that, for example, an increase in the tax-free rate would require it to be included in the budgetary strategy that the government is putting forward. In other words, it can only be decided by the government and the Riigikogu has no say here. Despite this, I have heard from the politicians in the coalition that the draft we submitted is still modest, in fact, the tax-free rate should be increased to EUR 500 per month. How do you feel in this context, is it realistic or not?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U23	Thank you. So let's talk about two issues. First of all, should we ask the Government of the Republic's opinion on the drafts or not? As you know, the opinion of the Government of the Republic is indeed sought on all drafts. This has already been agreed in our national system. Secondly, should we increase the tax-free minimum and what would in future be the tax-free minimum in Estonia, up to 500 euros per month? I can assure you that I am absolutely convinced by the IRL Group, too, that we must increase the tax-free minimum. The question is how much. I think that EUR 500 will be completely real after a certain number of years. We will certainly not be able to reach that amount next year. This is evident, by the way, from the Social Democrats' draft. They have said that the tax-free minimum could increase by EUR 16 per month over the next three years. When comparing the current consumer price index with that of 2008, when the tax-free minimum last increased, I believe that the opposition should have proposed an increase in the monthly tax-free income not to EUR 160 but to EUR 165 as this amount would cover the change in the consumer price index during that period. Perhaps, in turn, I have the question: on what basis do you make your calculations? But once again, in answer to your question, I am absolutely certain that we must increase the tax-free minimum. The question is, what do we do this for? I'm looking forward to the data that, I expect, should arrive on April 4th when we find out about the spring economic forecast. I think that then we can also say what are the possibilities for the Republic of Estonia to move forward with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U24	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U25	The answer was so good, I can't help but ask. Now, if you don't tell me how many years from now, the tax-free minimum will be 500 euros, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, or you don't know how many years from now, it's just bluffing and fooling people. So what year is the tax-free minimum of 500 euros?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U26	Thank you for a good question. I don't think it's bluffing. But I feel that we have actually moved to a general tax dialogue. It is very reasonable that we do so today. I have to admit that this was not the case in the Commission, but I would be happy to take the ball. I think this is interesting for everyone in this Chamber and this subject deserves a debate. I have also told journalists in the past that it is very likely that it will take up to ten years to reach EUR 500. Where does it come from for ten years? The question is: what are our financial opportunities? We know that an increase in tax-free income of 10 euros will cost 20 million euros in the middle. All right, it has not actually taken into account the positive effect of having more money in the hands of the people and increasing consumption and, consequently, more VAT. It can be expected that, in fact, this cost is not as high as the Ministry of Finance has said, but today, however, we must take account of the figures reported by the Ministry of Finance. I sincerely think that if we move forward at such a rate that the tax-free minimum will increase by EUR 25 to 30, but I will say once again that everything depends on what our options are, in terms of time, we will reach EUR 500. Make a calculation and you'll see it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U27	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U28	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! One of the arguments you raised in rejecting the draft is that the preparation of the budget strategy is still ongoing. How are these things supposed to be constitutionally? Whether the government listens and follows the tips that are given to the Riigikogu, or we are really some rubber stamp that cannot generate ideas and who is told: 'Stay, the government is working right now! '?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U29	Aivar Sõerd, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U30	Thank you. Of course not. I think that politics will be implemented in Estonia in cooperation with the Government of the Republic and the Riigikogu. We should not irresponsibly adopt laws that we cannot comply with or that we will be deeply down. We see what has happened in Europe and in a number of countries where social democrats have been in power. We are now solving the problems of these countries. We should not take decisions that will make the state's cost base such that, later on, we will have to work for years to get it back on track. I think that, for this reason, real analyses are needed on a macro-economic basis, on which decisions can also be taken.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U31	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Rannar Vassilyev, the previous speaker, said that the tax exemption on reinvested profits in Estonia has given us a huge competitive advantage. I totally agree with that. According to Vassilyev, the competitive advantage is not even hampered by the increase in the tax rate that the Social Democrats want to do with this draft. However, if the income tax rate in 2015 is 21% instead of 20%, this means an increase in the tax burden on dividends compared to Latvia, for example, where dividends have a 15% tax rate. I see a problem here. Could this be one of the reasons why the Commission decided to reject this draft?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U32	Rannar Vasiliev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U33	Thank you for your question. Of course it was. The government had highlighted a number of aspects that I and the initiators of the draft had touched on. One of the issues we have discussed today is the possible macroeconomic figures resulting from the future economic forecast, on the basis of which we will find out what opportunities we have. The second issue is what the good questioner asked me about, namely the competition between tax policy measures. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the government coalition, it has been agreed, both at the level of the Government Coalition Agreement and in the form of an amendment which has already entered into force as a law, that the income tax rate will decrease from 21% to 20% on 1 January 2015. This is a very clear tax policy decision. I do not see, and it seems that the majority in the Committee on Monetary Affairs did not see any reason why we should make changes to what has already been actually adopted as a law. So, yes, the answer is clear: an increase in the tax burden of 21% instead of 20% means a clear increase in the tax burden of a certain degree will certainly reduce our competitiveness, that is clear on the day.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U34	Thank you. I am extremely pleased that Mr Sõerd agreed with me. I'm really sorry he did this the wrong way. It is certainly possible to read my words in the verbatim and see if this agreement applies to this. I do not remember, however, that we would have had a debate in the Commission on the taxation of dividends. If this was not the subject of discussion, it is very difficult to say that this was the reason why the draft was voted down. As far as the previous comment is concerned, I am, in some ways, pleased that the Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs is questioning the calculations made by the Ministry of Finance. However, it was assumed earlier that each tax change should be based on an economic forecast. What is Estonia's GDP and overall tax revenue in ten years' time if you claim that it will be possible to increase the tax-free rate to 500 euros?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U35	Let's get to it from a distance. You have, as usual, skilfully mimicked a number of topics and questions in your one-minute speech. Where am I gonna start? You started by not remembering that there was talk of dividends in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. Perhaps they were not mentioned exactly in this wording, but there was also no mention of EUR 500 in the Commission. That doesn't stop you from asking me questions about it, and if you ask me, I'll answer. That's one side of it. I would like to remind the Members of the Commission, just before the Commission's decision is taken, that this is a fundamental decision, precisely in connection with your desire to provide cover for the recovery of the tax rate of 21% in 2015 (so you could say today, because a reduction in this is foreseen). I stressed that the members of the Committee on Monetary Affairs must be prepared that, if they are in favour of the proposal, the income tax rate will therefore increase back to 21%. The subject was up before the decision was made. At the end of the question, you came up with what Estonia's GDP could be like in ten years, for example, and what growth forecasts could be in this ten year period. It all depends on the tax policy we are pursuing in Estonia during this period. If we pursue a tax policy that brings foreign investors here, boosts the economy, gives us the opportunity to create new jobs, then I do not rule out that it may not take ten years to do so, that time may be much shorter. The question is how Estonia will proceed after 2015. Until 2015, Estonia has established its fiscal policy decisions and guidelines in the coalition agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U36	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U37	The co-presentation of the chairman of the committee has become a common online propaganda against social democrats, based on vicious lies, stupidities and prejudices. My question is about these poor people, about those countries that are north of us. How has Finland, Sweden, Norway and Denmark been able to compete with us so far?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U38	Thank you, my good colleague. Let us talk a little about income tax rates in other countries so that they are known to everyone. I asked the Legal and Analytical Department to do some homework. What did I find out? I will then also come to the question of how these countries will remain competitive. But as background information, if Estonia currently has an income tax rate of 21% and the income tax-free minimum has increased from EUR 767 in 2003 to EUR 1728, then in Latvia the income tax rate is currently 25% and the tax-free rate is 600 euros per year when converted into euros. For Latvia, it is worth mentioning that tax-free income increases there depending on the number of children. This gives a strong leap: EUR 1080 per year per child. In Lithuania, the basic tax exemption rate is EUR 1633 per year (I would remind you that it is EUR 1728 in Estonia), but this is only the case for wage income, which is less than EUR 2780 per year. Lithuania has an interesting nuance: taxpayers earning more than 910 euros a month, or nearly 11000 euros a year, have no tax-free income at all. This has been the case since the 2009 reform. In Lithuania, too, tax relief has been obtained since the first child. The tax exemption for the first child is EUR 29 per month, for the second child EUR 58 per month. We're going to the Nordics. Finland has a tax-free minimum of EUR 6100 per year. After tax reform, however, individual income tax is made up of two components, a local and a national component, which is not as easy as in Estonia. But it is certainly very important to look at the ratio between the tax-free minimum and the average wage. We can talk about this separately later. Among all these countries, Estonia is really very low in this respect; let us be honest. In Sweden, too, the tax-free rate depends on the amount of income. Interestingly, in 2012, there was a basic tax-free minimum of EUR 2046. In Sweden, the tax-free minimum will gradually increase to EUR 3709 and then start to shrink at some point. There's the sinew. For certain revenue above EUR 38000, the tax-free minimum will decrease, finally reaching more than EUR 3000 to EUR 1400. But once again, there are a number of exceptions, for example, for those over 65 years of age. Children and spouses also declare their income separately there. In Germany, the basic tax-free minimum has been EUR 8004 per year since 2010 and can be declared together by spouses, in which case the total amount is EUR 16008. If you notice, the tax-free minimum varies from country to country. It is very important that these data are comparable, otherwise the question might arise that in one country there is a higher minimum income tax-free rate than in the other. It is not possible to compare the unparalleled. In fact, it is reasonable to compare (this comparison is also made here) on the basis of the average salary. It turned out that Estonia really has reason to move forward, because in those countries that you pointed out or tried to set an example in the Nordic countries, 30% of the average wage is exempt from tax or more, but in Estonia this figure is very low by 16%. Now, when it comes to how these countries can manage, of course they can. We have not yet caught up with the welfare society countries that we have been given today as an example. Unfortunately, we need to compare ourselves with the countries with which we started a levelling. The main thing to deny is the countries of Eastern Europe. We have to compare the comparison. If we ask where we are going, of course we want to end up at the level of Scandinavian welfare states. Now the question is whether we can reach this level in such a way that our revenues, wages and other revenues are high, but at the same time our tax burden is not so high. Life shows.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U39	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U40	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! A quick calculation shows that if the tax-free minimum increases to EUR 500, it will cost at least EUR 1 billion. I think it makes sense for us to move forward as the Social Democrats have proposed: quietly rowing, going further. But why don't you and your party respect pensioners? After all, they long ago expect average and higher pensions to be exempt from income tax. You won't be paying the pensioners back that money in ten years. Minister Taavi Rõivas has also said that the average pension should be exempt from income tax. It seems to me that if we move forward as the IRL or even the government departments have offered, we will not meet the expectations of pensioners.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U41	Thank you, good questioner! You resented me for contrasting myself with your speeches and your tax postulates. But your question was that, frankly, I didn't understand the data you were based on. You asked why we do not think about pensioners and create a situation where the average pension is taxed on income tax. It's not like that! What you're saying isn't like that! At present, the average pension is not taxed on income tax. The pension increase in 2013 - I do not know whether or not by chance - is that the pension for a person with an average retirement age is almost equal to the amount that a pensioner can obtain monthly income tax-free (€336, overall tax-free income of €144, additional tax exemption for a pension of €192). If you look, you will see that these amounts are similar in 2013. In 2014, the pension will rise by 5% or 6% or some other percentage, which is possible based on our growth and budget. I think it's very right. We need to get to a situation where pensioners do not pay income tax on average pensions. I completely agree with you, and I have said this before. We are most likely to raise the pension of 15, 16 or 17 euros next year. I don't want to speculate, but I'll give you a scale. The claim that pensioners are currently paying income tax on average pensions is wrong. Now the question is what our options will be next year. I very much hope that these opportunities will be such that we can reinforce the claim that a pensioner does not have to pay income tax on an average pension.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U42	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U43	Dear waitress, Since you welcomed the fact that the debate is going into a general debate on fiscal policy, I have a simple question of this kind. What is your view on whether, given the current overall tax burden, maintaining the public sector is sustainable? If not, would you prefer a reduction in the public sector or an increase in the tax burden?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U44	Thank you. That's a good question. We have now gone to a general discussion, and I think that makes sense. Unfortunately, I don't have any characters or diagrams with me here. But let's look at the effectiveness of government. I saw a percentage of the country's efficiency calculations some time ago (I quote from memory). The calculation was based on the proportion of state expenditure in the state budget. If I am not mistaken, it turned out from these calculations that ten years ago these expenditures amounted to almost a quarter of the state budget, i.e. 24%. We have now reached 17%. What can be said about this? We are now doing all the work in the public sector, from the implementation of laws to the education of children, to a much more effective level. I can't tell you what percentage today would be right. I don't know if it's mentioned in some development plan or somewhere else, but I do think that if it's possible to make government effective, it makes sense. I hope I understand your question correctly.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U45	Good fellows! I have a request that we, both in questions and in answers, remain primarily within the limits of Bill 359. Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Your speech gives the impression that the main thing is where the money is taken and how to proceed. But I hope that in the context of these activities that are currently taking place in Estonia, the establishment of the next year's state budget in the Government and ministries of the Republic, the budget strategy will also be drawn to these bottlenecks. As we know, the Estonian Tax and Customs Board has emphasised and this is evident from other data that there are hundreds of millions of euros of tax holes in the Republic of Estonia. The last example that the Tax and Customs Board gave was that a further EUR 110 to 155 million could be collected in the form of VAT. Is this being dealt with? Was this also under discussion in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U47	Thank you. I'm in the middle of something to go on. Mr President said that we should remain very clearly within the scope of the draft and focus only on these issues. I will be honest with you that this was not being discussed in the Commission, but since you were interested, you asked about it, I will answer. If the President makes another comment, I will try to focus only on this draft. You started with the question of where to take the money and how to proceed. If you have noticed today's debate, you know that it has not actually been just that. Of course, it's right to ask where to get the money. Your proposal on the source of cover is that money should come from giving up the reduction in the tax rate. In this context, what you have proposed is correct, because if the tax rate is not reduced, there will be real money. Both are fiscal policy measures. In fact, the tax debate should also take place in the context of whether or not we are implementing this reduction. It is not just a question of what the spring economic forecast is, which is certainly also important. I now come to the part of your question concerning tax holes. In the context of this draft, there was no debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but the Committee on Monetary Affairs has met with the people of the Tax and Customs Board several times in the past, and almost always there has been tax revenue which does not come into the state budget, which is 'hidden'. The people of the Tax and Customs Board have told us what they are doing to reduce this tax gap. I would remind you, even in the recent past, of the changes to the liquid fuel market. They were made in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, the Tax and Customs Board and the Committee on Monetary Affairs of Parliament. These changes were finally approved in this Chamber. After all, it has been a job to reduce tax holes. We have reached a situation where the tax gap is close to 10% of our tax receipts, or even a little less. That is, of course, an assessment. Exactly what we can never say is that this is the logic of hidden money. The Committee on Finance recently met with a delegation from a Central Asian country. It turned out that the coalition estimated that the tax hole in that country was 39% and that the opposition estimated that 51%, these estimates differed. I do not have the data, but it would certainly be good to see what the expected tax holes in the developed Western countries are. If our tax hole is only 10%, I think we're in the right direction. We want to achieve a further reduction in the tax gap.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U48	Sven Mikser, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U49	Thank you. Honourable waitress! In your reply to Eiki Nestor, you asked yourself whether we would catch up with Scandinavia in such a way that one day our salary level would be the same, but our tax level would be much lower. In a situation where you give us such beautiful answers, it would be rude not to answer the question you have asked. I'm gonna say no, this is definitely not how we're gonna catch up with them. I believe my colleague, Eiki Nestor, will agree with me. But now to Latvia and Lithuania. I believe that our human geographer Finance Minister, Jürgen Ligi, agrees with me that Latvia and Lithuania are not north of Estonia, but south of Estonia. However, the level of labour taxes in Latvia and Lithuania is known to be lower than the level of Estonia. Are they going to pick us up or not, and if you think one way or the other way, why?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U50	Dear colleagues, I have a sincere request that we remain clearly within the framework of Bill 359! Good waitress, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U51	Thank you. I can feel your watchful eye behind me, watching me answer. I will try to say very briefly that countries are in competition with each other. This is not only today, but also ten years ago, and there are not only countries that are south of us in competition, but also countries that are north of us. This competition is healthy competition, tax policy decisions are monitored, not just income tax rates, possible exceptions, simplicity of the system, investment opportunities, how investors are attracted to the country. Of course, the social system, which is very important, is also being monitored. We are in this competition, and life is an example of how this competition will move us forward in a good way. Once again, we must compare ourselves with those with whom we began. I think we have done quite well in this competition over the last ten or twenty years.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U52	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U53	Thank you, Mr President. Austet's co-rapporteur! One of the criticisms of our draft was that it does not take into account longer-term forecasts. What forecasts do coalition politicians, such as Minister Ligi, your own and colleague Palts, rely on when you trump each other by offering a tax-free rate of between EUR 500 and 5000 per month? Are there any predictions we don't know anything about?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U54	Thank you, good questioner! You'll see how in time the questions fit in. Now you have already talked about EUR 500.5000 per month, after a little while, someone will quote your question and say that we are talking about EUR 5 000 per month. That's how these adjustments often come into being. But I'll come to your question. There is an important difference between handing over a bill to the Riigikogu that tells you where you want to go and how you want to get there, or you passing on an understanding of where you want to end up in the first stage, and then, if you have real data, you're already providing input in order to act on your options. I think that's the difference. There is nothing wrong with your draft, compared to a number of previous drafts, in this context. You could say you have a source of cover like this. There's always been a problem with no sources of cover. Even if you have been relatively correct, this has not been the case with another opposition party. It is about fiscal policy objectives and agreements. In the case of the draft, you propose that the reduction in the tax rate agreed for 2015 should be abolished as a source of cover. It could also be said that you foresee an increase in the income tax rate of 1% in 2015; we can also put it that way. Its monetary value is in the order of EUR 60 million. You have every right to put these things on the table. No one can take that right away from you. The question is whether this should be done or not. I would like to stress once again that, according to the agreements that were made a few years ago, I am not talking here about the legitimate expectations that the representative of the ministry pointed out, certainly there is also this aspect here, but I would say that there are almost two years until 2015, we should not have to change that percentage now. If we do not change this, there will be a new question immediately, because your draft was very clear about this amendment. We asked the Commission whether you were prepared to find some compromise here and to give up the increase in the income tax rate in 2015. If you're ready for this, there's a reason to move on. It was very clear here that we must remain within the framework of this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U55	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U56	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I'm gonna ask you to stay within the limits of a particular bill. As I understand it, in its rejection proposal, the Commission pointed out above all that, if the draft was adopted as a law, Estonia would lose out in competitiveness. As I understood from the discussion, the main concern has been for Finland and Latvia. Let's see what the numbers say. Foreign investments per person came to Estonia in 2007-2011 for 2454 dollars, and Finland for 7292 dollars and Sweden for 12244 dollars. At the same time, direct foreign investment in Estonia was three times larger in 2004-2011 than in Latvia and Lithuania. It seems that this hierarchy is in place and does not depend directly on what social security is like. Our draft aims to improve social security. How does this, in the Commission's view, reduce our competitiveness?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U57	Thank you. I mean, it's pretty interesting to look at your words after the verbatim. The answers go long and it's very interesting what's being counted out of them. Are there really different aspects? Has it been possible to read from my answers that increasing the tax-free minimum reduces the competitiveness of the Estonian state? I don't think I said that, but we can check it out. Let's specify that. I think that an increase in the tax-free minimum is in itself a very sensible proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very sensible proposal. Moreover, I think that your draft, which states that tax-free income should increase by EUR 16 next year and that it should be EUR 160 per month, is actually not enough. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that this is little if we look at how the consumer price index has changed even since the last increase in the tax-free minimum. Your proposal would not cover this change. I don't think that's enough. But one thing is opinion, the other is opportunity. Let's see. If it is possible, I repeat, if it is possible to increase the tax-free minimum to the extent that you have proposed, or even more, it should. Certainly these agreements will then lie ahead of the coalition. If there are opportunities, then political debate is therefore a place to do with the money of economic growth. I think this debate needs to be held. However, increasing the tax-free minimum will certainly not reduce competitiveness. Absolutely not.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U58	Heljo Pikhof, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I know, of course, what the average old-age pension and the pension exemption are now, but I will still come back to our bill. I didn't talk about the years 2014, 2015 and 2016 since 2013, which I was talking about. My question is a little broader. Don't you think an increase in the tax-free minimum should hurry? We have a lot of low-paid workers. To be honest, the income tax on the minimum wage is very high, at least for them. The minimum wage could also be exempt from income tax.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U60	Thank you. Good question. Of course, you have to hurry. I think that the tax-free minimum must be increased, not one year, but it must still be in constant change. I have just seen that the UK currently has a tax-free minimum of 30,6%. We are talking again about the percentage, the tax-free minimum ratio to the average wage, because we need to find a benchmark. In April 2013, it will be increased to 5% in the United Kingdom, from 30.6% to 35.6%. You can imagine what the average wage is going to be, or how much this minimum is actually going to be increased. In addition, a political decision has been taken to increase the tax-free minimum to 37% in April 2014, after a year. Such political agreements have been concluded. The various reasons why they want to do so, I will certainly point out in my later speech, which I will come forward on behalf of the group. I am absolutely convinced that if our financial opportunities allow, we should increase the tax-free minimum. But your bill now provides that income tax should not decrease by 1% in 2015. We do not agree with that. We have agreed to this reduction and we do not agree to abandon it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U61	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U62	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Chairman of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. You have a very talented performance, and your ability to predict what will happen in ten years' time will certainly be foreshadowed even by the psychic. But I have a question about the bill. You also confirmed in response to Neeme the fact that if the tax-free income is EUR 160 there is little, for example EUR 165 or more. Why did the Commission not consider the option of completing the reading of the draft and waiting for an analysis of 4 April? Then, for example, IRL would have the opportunity to propose that the tax-free income be EUR 165 or 170 and be able to move towards a distant dream that will come true in ten years' time. Why was this option not considered?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U63	Jaak Allik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U64	Thank you. Good question. I was actually trying to explain it in earlier answers, but I'm going to go over it. Repeating is the mother of wisdom. Before the vote, I asked the Commission whether the initiators of the draft were honoured with this 1% dogma. Ladies and gentlemen, a partial solution is not possible here. You have said very clearly that you believe that the tax-free minimum should be increased over a certain period of time and the income tax rate should remain 21% instead of 20%. This means that the decision taken when one law was passed must be annulled. You actually foresee that in 2015 income tax should be increased by 1%. We do not agree with that. It's as simple as that. If we're talking about other sources of cover, why not? But you say very firmly that no, in 2015, income tax must be 21%. I specifically wanted to know what the initiator of the draft thought about the general tax concept. Looking at your bill, I had the impression that you were actually satisfied with this 21%, you did not talk in the context of the bill that, for example, in some form of income deals, you could increase income tax even more. The initiator of the bill said that he spoke only in the context of a source of cover. I think that I could have taken up this issue more fully and put forward my fiscal policy ideas. But I don't think it makes any sense to exponentially increase the tax-free rate right now. That's a very simple reason.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U65	Dear waitress, I just want to clarify for the sake of the verbatim. I asked you about the sustainability of the public sector, given the current tax burden. In your answer, you used the term 'costs of government administration' and said that government administration has become more effective, with 17% of public expenditure instead of 24%. By public sector, I meant the whole public sector: defence, education, social care, culture, health, internal security, etc. Did you mean the same thing in your answer, or were you talking about the costs of public administration in a narrower sense?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U66	Thank you. I sense that we are going deeper and deeper with different topics, we are already starting to deviate from the subject. It is not even a very fiscal debate that we are beginning to hold here at one point. I take the opportunity to say once in this debate that we did not discuss this in the Commission. If you want to continue this debate, I'll find these diagrams. Then let's see what the share of the public sector is. Why not talk about it separately?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U67	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U68	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, First of all, the aim of the draft Social Democrats is to improve social security and a fairer distribution of the tax burden in society. The fact that the coalition does not agree with this is generally known and understandable in this respect. You said that the rejection of the draft was caused, on the one hand, by the principle of legal certainty, because once it has been decided to reduce personal income tax, this decision should not be rejected. Is this principle of legal certainty something that applies only in this case, or is it also characteristic of the other proposals of the coalition? For example, last week we decided to change the procedure for buying back land under nature conservation. It's changed every three years, and there's no talking about legal certainty. How does this criterion arise?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U69	Thank you. Good question. I'm trying to answer. I'll start with your introduction. Listening to your question, I tried quickly to cross with my eyes the explanatory statement of your bill. You said that the aim of the bill was to improve social security. It's as weird as it is, but you haven't used that sentence anywhere in the explanatory memorandum. I hope I'm not being unfair. I tried very quickly to look at the section 'Content of the draft and comparative analysis' of the explanatory memorandum. The explanatory memorandum is not very long. If you've said that as a slogan, at least you haven't mentioned it in the explanatory statement. I don't think I'm being unfair to you. But speaking of legal certainty, I'm going to give you a little insight. At the moment, questions seem to be over, perhaps this review will create a new round of questions. I will give you an overview of the changes that have taken place in relation to this very same § 23, i.e. tax-free income. It's all about legal certainty. In 2006, § 23 of the Income Tax Act entered into force in such a way that the tax-free income deductible from the income of a resident natural person (we are always talking about the income of a self-resident and the deduction of that tax-free income) during the tax period was EEK 24,000, which at that time amounted to EUR 128 per month. The new Act entered into force on 1 January 2008. Then the vision of the near future was established. This is exactly what we talked about earlier, whether this should not actually be a one-year context, but a longer period, if the funds allow it at all. The same § 23 provided for tax-free income of EEK 27000 in 2008 (six EUR 144), EEK 30000 in 2009 (six EUR 160), EEK 33000 in 2010 (six EUR 176) and EEK 36000 in 2011 (six EUR 192). This draft came into force as a law in 2008. According to the agreement, the tax-free income increased to 144 euros. A year later, already in 2009, this increase was moved forward. Since the years of the crisis had arrived and the financial opportunities were not such as to have been able to implement everything previously agreed, a change was made and all these agreements were moved forward by one year. It was said that this increase, which should have taken place in 2009 (tax-free income of EEK 30000 per year, or EUR 160 per month), would come in 2010 one year later. Similarly, it was decided for 2011 and 2012 that the increase was postponed by one year. No one knew exactly how deep the crisis would develop. Time went on and, see a miracle, by 1 January 2010, it was clear that the budget would not allow such a dramatic change. A change was made, it was fixed that the income tax exemption was agreed at EEK 27000, which was previously agreed in 2008. Thus, the rate was fixed at EUR 1725,61 and did not take on any new potential commitments in the near future. The potential liabilities for 2011 and 2012 were no longer determined in this same § 23. The last amendment to this paragraph was made in 2011, i.e. a year later. Then, with regard to the euro changeover, the decimal places were calculated more precisely and it became clear that the exemption was not EUR 1725,61 but EUR 1728. These are the changes that have taken place with this § 23 on 1 January 2006, 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011. We now come to legal certainty and whether changes can be made or not. Of course, changes can be made; of course, the income tax rate for 2015 can also be changed. Of course, it can be done, as you wish, to increase it to 1%, i.e. 21% (I would remind you that the income tax rate in 2015 will fall to 20% under the agreement). It can also be agreed that we will not reduce 1%, but instead increase to another 5%, or 26%, as you have proposed in one of your earlier drafts, or 33%, as the Centre Party has proposed. These agreements can be made, the question is who are the coalition partners for such an agreement. The current coalition is not ready for this.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U70	Thomas Tõniste, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U71	Listening to this interesting discussion, to the questions of the initiators of the draft, and to the substantive answers, I wondered whether there was a debate in the Commission as to whether all these questions had to be asked in this Chamber and answered them for so long.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U72	Thank you. We do not have an arrangement with you on this issue. But I'll be honest with you, it really amazes me. If we have had drafts in the committee, over which we have had a long debate, I, as chairman of the committee, have never killed the debate, to put it metaphorically. Not even if the Members of the Commission have been clear before the debate. Often, some opinions have developed in the past. Even then, we have had debates that have lasted for hours. I honestly say that it is surprising that the debate on this draft lasted 17 minutes in the Commission. I was amazed, and I asked the counselor to question why. I surprised myself that there was no debate. But what is all the more pleasant is that there has been the formation and expression of tax policy opinions in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U73	Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U74	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Its debate can be divided into two parts. Firstly, it has been discussed whether and how much the tax-free minimum must be increased. Here, I understand, there's almost a consensus. The initiator of the bill has offered it in the bill, and you are also saying that it would be fair to increase the tax-free minimum. The other side of the debate has focused on the source of the cover, where it is, I have so understood, the differences of opinion. But it's a bill that needs three readings before it's passed as a law. Maybe it makes sense to continue this debate. If you also support the need to increase the tax-free minimum, then you could continue to process this bill and look for it in the interests of the Estonian people, how and at what expense?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U75	Good Deniss Borodich! I don't want to get personal, but I'm telling you, honestly, you should have spent the whole debate in the hall. I saw you weren't here. If you had been in the Chamber, you would have noticed that this question has already been asked. But since you're gonna ask me again, I'm gonna answer you. As you are clearly intended to increase the income tax rate by 1% in 2015, but the ruling coalition does not agree with this, it is not possible to proceed with this draft. You remain firmly in your positions, and the ruling coalition is firmly in its positions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U76	Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U77	If it got personal, I'll remind you of a nuance. When we were discussing land tax exemptions here, there were no sources of cover foreseen in the draft, but that did not interfere with the adoption of the law. If it is only the source of cover, not the content, then I think it would be more sensible to continue the debate on the subject. If you are not comfortable with this, then in order to achieve the general objective, we could look further and perhaps look for other sources of cover.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U78	Thank you. I leave you the opportunity to interpret what you think is reasonable and reasonable, with different levels of orientation and different levels of opinion. I will certainly not impose my opinion on you once and for all, and do not impose your opinion on me either. Once again, speaking of the positive side of the draft, the understanding presented by the Social Democrats that the tax-free minimum must be increased is very welcome. However, the notion that possible future tax policy changes could be made in the coming years by increasing the rate of income tax is not reflected in the ideology that the government has wanted to implement. So I propose not to support this draft in this wording, as it has been brought to this Chamber of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U79	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? They do. I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask the representative of the Social Democratic Party Group of the Riigikogu for a speech chair, Eiki Nestori!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U80	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Whoever has noticed, it knows that I rarely use the written text on this speaking board. But this time, I have to do it. To this end, I was motivated both by the debate in the Committee on Monetary Affairs and by today's questions and answers. In particular, the following quotations are intended for honourable members of the Riigikogu from the government coalition, but you do not know, perhaps also to some members of the opposition who will suddenly get lost in future being part of the government coalition. I will read to you a few places in the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia IV. Chapter 1. Paragraph 59: 'The legislative power belongs to the Riigikogu. ' Paragraph 60: 'The Riigikogu has one hundred and one members. The members of the Riigikogu shall be elected in free elections on the basis of the principle of proportionality. Every Estonian citizen with a right to vote of at least twenty-one years may apply to the Riigikogu. " No matter how you read the Constitution, from the beginning to the end or backwards, you do not see that the people choose the Ministry of Finance or the Minister of Finance. The fact that legislative power belongs to the Riigikogu means that we are here to adopt laws. The Income Tax Act is also a law. In other words, whatever country's strategy, including the budgetary strategy, must comply with the laws that have been adopted in the country or which we are discussing here. What is important in the context of this draft? The tax-free minimum must be mobile size. In Estonia, it is reasonably agreed that the country's budgetary strategies will be prepared in advance after three years. Consequently, the tax-free minimum should always be planned for three years. As you understood from the debate, even if you have not considered it possible to read the draft, these same increases have already been written in exactly the same order of magnitude in the law as a political agreement. The Government Union could now clearly state why it prefers to reduce the income tax rate rather than increase the tax-free minimum. This is the actual debate that the honourable co-rapporteur of the Commission has not commented on here. The legitimate expectation that the tax-free minimum will increase is that it will be longer than the expectation that the tax will be lowered. So to this bill, I'm sorry, there is nothing to blame for the strategic planning of state money. The draft has been made in the spirit that three years in advance will be known how much tax-free income will increase. By the way, this would mean that next year it should be discussed again how much it will increase in 2017. I would have hoped for something else from the government union, not to be whacked at EUR 500 and 5000. I also do not consider it very reasonable that the Minister of Finance goes out with arguments that are not to be redeemed during his so-called term of office. This, in turn, may be debated. However, it would have been wise to act in such a way that this draft would remain in Riigikogu proceedings, and if the strategy of April 4 confirms that there are opportunities to increase it, then this draft could be further processed and, if necessary, even increased. Since there was talk here about what no one will agree with under any circumstances, I am afraid that if there is a proposal from the government union to increase the tax-free minimum next year, it will remain a one-off step. When you prepare your draft, be logical in terms of planning public money. But the Riigikogu adopts decisions and laws and strategies are based on them, not the other way around.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U81	Thank you. I ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, Sven Sesteri! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U82	Ladies and gentlemen, Let me talk a little bit about the impact of changes in the tax system on the economy. Changes in taxes and rates may have different objectives. While the objective of tax reform is to ensure the neutrality of the distribution of the tax burden, the impact of tax-free income is generally compensated by indirect taxation today. Both efficiency and redistribution issues are important for the tax system. The critical assessment of the content and meaning of the tax reform must also take into account social preferences, against the background of changes in the distribution of income over the last dozen years. The extra euro means much more to a low-income citizen than to a high-wager. Social preferences are based on people's understanding of the level of their economic livelihood. I totally agree with that! Individual income tax systems in Europe are mainly progressive, but tier rates and the scale of redistribution vary widely. When assessing the share of personal income tax in total income in the context of the European Union, Estonia belongs to the lowest level of Eastern European countries, with four countries in Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Poland and Hungary having a lower share of personal income tax than Estonia. In the Nordic countries, this indicator is, of course, several times higher. The consumer's well-being will decline if net wages fall or prices rise. If wages do not change but prices increase, the consumer will be in the same situation as if net wages had decreased but prices remained the same. As a result of these changes, demand and supply in the economy as a whole react. A reduction in income tax or an increase in the tax-free minimum will lead to an increase in net wages, with the direct tax effect almost entirely passed on to wages. Economic policy has highlighted the importance of reducing labour-related taxes, i.e. direct taxes, when it comes to creating and maintaining jobs over the last few decades. In order to compensate for the loss of tax revenue, it is preferable to increase indirect taxes. However, there is a difference of opinion on the more specific impact of the change on the economy. The European Commission and the OECD share the view that lowering direct taxes will stimulate demand for labour. However, the position in favour of the importance of supply highlights the impact on net wages, the increase in disposable income generates additional labour supply and contributes to employment. However, the conclusions take the same view: a positive impact on GDP is guaranteed due to the increase in aggregate demand. I will also talk a little bit about increasing tax-free income and its alternatives. Estonia's 2013 state budget explanatory memorandum indicates that economic policy aims to reduce taxes related to labour. This objective is consistent with tax research, global trends and macro-economic levels. Therefore, the analysis of tax-free income and related proposals also leads to the conclusion that any changes must not be increased and rather the collection of labour-related taxes must be reduced. In one of his interviews, the Minister of Finance has said that an increase in the tax-free income of EUR 10 means that the State will receive EUR 20 million in outstanding revenue. However, it seems to me that this conclusion does not take into account the impact of net wage increases on consumption, which is positive, and VAT receipts, which is increasing. In addition, the effect will be to reduce the distortion caused by income tax, which will contribute to aggregate demand. The initial and short-term negative effects on direct taxes will certainly be offset by indirect taxes and economic efficiency over the longer term. Tax-free income has remained at the same level in Estonia since 2008. Its real purchasing power has decreased significantly, given the changes in the overall consumer price index, including the fall in purchasing power for important human expenditure items such as food, housing, energy and fuel, even by up to a quarter. In the first phase, an increase in tax-free income should restore its purchasing power. For example, its ratio to average wages could be 18%, as we had five years ago. 18% is also the ratio of the Latvian tax-free income to their average salary. In the Nordic countries, as I said in the past, this figure is twice as high as 35 to 40%. In essence, this means that tax-free income per month should reach as much as EUR 180. The net impact on tax receipts cannot be a stronger argument than the impact on consumer welfare. Any downward shift in direct taxes creates, rather than reduces, the well-being of society. The proposed tax-free changes must have a real impact on the economy as a whole and on the labour market as a narrower area. In this context, the Minister of Finance gave a message in an interview that Estonia as a whole certainly does not need to increase tax-free income. It's in my ear. I do not like this statement, I feel that it is wrong. It is the Estonian economy as a whole that will benefit from this increase. Income tax is not only one of the most difficult to understand taxes, but also a clearly unfavorable tool in fiscal policy, even in the plans of the Estonian state budget. I would point out that the objective of economic policy is to reduce labour-related taxes (RES 2013). The increase in net wages gives a positive signal to the labour market. When a person realizes that the reward for work increases, there is also an incentive to work harder. Some of those who were previously indifferent to work can now return to the labour market. It is likely to have a marginal but positive effect on the person who is incubating plans to leave Estonia, who can now consider staying because he sees positive changes in working at home. But the economy has 70% psychology, said one of the promoters of German economic reforms, the former Minister of Economic Affairs Ludwig Wilhelm Erhard. The rate of partial employment and underemployment in society is increasing. Five years ago, the share of those employed was 8%, now almost 12%. Increases in tax-free income are particularly important for this part of the workforce. Who's part of it? Mostly young, single parents and elderly. Thus, the part of society that, by virtue of its specific nature, does not have the opportunity to work harder to achieve a better standard of living. As a result of all this, the impact of tax-free income increases on employment and thus also on the efficiency of the economy and the money market as a whole is favourable. I do not find any serious economic arguments against tax-free income increases. Empirical research confirms the benefits of reducing labour taxation to society. However, the issues of tax reduction or redistribution are already secondary in nature and cannot be an end in itself; rather, they are a means of promoting a general standard of living. To make it easier to understand where we are, I will also bring a comparison between tax-free income and average wages for our neighbouring countries. As I said, the level of the tax-free minimum, compared to the average wage, is 42% in Sweden, 41% in Finland in the United Kingdom, currently 30%, but it will be 37%, 36% in Denmark, 36% in Slovakia, 33% in Poland, 18% in Latvia and 16% in Estonia. The example of England's current economic policy is immensely inspiring. The government is making a powerful change there, increasing tax-free income, with the level of the previous year, approximately 30% of the average wage, reaching 37% in April of next year. The arguments I mentioned earlier are all in use in England to explain the need for this reform. In addition, the fact that, as energy costs increase, there has been an increase in the share of the population, which is characterised by the so-called "fuel poverty'. This means that the share of heating, energy, lighting and related costs in family spending is over one tenth. So there's troubles like ours. Finally, I'm talking about the bill. Both tax exemption increases and tax reduction are tax policy options. The proposal provides for the opt-out of a reduction in the tax rate as a source of cover. However, this reduction has already been adopted as a law, and abandoning it would mean reviewing coalition agreements. We do not agree with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U83	Thank you. I invite Kadri Simson, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much. You must agree that Sven Sester's speech was very interesting. First of all, he gave a very inspiring speech in support of an increase in the tax-free minimum and finally confirmed that if the coalition partner does not want it and does not agree with it, there is nothing the IRL can do. In fact, however, there is clear support from three political parties in this Chamber for increasing the tax-free minimum. Sometimes it could also be assumed that if there are votes in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, the decision that is useful to the people of Estonia must be made. The Centre Party will certainly support an increase in the tax-free minimum, as this minimum has been frozen for five years. While the ratio of the tax-free minimum to the average wage was 21.3% in 2006, it has now fallen to 16.8%. Price increases and any increase in the cost of living have significantly reduced the tax-free minimum. Now I'm talking about when the tax-free minimum could be increased. We know that the Minister of Finance has also said that this is a very necessary thing, but it could be done sometime in the future, after 2015. In fact, the state has the financial resources to increase the tax-free minimum much earlier. You can't get behind the fact that the 1% tax reduction is included in the Income Tax Act and it's like it's in stone. On the contrary, the Income Tax Act has been amended 66 times in this century. These percentages have also been changed at very short notice. Who has been put at the highest tax burden with tax increases in recent years? These are people who earn the average salary and under it. These are people for whom it cannot be said that their small wages simply show that they work inefficiently. For example, much has been said recently about the salaries of teachers. The minimum wage for a youth educator is 715 euros, the most experienced educators, methodological teachers, receive 889 euros. This means that all teachers working in schools would benefit more from an increase in the tax-free minimum than they would benefit from a 1% tax reduction. Most of the Estonian workers, the recipients, are people who have higher education and who are doing their job in a very efficient and committed manner and who would benefit from an increase in the tax-free minimum. An increase in the tax-free minimum would cost the state budget EUR 70 million, as much as a reduction in the income tax percentage in 2015. The votes in the Riigikogu, at least at the level of rhetoric, are together to increase the tax-free minimum. Why don't we do this together? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-28_U85	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The commission has proposed to reject the draft 359 at first reading. Dear colleagues, I would like to put to the vote the draft proposal of the commission to reject it at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 43 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 20 against and no abstentions. Draft 359 Act amending the Income Tax Act, initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group, has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure. The second item is closed. Good fellows, today's session is closed. I thank you and wish you strength! Closure of the sitting at 11.43 a.m.
