ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister. We will begin the Monday session of the seventh working week of the plenary session of the Riigikogu. Now it's time to hand over the drafts and inquiries. First of all, I would like to ask Mrs Heili Tõnisson, representative of the Government of the Republic of the Speaker's Office.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U2	Madam Chairman! Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic is today launching five draft laws: firstly, the Protocol on the concerns of the Irish people annexed to the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union regarding the Treaty of Lisbon, the draft act on ratification, the draft procedure in the Riigikogu is represented by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Paet; secondly, the draft law amending the Water Act, the draft in the Riigikogu is represented by the Minister of Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimannus; thirdly, the draft law amending the Law on the organisation of health services and related amendments to other laws, the Riigikogu represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft in Taavi Rõivas; fourthly, the draft law amending the Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Customs Act and the Prison Act; fifthly, the draft law amending the Copyright Act. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Justice, represents the Government of the Republic in the course of handling the last two drafts in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U3	Thank you. Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U4	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister and Minister! I have the honour to make a question on behalf of the 12 members of the Central Party Group concerning ferry traffic. In 2013, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications allocates EUR 15.7 million to OÜ for the organisation of public ferry services between the mainland and Saaremaa and Hiiumaa, as well as on the route between Saaremaa and Hiiumaa. Last year, EUR 15.1 million was allocated to support Väinamere Lines in the organisation of regular services, while in 2011 the GmbH received EUR 13 million. In addition to 15,7 million euros, the Riigikogu Reform Party Group and the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Association decided to direct further 600000 euros from the state budget to OÜ Väinamere Lines to supplement the schedules and ticketing. It is to be welcomed that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is paying attention to regional policy and the development of islands, but unfortunately the constantly increasing support does not actually reach the people. In February of this year, new prices for shipping tickets started to apply, which is almost 25% higher than previously. For example, a family of four who are going on holiday to Hiiumaa for the weekend in a passenger car will have to pay EUR 44.4 for the return trip. It is quite difficult to make this amount for ferry crossings. It is incomprehensible that subsidies are increasing, but tickets are also increasing at the same speed or faster rate. We therefore have questions for the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U5	Thank you. I have adopted five draft laws and one inquiry on behalf of the board. If the draft laws comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board decides to grant them to the proceedings within three working days, and if an inquiry complies with this law, I shall forward it to the addressee immediately. Now some messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: first, the President of the Republic, Toomas Hendrik Ilves s. A draft of the Riigikogu decision "Alar Karis appointed Auditor General" submitted on 28 February, a leading committee, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; secondly, the Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu. a Draft of the Riigikogu's decision " Appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board of the State Forest Management Centre," presented on 27 February, commission of the Environment Committee; thirdly, the Estonian Centre Party Group. a Draft Act amending the Riigikogu Election Act, initiated on 28 February, commission of the Constitutional Committee. I have forwarded the inquiry of the members of the Riigikogu to Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas and Minister of Culture Rein Lang, but I have returned it to the performers. Ladies and gentlemen, please, let us now do the presence check. 90 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 11. Let us go to the adoption of this week's agenda, but first, please pay attention. The Social Committee proposes to remove the draft 332 from the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu, i.e. the draft law amending the medicine law, the penal code and the state fee law. This is the fifth item on the agenda. With this addition, I will put this week's agenda to the vote. Please vote! 85 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the adoption of the agenda, with no votes against or abstentions. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U6	Let's get to work. Let's get to today's agenda. Answering questions begins. The first is the members of the Riigikogu Andres Anvelt, Eiki Nestori, Heljo Pikhofi, Helmen Küti, Jaak Allik, Jaan Õunapuu, Kajar Lemberi, Kalev Kotkas, Kalvi Tõud, Karel Rüütli, Marianne Mikko, Mart Meri, Neeme Suur and Rannar Vasiliyev on 24 January. A request for information on Estonia's policy to increase equality at decision-making level (No 274). My colleague Marianne Mikko of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U7	Mr President, Prime Minister and Minister of Social Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen, A year ago, on 13 March 2012, the European Parliament approved the resolution on gender equality in the European Union, drawn up by Sophia in't Veld, a member of the Liberals' Association (ALDE), in 2011. It calls on the European Commission to provide, as soon as possible, data on the representation of women in all types of businesses in the European Union and on the mandatory and voluntary measures recently approved by businesses and Member States in order to increase women's representation. However, it is noted that the Commission's report on women's participation in economic decision-making shows that action by Member States and businesses has not been sufficient. It also reiterates the call for 2011 for countries to develop legislation in 2012, including quotas to increase the representation of women on company boards by 30% by 2015 and 40% by 2020. In anticipation of the proposal for a directive, Minister for Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur, together with eight other ministers in the Eastern bloc, wrote a letter to the President of the European Commission, José Manuel Barroso, and Vice-President Viviane Reding, in September 2012. The letter supports the Commission's view that it should increase the opportunities for women to participate in decision-making, but considers that achieving the target is primarily a task for which appropriate solutions should be found within countries. In November, the European Commission presented a proposal for a directive to improve gender balance among non-executive directors of listed companies. The Directive is based on studies that show the greatest progress in achieving gender equality in those countries where binding measures are in place. The regulation of the Directive would concern companies with more than 250 employees with an annual turnover of more than EUR 50 million and listed on the stock exchange. Ten companies meet these criteria in Estonia. On 13 December 2012, the Estonian Government decided that Estonia did not support the establishment of a Union-level quota for the gender distribution of non-executive directors of listed companies. At the same time, the government agrees with the approach that women and men in all Member States should be guaranteed a level playing field for leadership positions and in principle supports the European Commission's overall objective of guaranteeing a more balanced representation of women and men among board members of listed companies. I recall that the Commission's proposal is gender neutral, referring to the underrepresented sex. In the coming years, it will be de facto beneficial for women. Otherwise, the directive focuses mainly on qualifications and not on gender. The gender aspect only comes into play in the case of equal qualifications, only until the underrepresented sex reaches 40% representation in the councils. Individual assessments of qualifications shall be carried out each time. The fact that there are sufficiently highly qualified women is not disputed by anyone. According to the last census, the proportion of women with higher education among all people with higher education in Estonia was 64%. This shows that there is no shortage of smart and educated women in Estonia who are able to make competent, important decisions. It is not conceivable, therefore, that greater involvement and promotion of women in leading positions in companies could lead to an attack on foolish women, as some members of the Estonian government office have argued here and there misleadingly and appallingly. Thus, the Social Democrats want to know why Estonia opposes the introduction of a gender quota in the boards of stock exchange companies.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U8	Thank you very much, Mr Mikko. I would now like to ask the Prime Minister to answer the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U9	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs, I'll answer your questions. The first question: 'Did the government's decision not to support the introduction of a mandatory quantitative target (quota) at European Union level on the gender distribution of non-executive directors of listed companies lead to outdated stereotype views on the role of women or rational arguments? Please present the reasons for the government's decision. " If there is a choice between outdated stereotypes and rational arguments, the government generally prefers the latter when making its decisions. The same was true for gender quotas. The questioners should be aware that the positions of the government were discussed in the five standing committees of the Riigikogu. All the committees decided to support the government's approach. All 11 listed companies that could have been affected by this proposal were also involved in the discussions. The competence of persons appointed to councils was also identified by the stock exchange companies as a priority criterion. As stated in the confirmed positions, the government supports equal opportunities for women and men in all Member States in order to work in management positions. We support the Commission's overall objective of ensuring a more balanced representation of women and men among board members of listed companies. However, the introduction of a mandatory quota with a European Union directive would only affect a small group of companies and, at the same time, would be an excessive barrier to the freedom to conduct a business. The second question: 'The liberals of Europe have argued that self-regulation will take another 40 years before women achieve a balanced representation in company councils. What measures at European level would the government of Estonia led by liberals want to see in order to increase equality at decision-making level? " The government considers it important to raise awareness of a broad society and businesses. Increased awareness of gender equality is essential to create a non-prejudiced environment for both career and professional choices. At European Union level, we consider it important to have Member States' experience and exchange of good practices, as well as pan-European communication activities and measures to encourage businesses to set voluntary targets to increase the proportion of women on boards. In determining the corporate governance framework, the government, at EU level, will in particular support indicative instruments. Question 3: 'Please introduce the measures mentioned in the letter of Minister of Social Affairs Hanno Pevkur that Estonia is implementing to promote equal opportunities for women at decision-making level! "In order to raise society's awareness, the Ministry of Social Affairs organised an extensive information campaign called "Invitation' in 2010, in which a number of examples of people who made free career choices about gender stereotypes were presented to the public. The goal was to help people realize that there are not only jobs suitable for women or men. Training for employers and practical guidance material have been used to implement the current law more effectively, mainly the Gender Equality Act. Opportunities have been created for aid to persons who feel unequal treatment between men and women. In order to protect your rights, you can contact both the judiciary and the Gender Equality and Equal Treatment Commissioner. Removing obstacles to reconciliation between work, family and private life is also important. On the one hand, steps have been taken to increase flexible childcare facilities, on the other hand, measures have been taken to ensure a more equal distribution of care obligations between women and men, both in the form of information measures aimed at reducing stereotypes and in the form of legal measures. For example, paternity pay was restored at the beginning of 2013. Question 4: 'Admissibility to select female candidates for decision-making positions is often justified in recruiting and promoting gender stereotypes. What has prevented you from choosing ministers on the basis of equal representation of both sexes? Why does the government not set a positive example by naming women to the boards of state-owned companies? " The government has not appointed any men or women to the boards of state-owned companies. As far as ministers are concerned, I would have been very happy to have had more women to choose from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U10	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Let's get to the questions. First of all, please, my colleague, Mr Ossinovski.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U11	Prime Minister! The inquiry mentioned a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the gender balance of boards of exchange companies. You rightly said that this proposal was discussed in the five committees of the Riigikogu. In the Committee on European Union Affairs, it became clear that our Gender Equality Commissioner, who is the institution that should analyse the impact of legislation on gender balance, was not involved in this process. My question is: before the government decided not to support this proposal on quotas, why was the Gender Equality Commissioner not involved?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U12	I cannot confirm or contradict the statement that you have put forward at the moment. Involvement at government level means that the bill is sent to interested parties. I assume that the Gender Equality Commissioner was also the interested party to whom the draft was sent. It then receives written feedback on whether the draft is coordinated, supported or opposed. Based on the opinions expressed and, of course, on their understanding, the members of the government will make a decision. The Commissioner for Equality should probably also address this issue and ask him if he has presented his views and, if so, what they were. It is certainly not conceivable that the government and the five Riigikogu committees discussed the issue without the interested officials even being aware of it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U13	Please, my colleague Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U14	Thank you very much. The Government's decision of 13 December states that it agrees with the approach of the draft directive that a level playing field for women and men in management positions should be ensured in all Member States. Since you are opposed to what the Commission has proposed, please explain what solutions the Estonian government sees to solve this pan-European problem! At the same time, please do not use terms such as'self-regulation' or'revolution' because the studies have established that they are not working. What is this magical unique Estonian path to European entrepreneurship without leading women?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U15	I do not share your scepticism that self-regulation is not working. You could add to that by further developing your point that the introduction of quotas is working. In fact, no studies have been carried out with such conclusions to support your claim. On the contrary, European practice unequivocally confirms that even in countries where there are no gender quotas, for example, the gender pay gap may be almost non-existent. I am sorry that you are not listening to my response at all now, but I am still trying to draw your attention to the gender pay gap that the Eastern European countries that you mentioned as not a good example before are an example of the gender pay gap for the whole of the European Union. The gender pay gap in the European Union is the smallest in Slovenia, Poland is the second largest, and it is virtually non-existent in Bulgaria as well. Lithuania and Latvia can also serve as an excellent example for the rest of Europe, including the part of Europe that loves gender rotation. So if we want to gain experience from someone, we should first go to the most successful in Slovenia, Poland, Latvia and Lithuania. Of course, it would also be worth noting Italy, which has the smallest gender pay gap in the old EU countries. So it would be worth taking a much wider approach rather than focusing fanatically on the introduction of gender quotas. According to current scientific understanding, this is not justified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U16	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U17	Prime Minister! The Gender Equality Act was introduced 8 years, 11 months and 11 days ago. During this period, the government has not been able to endorse the Gender Equality Council and has not established a list of gender-based labour statistics to be collected. These tasks derive directly from this law. Do you think that, when it comes to promoting equality, the government can carry out its obligations selectively and fail to comply with some of them, even though the law explicitly requires this to be done?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U18	Surely the government has no right not to comply with the law. But this Gender Equality Council is a slightly more complicated case than it seems at first sight. It is not possible to find experts at a very good level in this Council, as many who have been approached have not considered it appropriate to set up such a council. But the law is to be enforced. And if the law is not enforceable, then the law must be amended.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U19	Please, colleague Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U20	Mr. Prime Minister! You said that the government would support information and training, not quotas. You also said that the government does not appoint members of the boards of state-owned or state-owned companies, it is the ministers, and that, as far as ministers are concerned, you personally would like to see more women among them. I'd like that, too. But if, for example, we take a lot of state-owned or state-owned companies, such as Estonian Air and Eesti Energia, which have recently formed media, we can see that there really are no women in the Soviets. Has Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi and Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts also participated in the information and training activities you have recommended? Or, if they haven't received it yet, do you think they should go to training for breaking gender stereotypes?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U21	I am convinced that the dissemination of knowledge in society must be broader than simply going to training. The fact that we, too, have not observed gender proportionality in the boards of state-owned companies, certainly does not do the honour of those ministers who have appointed persons to the councils. But I'll come back to the most important thing. The most important thing is competence. This must be the determining factor in the way people are appointed to councils.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U22	Please, Mr Laine Randjärv!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U23	Prime Minister! I have a very specific question. When the European directive talks about equal opportunities, how do you think it might be understood that the percentages involved are 40 and 60? When we talk about equal opportunities, shouldn't the ratio be between 50 and 50? Is this really a serious fight in this sense? It's on the one hand. On the other hand, is it not discriminatory for everyone to set quotas at all? In one place or another, there may be more than 60% of qualified men, and why should they be restricted to the council of one company or another?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U24	Yes, 40% and 60% certainly do not mean equal opportunities. However, the existence of equal opportunities does not mean that there will be equal representation of men and women in the councils. I don't support squatting as a liberal. I also know some negative quoting experience. People my age know that from Soviet times. The quota economy was certainly a factor that hampered economic development at the time. The introduction of quotas did not ensure equality but, on the contrary, was unequal treatment. In other parts of the world, countries where quotas have been set according to the color of the skin can be found, and there are unintended consequences, in addition to good results, in such a way. So awareness-raising is certainly a more lasting solution than coercive quotas.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U25	Please, colleague Heljo Pikhof!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U26	Prime Minister! The explanatory memorandum to the Directive states that although the rules of preference laid down in the draft directive apply only to candidates with equal qualifications, competence and professional capacity, the perception that a woman has become a member of the Council because of a quota may become widespread in society, not because of her skills, knowledge and experience. My question is: aren't you afraid that if women do not exist at all at the level of leadership, the perception that women can't manage, they don't have the skills, knowledge and experience they need?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U27	A straightforward answer to the question: not afraid! There's no reason to be afraid! The companies that would have been affected by this draft directive in Estonia are very different, and there are certainly companies among them where the quota offered has already been met in the natural development of things. However, even those companies that would have no problems even if a quota were introduced were categorically opposed to quoting.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U28	Please, colleague Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U29	Prime Minister! I know that medically this problem is often interfered with today, but it is not always, and in any case it is not. In some cases this is not possible. In fact, there are also hermaphrodites, or two - sexes, among us. Surprise, surprise, there isn't even one thing about them in the gender quota documents! What do you make of that, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U30	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U31	I'd leave that feeling as part of those who are much better off on this subject than I am. I'm not very familiar with these nuances. Since I am against squatting anyway, I would also give equal opportunities to the circle of persons you mentioned, I would not leave them out of one quota or another.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U32	Mr. Prime Minister! The Riigikogu Board will be elected next Thursday. So far, there are two women and one man on the Board of the Riigikogu. In the interests of equality, could there be two men and one woman in the next?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U33	Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U34	On this point, I am not giving an opinion simply because I am not a member of the Riigikogu. It is not appropriate for the Head of Government to tell the Riigikogu in advance what the gender composition of the Board of the Riigikogu should be. It wouldn't be acceptable, it wouldn't be nice.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U35	Good Prime Minister! But for members of the government, I'm sure it's quite appropriate for you to express your opinion. You admitted that both the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Minister of Finance, who has manned the leadership of both Eesti Energia and Estonian Air, do not honour that there are only one-sex people in these councils. At the same time, you expressed the opinion that the most important thing really is competence. How do you feel about whether the choices made by ministers have been the reason for these ministers' perhaps not a very good overview of Estonia's capable potential members of the council, or whether this one-sided result is rather because there are no competent women in Estonia who could belong to these councils?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U36	Gender stereotypes are certainly stronger in some areas of life than in others. It is not just a question of mentality; the question is that in some areas of life, persons of one sex operate much more than in other areas of life. We all know that miners are mostly men. It's been a long time that pilots are mostly men, but lately this stereotype has been changed, and I feel very confident when a woman drives a plane. Aviation in general has been a manly area according to these stereotypes. But I don't think it should be like that in the future. However, I do not agree with those who think that the problems with Estonian Air would not have existed if there had been only women in the Estonian Air Council, or if there had been 40% of women there and 60% of men there. These problems are still inherent, due to our geographical location, the application of the principles of the open sky and the resulting consequences for countries like Estonia. However, the specific mismanagement that has been made in the company cannot be denied, but these errors might as well have been made by women.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U37	Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U38	Prime Minister! How do you generally assess the proportion of women in our public sector and in Estonian politics? It is always more difficult to impose regulations on the private sector, but the public sector is essentially managed by your government and you can do a great deal for the private sector to set an example precisely in eliminating gender stereotypes and also in encouraging people to stand for some Council. According to me, there were no women among the six original candidates, even if we took the recent competition of the Director-General of the Police and Border Guard Board. Why are we in this situation? What do you think is the role of the light indicator of the Estonian public sector throughout the country?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U39	I very much appreciate the public sector in Estonia. We have a great many competent officials serving the country loyal to the state. And I am pleased that the majority of the competent officials loyal to their country are women. Recently, we could also read in one newspaper that most of the Estonians working in the European Commission are women. Women are well represented in the Estonian public service, both in terms of number and even better in terms of quality. Unfortunately, there are far fewer women in the Riigikogu than men, and this is not the choice of the Prime Minister, it is the choice of the people. Raising awareness in this area is probably a much wider area of activity than just finding an informed Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U40	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U41	Thank you very much, Madam President. Prime Minister! I'm glad to hear you're so good at women. My question to you is this. Have you told your cabinet members that if it was possible to choose between a woman and a man, they would sometimes prefer a competent woman to a certain position? If you have not said so, are you going to make this recommendation?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U42	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U43	The Prime Minister is not a class leader, he's not a teacher of the cabinet. Every minister knows that the appointment is based on competence. I assume, on this basis, that ministers will also make their choices and decisions on appointment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U44	Good Prime Minister! I'm asking about the women in the election and the election lists. As we know, in the last parliamentary elections, the Centre Party has at least drawn the top of the list by using the so-called zipper system: the first number of the man, then the woman, then the man and again the woman. In the European Parliament elections, there were six men and six women out of 12 candidates, so there has been completely equal treatment within the political party. The Social Democrats have talked about this, too, but they still haven't gotten to what they're doing. Such a suggestion has also come from the population that it could even be written in law that it should use a zipper system in the elections. How do you feel about this as head of government?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U45	I am a strong supporter of democracy, and I support the choices of the people. The Reform Party shall establish lists on the basis of internal elections. I do not want to dictate their choices to people, either inside the party or at the level of the Estonian state or at other levels, on the basis of any quotas. Let the freedom of choice remain.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U46	Please, my colleague Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U47	In addition to your serious support for democracy, you have generally supported a great deal of initiatives from all kinds of Europe. This particular directive, which has been much discussed here today, how do you view it as a prime minister from a 'European perspective'?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U48	This directive does not have its own positive objectives, but also its own negative aspects. This is not a black and white issue: good or bad, democratic or non-democratic. The objectives are noble, but the means to achieve them are not very democratic. That is why I personally have not supported this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U49	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U50	Good Prime Minister! You said that directives coming from Europe could have both positive and negative aspects. Obviously, if Europe were to be ordered that we should be based on gender in the selection of people to positions of responsibility, that would be negative for us. I liked your answers today. Are you ready to give this signal to the European Union, too, that we do not like all the Brussels directives?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U51	Of course, I express my views frankly both here and in Brussels, but there is no reason to upset some abstract European Union that you say is hurting us. It is up to us to make these decisions, whether we are imposing quotas or not. To date, five permanent committees of the Riigikogu have taken the view that they do not support quotas; the government has exactly the same view. It makes no sense for us to take any position as a loser and complain that we are being harmed. The European Union comes with decisions that support democracy, not with decisions that stifle democracy.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U52	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U53	Prime Minister! You said that when a woman flies a plane, you feel very safe and secure. Of course, in the Estonian Air Council, the airmen are not sitting, just the competent people are sitting, unfortunately, all men. I know a lot of smart women in the Reform Party, there's a minister woman in the government. Do you think it would be easier to run the country if there were another woman working as a minister?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U54	It's all about the competence of individuals. If women's ministers were competent, it would, of course, be easy to run the country if it weren't competent, it would be harder to manage. I have no reason to speculate on such things. Unfortunately, there's only one female minister in this government, and that's the government I run as Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U55	No further questions. Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U56	We are going to the following question: Members of the Riigikogu Andres Anvelt, Eiki Nestori, Heljo Pikhofi, Helmen Küti, Indrek Saare, Jaan Õunapuu, Kalev Kotkas, Kalvi Tõm, Karel Rüütli, Mart Meri, Neeme Suur, Rannar Vassilyev and Rein Randver submitted on 28 January 2012 (No 276). My colleague, Andres Anvelt, to the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U57	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I will continue on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party with a series of questions on the increase in drug deaths. We have also asked the Minister for the Interior about this, and this has been discussed several times in this Chamber over several years. We had developed a national strategy for drug prevention until 2012, which was in force last year until 31 December. One of the important objectives of this strategy was the comprehensive reduction of the damage related to drug addiction in Estonian society, in particular through the saving of human lives and human health. Instead of the expected fall in drug deaths, the number of drug deaths increased dramatically. While in 2001 there were 38 drug deaths in Estonia, in 2012 there were 160. With this, Estonia has become a very sad priority in Europe: given the size of the population, we have more than seven times the proportion of drug deaths compared to the average in Europe. At the same time, as a positive example of this, I can point out a decrease in the number of accidents deaths over the years. This number has fallen below 100. The number of people killed in road accidents and fires has fallen to 50.60 in the last ten years, which is a seriously good figure. But the same number of drug deaths of 160, which most people are very young, is again a very bad figure. In Postimees on 21 January of this year, a representative of the police in this area stated that, although police action has allegedly been active, we have to admit that we have suffered a failure. By this 'we', he meant not only the police, but the entire Estonian state in all anti-drug activities in general. It is difficult not to accept this statement when looking at these figures. The police report on the confiscation of large quantities of drugs and related criminal money and record figures on the apprehension of drug criminals. Statistics, however, are sad. The number of procedures related to small quantities of drugs, i.e. street trafficking, is particularly marked in a negative way as compared to 2008. The number of proceedings in 2012 was 190 lower. All these lethal amounts, however, no matter what the substance is, the Minister of the Interior told us about the flooding of the Estonian drug market with fentanyl, have been bought on the street, which means that the police have been operating much more inefficiently than years ago. In 2012, the National Institute for Health Development carried out a study on the patterns of drug use among the 15- to 16-year-olds. This showed that the estimated use of drugs, and thus the availability of drugs, has increased rather than decreased. In 2003, at the time of the launch of this same drug strategy, the proportion of young people using the drug was 24%, in 2011, in the penultimate year of this strategy, but already 32%. The 2011 report on the drug strategy published on the government's website contains a great many positive results in terms of preventive activities, drug seizures and the conduct of various projects, but the reality surrounding us, as well as the statements of specialists, unfortunately point to a very sad tendency. Unfortunately, in Question Time on 23 January, the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher, left the current drug strategy essentially unanswered and did not directly assess the activities of his administration in this area. Consequently, we are asking the Prime Minister six questions. Why has it gone like this, and what will happen in anti-drug activities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U58	Thank you very much, Mr Anvelt. Please, Prime Minister, to the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U59	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs, I'll answer your questions. The first question: what is your assessment, as head of government, of the failure of the national strategy for drug prevention until 2012? The drug prevention strategy until 2012 was drawn up in 2004 using the best knowledge and skills of its time. The implementation of this has certainly helped to improve the situation in Estonia. At the time of drafting the strategy, it was clear that drug addiction was a serious problem for Estonia. At the same time, there was a lack of experience and competence in combating drug addiction. The overall objective of the national strategy was to reduce drug supply and demand and to create a functioning treatment and rehabilitation system for addicts. Many of the objectives set out in the strategy have been met, but much of the work still needs to be done. The number of injecting drug users has decreased, overall supply reduction targets have been met, and a functioning control system has been set up in prisons to prevent access to drugs. Inmate drug addicts are guaranteed treatment and rehabilitation opportunities in prison. More needs to be done in the future in order to carry out many of the tasks set out. For example, the proportion of 15-64-year-olds who have taken drugs has increased at least once in their lifetime, drug use among women and school pupils has increased, as well as drug deaths. As has been said, the strategy for the prevention of drug addiction until 2012 cannot be considered a failure, as many of the objectives set have been met and this strategy will help shape further actions. The second question: has the cooperation of your government ministries within the framework of the national strategy for drug prevention been satisfactory and has the objectives set been achieved or not? If not, to what extent and in the field? The phenomenon of drug addiction begins with the living environment of children and teenagers and the general spiritual, physical and social well-being. This concerns a large number of the activities of the state and local authorities. If the aim is to reduce drug addiction effectively, all of this must be taken into account. Prevention, treatment and reducing the fallback of addicts' vices depend to a large extent on the capacity of cooperation between the state and society as a whole. At times, the activities so far have been too fragmented. The third question: have the necessary efforts been made in the areas of government of the various ministries and, if not, where is the area most lacking? The systemic nature of prevention could have been better. Although drug information is included in the curriculum of general education schools, more programmes involving the school environment as a whole should be created, children and young people should be invested in the development of social and emotional skills and parents should be involved in prevention activities. A major challenge is also the creation of a social environment conducive to drug-free life for those who try to break free from addiction. A former or released addict needs help in developing social coping skills, needs labour market services, social support and a safe living environment so as not to be tempted to re-use drugs. The fourth question: do you think that the Ministry of the Interior's anti-drug activity has been at the appropriate level and that the fight against drug crime has served its purpose? Do you think that the reduction in the number of drug crimes in statistics is a positive or negative process? Reducing the availability of drugs has been a long-standing priority for both the government and the Ministry of the Interior. Reducing both supply and demand is important in drug prevention. The police can do everything they can to limit the spread of drugs that they depend on, but it will not do any good without treatment for addicts and drug prevention. This requires effective cooperation between the different bodies. A government committee on drug prevention was set up in spring 2012. The Commission aims to strategically manage and coordinate both prevention and reduction of supply. In addition to the permanent members of the Government Commission, experts representing civil society and state and local government institutions will be involved in the work. The aim is to combine and plan the activities of different bodies together, to ensure monitoring of joint activities, to avoid duplication of effort and to ensure that the fight against drugs is kept under constant observation. The general trend is that there would be significantly fewer teenagers in Estonia who fall into the hands of alcohol and drug addiction. Question 5: What measures is the government planning in the near future to change the situation towards improvement and ultimately to reverse the number of drug deaths? In addition to the above-mentioned government commission, several special police operations were launched last year, resulting in 51 suspected street dealers being identified. In total, in 2012, the police sent 577 suspected drug-related crime suspects to the prosecutor's office, which is almost 30 more than in 2011. More will be done by the criminal police and other law enforcement bodies. In order to make the fight against drug addiction more effective, six drug police officers will be added to the current 70 drug police officers, who will primarily deal with criminals selling drugs directly on the street. Additional funding was also provided to increase the technical capacity to direct the fight against drugs to serious drug crime and organised groups. The high number of overdose deaths is associated with the widespread spread of fentanyl. Fentanyl is much stronger than other opioids. Estonia is one of the few countries in the world where this substance is so widespread that other opioids, such as heroin, have almost completely replaced the drug market. Only 13% of drug deaths recorded last year were unrelated to fentanyl, with 87% of overdose due to fentanyl or fentanyl in combination with other substances. In order to prevent overdose deaths, a successful prevention programme must be implemented elsewhere in the world, including the training of injecting drug users and the provision of naloxone, or a life-saving antidote, to them in a simple way. This year, Estonia is testing this programme. Question 6: What time do you think it will be possible to bring the number of drug deaths in Estonia to an average European level? On the implementation of the naloxone programme and as a result of more fentanyl seizures, it is possible that the number of drug deaths will decrease within a few years. However, it should not be forgotten that addiction is a chronic brain disease and that most drug addicts who have died of overdose have been injecters since their teens, so they have been injecting for many years. Even if we make it impossible to inject fentanyl because of the availability of fentanyl, the addiction will not improve. As addiction treatment is not always effective, prevention is the most effective in the long term.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U60	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Let's get to the questions. Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U61	Mr. Prime Minister! Unfortunately, we did not get very clear answers from you, as did the Minister of the Interior. You argued that the strategy has not failed, although the number of people who died has increased four times a year. How many times should the government admit that the strategy that has been in force for the last ten years has been wrong, and not put everything on fentanyl? Fentanyl has been on the Estonian market for ten years, but it has exploded in the last five to six years, and at that time this strategy has always been in force.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U62	I am asking back, although it is not polite: what elements of this strategy do you think have been wrong? What weren't we supposed to do? If you think about it, perhaps you will agree with me that all these goals have been correct, that they have produced results. If these objectives had not been taken into account, the results would have been even more depressing. All in all, to say that we didn't need a strategy, it didn't work, I think it's wrong. To have done more so that prevention should have been even wider, of course, I agree with that.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U63	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U64	Prime Minister! I come back to question 4, in which the sub-question actually did not provide an answer. As we know, crime statistics largely depend on what the police pay their attention to and do not pay their attention to. The fourth question also contained a question as to whether you consider the reduction in the number of drug offences to be a positive or a negative process. Does this point to a shift in the attention of the police, or do you think it is a basically positive process? At the same time, we know that the number of drug deaths has increased dramatically.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U65	The number of crimes per se may not speak very much. In response to Question 5, I mentioned that in 2012, the police detained 577 suspected drug-related suspects, which is 30 more than a year earlier. The parameters for assessing police action must be much more than one or two that we have dealt with here. Neither the number of drug crimes alone nor the number of persons detained in drug crime proceedings alone provide an adequate picture of the situation. There are problems, the problems are very big and certainly need to be resolved. The fact that we do not have comparable statistics so that we can compare European countries does not help to solve problems. The available statistical data are very different. In European countries, the number of drug deaths per 100000 or million inhabitants can vary by 100. A set of statistics trying to compare the number of drug deaths in the European Union countries also highlights that data are not actually comparable between countries. In the European Union, we have not been able to put drug-death statistics on a comparable basis across Member States. There is a problem for Estonia and more indicators are definitely needed to analyse the state of things in different regions of Estonia. And, of course, there is a need for more coordination of anti-drug cooperation at European Union level and globally.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U66	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U67	Prime Minister! When you answered the questions, you said that the inmates were guaranteed treatment, and that is probably the case. What about treatment options for those who have not been detained but who have a problem and are looking for a chance to receive treatment? Are there enough of these places? After all, there are people who are dangerous to society as a whole, both our own residents and our guests, because of this difficult problem, thefts and attacks. Do you think that treatment is also guaranteed for those who are not yet in detention because of a crime?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U68	Various treatment options and places have been created in Estonia and, unfortunately, there are not enough treatment places. However, the number of persons seeking treatment is very low compared to the number of known drug addicts. Once again, we are reaching the whole of society's approach to the issue of support for society's addictions should be much stronger than it is now.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U69	No further questions. Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? My colleague, Andres Anvelt, to the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U70	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I couldn't not come here to share a more pessimistic opinion with you than our esteemed Prime Minister did. I dare say that if we were talking, for example, about traffic or fire deaths, we would certainly not say that the ten-year strategy to reduce road or fire deaths has been successful if the number of deaths had increased from 50 to 150 in three or four years, for example. It is very simple: if the strategy is planned for ten years and half it is seen that it has not helped that the number of drug deaths is increasing, then the good master takes responsibility for the strategy and asks what is the problem, maybe we have to take a new path to solve this problem. Yes, as cruel as that may be, it can always be said that the same death of addicts at their own hands reduces the problem. That is a very cruel saying, and that is not the way we should ever think, because we must not forget that these are all young people. Young people who, according to researchers at the University of Tartu, could bring more than 650 million euros to the state budget as a generation, or rather increase their GDP by this amount. These are cruel numbers, too, but maybe pragmatic and make you think? If the strategy is not working, if the number of drug deaths has started to increase in the half-period, then one could admit that the plan has failed, a new path needs to be chosen. But we wait until the period ends, we let this number increase every year, and then we set up a government narcotics commission. The increase in drug deaths has not been a matter of last year. This is the cause of the serious headache in Estonian society over the last five to six years. Nor can it quite agree that it is difficult to assess police work on the basis of statistics. Yes, there are certainly many factors at stake here, but let us not forget that the same drug addict who buys a lethal dose buys it from a dealer who operates relatively freely on the street in our major cities in Estonia. I saw myself here on the slope of Toompea, the way a drug dealer acted during broad daylight. After calling 911, I waited there for half an hour before the patrol arrived. Well, what do you mean, how long does this drug deal last? Half an hour? Oh, no! A few minutes, five minutes, and some of them inject themselves immediately on site. These are the same future victims. What am I saying? The number of small quantities detected by the police has decreased over the last four to five years. This is certainly one of the proofs that it is not being dealt with in society; it is not considered a priority. Otherwise, the police would catch street dealers. Unfortunately, the police have to choose, with their budgetary possibilities, whether to catch a ten-pound amount and pay for its expertise, or to catch a gram of quantity and pay essentially for the same expertise. Of course, he needs to think prudently and choose a cheaper way. A few words about the cure. Five years ago, specialists knew very well that methadone treatment was out of date and might lead to even more destruction than non-treatment, because the amounts are essentially double. All this was known years ago when the strategy period was halfway through. Why wasn't a new direction taken when the Titanic course was essentially chosen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U71	Thank you very much, Mr Anvelt. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U72	The next item is the inquiry into the sponsoring agreements of Estonian Air submitted on 30 January by members of the Riigikogu Eldar Efendiev, Enn Eesmaa, Ester Tuiksoo, Kalev Kallo, Lauri Laas, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Peeter Võsa, Priit Toobali, Tarmo Tamme, Valeri Korbi, Viktor Vassilyev, Vladimir Velman and Yana Toomi (No 279). Please, colleague of the speaker's desk, Priit Toobali!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U73	Dear Chairman, Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, On 30 January this year, 13 members of the Central Party Group submitted an inquiry to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. This is the subject of Estonian Air's sponsoring agreements. Estonian Air owns 97,34% of Estonian Air's airline from spring 2012. Unfortunately, this company, which is called the national name, has been subject to constant failure, which is evident in large and consistent losses and the need for repeated state aid. On 31 October 2012, it was decided to terminate the employment relationship with Tero Taskila, the CEO of Estonian Air, on the grounds that the strategy of its choice did not work. Tero Taskila was also criticised for having been paid more than EUR 33000 per month throughout his term of office. However, Tero Taskila, which has already proved to be costly to the Estonian state at the time, seems to have caused costs for months after his resignation. On 22 November last year, an interview was published in the Estonian Päevaleht with Estonian Air's new leader, Jan Palmér, who indicated that difficulties had arisen to get rid of the sponsor agreement for the 2012 and 2013 World Ice Hockey Championship. There has been a public refusal to comment on the size of the sponsor agreement, but according to the press, it is close to EUR 1 million. Nor can it be overlooked that in spring 2012, Joakim Helenius, then president of Estonian Air's council, and Tero Taskila, CEO, announced that they would create a high-end ice hockey club in Estonia that would start competing in the Finnish league. On 30 January, together with 12 colleagues, I asked the Prime Minister a total of five questions, hopefully the Prime Minister will answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U74	Thank you very much, Mr Toobal. I would like to ask the Prime Minister once again to answer the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U75	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs, I'll answer your questions. The first question: 'What is the state of the negotiations to conclude the Estonian Air sponsor agreement for the Ice Hockey World Championship? ' Estonian Air informed the International Ice Hockey Federation that it wanted to withdraw from partner status and terminate the licence agreement before the deadline at the end of October last year. The negotiations are still underway. Both the early termination of the contract and the contractual penalty and the full coverage of the obligations by charter flights have been discussed. It should be pointed out that, according to the company's own explanations, this is not a sponsor contract, but an advertising agreement whereby the organisation that organises the World Cup shares the rights to display advertising. Advertising has been paid for both money and barter transactions. The second question: 'How much has Estonian Air spent to sponsor the hockey World Championship? " In 2012, Estonian Air spent nearly EUR 170000 on world championships, accounting for a third of the budget for foreign marketing activities. No expenditure has been made this year, but, as far as I know, this year's commitments amount to EUR 90000. I am mediating this information that has reached me from the board through the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. I don't have an independent knowledge of this thing, and I can't have it. As far as I know, this Ice Hockey World Championship Agreement has not been discussed at company board level and no decision has been taken either. The third question: 'How can interested parties get acquainted with this sponsor agreement? ' The license agreement with the International Ice Hockey Federation has been signed by AS Estonian Air. The written contract has also been archived at AS Estonian Air. Question 4: "Can you confirm that Joakim Helenius and Tero Taskila's plans to create their own hockey club have not been invested in Estonian Air's money through a sponsor agreement? 'Yeah, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has confirmed that to me. Question 5: Do you consider it reasonable that Estonian Air entered into a sponsor agreement for the World Ice Hockey Championship, while the average monthly loss of EUR 2 to EUR 2,5 million was made? " Don't think it's reasonable, especially when it's assessed afterwards. The status of the Helsinki World Championship partner was linked to the company's strategy to expand into the Finnish market. Although Finland achieved a significant increase in the number of passengers, the company's growth strategy has, as we know, failed and it is clear that many of the costs of implementing it could not have been incurred.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U76	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Let's get to the questions. Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U77	Good Prime Minister! Nor do the members of our group consider it reasonable that such a sponsorship or advertising agreement was concluded. You said that the Council was not aware of the conclusion of this agreement. Do you have any information that the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Parts was aware of the conclusion of this agreement? No doubt he did not have a role in signing the agreement or giving guidelines, but was he aware of it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U78	I don't even know how to speculate on this. I imagine that the majority of Estonian people learned about this via the media, but you need to ask a specific question to a particular minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U79	Please, Mr Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U80	Good Prime Minister! The State owns 39 companies. Do you think that the Prime Minister should be aware of all the agreements that have been concluded in these companies, or should this be known, in particular, by the shareholders' rights of ministers, councils and boards of directors?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U81	The more the Prime Minister knows, the better for the Prime Minister, and the better for the state, I believe that this is the case. But the Prime Minister certainly cannot be familiar with the specific contracts of all 39 companies or of all foundations. In this case, this is a very comprehensive agreement and I imagine that in a private equity company, the board of directors could not have taken advertising decisions, whereby a third of the funds earmarked for foreign markets are used to advertise its own company only in the organisation of one competition. In my view, this is obviously a disproportionate cost. I imagine that if the board of directors had discussed this, it would hardly have expressed its support for such a proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U82	Please, my colleague Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U83	Good Prime Minister! In this Chamber, we have held debates with the Minister for Economic Affairs on the responsibilities of the board and board of directors of Estonian Air, and the Minister for Economic Affairs has maintained that they, as shareholder representative, have not been able to identify decisions that would have caused economic damage to the company and where personal responsibility to the board of directors could be discussed. In your opinion, could the conclusion of such a sponsor agreement be considered as a reason for the application of personal responsibility?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U84	They claim that this is not a sponsor agreement. If a loss-making company were to engage in sponsorship, it would sound very strange. But also a company in temporary default must definitely be involved in advertising its flights, services and goods. Because if he gives up advertising, it means he swears down in a competition fight. The question is, in particular, whether or not this particular advertising agreement was proportionate in view of the economic situation of Estonian Air. In order to adequately answer this question, the matter should be examined in much more depth than I have been able to familiarise myself with this question in the context of the preparation of the answer. I don't know exactly how those EUR 170000 have been paid out. Perhaps this is some sort of barter transaction that has not led to any additional costs for the company. If I don't know these specific circumstances, I can't give you any presumption of finality. However, as I have already said, especially in the form of hindsight, it can be said that the agreement to promote Estonian Air brand in the Ice Hockey World Championship is disproportionate.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U85	Please, my colleague Urmas Klaas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U86	Prime Minister! It has appeared from your answers that the Estonian Air Council and the General Meeting should continue to examine this issue very thoroughly. But in the press, and also in our Chamber, there have been claims that state-owned companies do not even have to deal with marketing, to pay attention to the marketing budget for them, just as it is not appropriate and should contribute money elsewhere instead. How do you comment on this more broadly?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U87	Marketing activities are necessary for the majority of companies that need to market their production, services and goods. Without it, whether it is any form of ownership, whether it is a state-owned company or a private company, it is not possible to succeed under the conditions of the free market. There has been much debate about whether a monopoly company has to engage in sponsorship, marketing, advertising. This debate has been held several times in several countries and the single conclusion is: yes, even a monopoly company has to deal with public relations, regardless of whether the company belongs to the state or is based on private capital. In most cases, a monopoly must also reflect on its reputation and on its future. I can mention, for example, German public water supply companies, waste water treatment companies. All of them work with their clients, try to better inform customers, arrange customer days, share pens, candy or color pencils for children. No one thinks that introducing such a company is excessive luxury or redundant. If the same monopoly water company is faced with problems when major investments are needed to develop the company, then a normal consumer who knows nothing about the state of things may find it easy to think that we have managed to do without investment so far and that we will be able to continue to do so in the future. However, if there is a significant percentage of consumers who have visited the company's technological process during their spare time and are able to explain to others in a circle of friends or at a meeting of the building management company why an investment is essential and how it is beneficial for all parties involved, it is much easier to make an investment. If public relations is not carried out, if the monopoly company does not engage in marketing, it usually ends with some major conflicts. In the case of water companies, either the consumer suffers from a fall in water quality or some environmental pollution problems arise. So the rest of the world has repeatedly analysed whether or not a monopolistic company has to engage in marketing, and the answer is yes. However, the relatively far-reaching explanation of this question to me does not lead to the conclusion that I am entitled to Estonian Air's advertising contract with the organisers of the Ice Hockey World Championship. No, I won't justify it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U88	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U89	Prime Minister! It seems to me that we trust too little Estonian entrepreneurs and businessmen, who are also able to manage Estonian Air. When the company was run by Estonian businessmen, it went much better than today, when leaders have been brought from other countries. But my question is: why are there no performance fees for the managers of Estonian companies? The monthly salary could be much lower, but if the person actually does something and does something good for the Estonian company, then the performance fee could be paid. Why are no performance fees applied to company managers? Can you answer that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U90	I will also try to answer that question. But let it be said that Estonian Air has not been run by many Estonians. However, I admit that the time when Erki Urva was running it was indeed one of the best times for that company. I certainly do not consider it justified to pay the manager of such a small company a monthly salary of EUR 33000. That is completely disproportionate! I don't think that's justified in any way. Estonia also has some experience with paying performance fees in state-owned companies. Not all these experiences have been positive. In principle, if the head of the company is interested in a very high performance fee, he can make a profit in one year in the company quite large, get his performance fee, but at the same time the head of the company does not have any incentives to invest in the development of the company. I will come back to the same example of water supply once again. This is not an example of Estonia. If the driver's main objective is performance pay, profit, then in order to achieve this, the investments needed to improve infrastructure may be left in the background. In the case of Estonia, the award fund for the managers of state-owned companies is currently limited, and its limitation was due to the plentiful performance fee in Loto, Estonia, which did not meet the expectations of the people of its own time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U91	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U92	Prime Minister! You said that EUR 90000 more will be paid out this year on the basis of a sponsorship agreement. Do you know if it has already been paid or if it has not been paid? Perhaps it would have been more appropriate to pay the fine and not pay it $90,000?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U93	As far as I know, no payments have been made this year, which is EUR 90000 for Estonian Air. There are negotiations in progress so that Estonian Air can withdraw from this advertising contract. Under what conditions this could take place, it will be clear during the negotiations. Since Estonian Air is currently no longer carrying passengers from Finland to Estonia, there is no justification for such advertising. Estonian Air was very active in the Finnish market when the agreement was signed in due course. After all, the company's strategy was primarily based on the idea of bringing passengers from relatively small cities to Tallinn in Finland and thus increasing the number of passengers travelling through Tallinn to other European Union countries or beyond. In those circumstances, when this strategy was developed, it seemed to be a viable idea. Unfortunately, at the moment, I have to admit that it was unrealistic, but no one had a better strategy to offer. The development of the new strategy was still due to the economic difficulties of Estonian Air before the implementation of the strategy.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U94	Please, Mr Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U95	Prime Minister! I fully agree with you that every company, including the state company, needs marketing and public relations. Now, if you come to see Estonian Air, how would you judge Estonian Air in a ten-ball system? How have they dealt with public relations in order to be better understood by their clients, the general public? Is it very good or mediocre? Is there anything better we can do?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U96	I'm not the right person to judge. The company's business plan, the expansion plan has not been approved by the government, it has been approved by the company's board of directors. I repeat, no one offered a better plan. I'm afraid that plan didn't work. Our aviation problems are objectively present; they are also numerically measurable. Estonia is either in 33rd or 34th place in the global competitiveness ranking, but from the availability of air connections, I will say 112th place in 144 national comparisons. In other words, the availability of air connections is an objective problem for Estonia. We have to resolve this because aviation is not just any commercial activity in other business activities that can be dealt with, but if conditions are not favourable, then we do not have to do it. Aviation is of paramount importance to our country. It is important for our people to be able to travel to other cities in Europe and outside Europe in a very comfortable way. Our tourism sector is highly dependent on aviation activities. If we did not try to support our airlines, the whole tourism sector, the Estonian population as a whole, and investments would certainly be affected. In addition to the stability of the investment environment, the investor will also look at how he can access the investment environment, whether or not there are air links. Just as we support ferry connections to islands and rail connections to Viljandi I have said this before from this remote control, so we must also ensure air connections to important centres.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U97	Please, colleague Peter Võsa!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U98	Mr. Prime Minister! The introduction to the question is longer than the question itself. I know you as a straight-line, clear-eyed, clear-eyed man. I therefore expect a simple, clear and understandable answer to my question. And the question is, who is responsible?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U99	Whoever made the decision should be held accountable, but one might think that this person has already resigned with considerable compensation. Whether his responsibility could be criminal, I can't tell you that from the information I know right now. Once again, however, such an advertising agreement is completely disproportionate. I'm not an aviation specialist or an advertising specialist, but I would never have signed such a one-sided contract, used a third of all the amounts for external advertising in a competition for advertising a company. That doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U100	Please, colleague Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U101	Prime Minister! It is a pity that the role and responsibility of the members of the council has not been agreed in the re-independence Estonian state over the years in such a way that it is also clear to the public: who has done something wrong must be responsible for it. A year ago, both Helenius and Taskila talked about a competitive hockey club that will play in the Finnish league. I think it's a little utopia and a joke. But today in the committee, as a result of a letter from the President-in-Office of the Riigikogu, we needed to start drafting a report on the subject of members of the Board of State Enterprises. How do you think it should be regulated?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U102	I'll come back to the beginning of your question. In this context, it is not the Council to point the finger at. As far as I know, the Council has not discussed this advertising agreement, much less approved. The Council's role is non-existent. If the question was about whether or not the members of the Riigikogu should be represented on the boards of companies, then my position is known to you from ancient times. I support the participation of members of the Riigikogu in company councils. As you yourself know, the members of the Riigikogu have mostly voted against very high wages in company councils. These have been people who perceive responsibility towards voters, and they have strived for rational corporate governance. If there is uncertainty about something, for example, who appoints members of the Riigikogu to the councils, it must be removed. Indeed, it is not compatible with the Constitution when a representative of the executive power is appointed by a representative of the legislative power. However, to argue that it is not appropriate for a person who has obtained a public mandate to represent the interests of the State in a state-owned company is, in my view, completely unfounded. Rather, the question is something else, and it has also been brought to my attention by Erkki Raasuke, whom I consider to be a considerable authority on this matter. Rather, it may be asked on what basis these other persons have been appointed to represent the State on the boards of state-owned companies. In these cases, there are no common selection criteria, neither the mandate of the people nor anything else can anyone point out.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U103	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U104	Good Prime Minister! I am not a member of the board of companies of any country, and I therefore dare to continue this conversation, which has become a bit wider than the hockey MM. There are currently seven planes operating in Estonian Air: four Bombardiers and three Embraers. One Boeing is just standing on the field, and a new CEO said it's cheaper to pay a lease than to fly it. What's the point of having a company like this anyway? A good shareholder would've taken care of it a long time ago, sold it, given it away, I don't know anything. But right now, they're only letting some gastronomists pirate for a lot of money. If we wanted to support hockey, which is an excellent goal, then perhaps this hockey would be supported directly, but would still disband the company and decide who is responsible for what is happening to Estonian Air.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U105	If Estonian Air has made management mistakes and I admit that they have clearly been made, this does not mean that the whole aviation sector is of little importance to Estonia, that its airline is irrelevant to Estonia. I talked long enough about why it is important for a country like Estonia to have its own airline company. It is not just a question of a company and whether or not it supports hockey, they love hockey there or not. The issue is the travel possibilities of Estonian residents, the development of our tourism sector. It is a question of investments that either come to Estonia or do not come. The concept of an open sky in Europe is a good concept, but it does not suit all Member States in the same way. For those who remain away from the core of Europe, on the outskirts, the model that is currently in use has brought a great deal of problems. Estonia is not the only country in which aviation is wrestling with great difficulty. When we look at our neighbors, we see that they have a lot of problems too. The European Commission has also initiated proceedings against Latvians, Lithuanians are without their national aviation company, SAS received State support from both the Swedish State and the Danish State, Malév is bankrupt in Hungary, LOT is facing obvious difficulties in Poland. Many airlines, especially in the outlying countries of the European Union, are currently facing very difficult challenges. Aeronautics became particularly difficult during the global financial crisis, as passengers became much more modest. In the aviation sector, the decline in passenger numbers, especially in peripheral areas, caused much more damage than in other economies on average. It would be an easy solution to say that we are no longer dealing with this matter, and let the investors and tourists and the residents of Estonia see how they can. I think that neither the Riigikogu nor the government should follow such a simple course of resistance.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U106	Please, my colleague, Siim Kabrits!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U107	Prime Minister! You said that Estonian Air shouldn't support hockey. But what should the other state company in Tallinn do, whether or not it can support sport?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U108	A profit-making company can, in my opinion, support sport and culture, even it should be part of marketing activities. The loss company must certainly engage in advertising. In the case of Estonian Air, the question is whether the advertising channel in question is justified and effective. In retrospect, we know that it certainly has not been effective. In general, however, monopoly companies and state-owned companies will certainly have to deal with public relations and marketing; sponsorship is also an integral part of this. The Port of Tallinn is the largest dividend income budgeting company of companies belonging to the Estonian state, apart from Eesti Energia, from which we receive dividends, but where we have invested taxpayers' money back. Therefore, in my opinion, the marketing activities, the public relations activities of a profitable company, are justified. This is the way these companies are viewed all over the world.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U109	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U110	Mr Prime Minister! Right now, it's not just a lazy person talking about Estonian Air and the company's work. In this context, I have a question for you: when is it planned to allocate another amount from the state budget to Estonian Air so that the Executive Director can sign the sponsor agreement?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U111	I believe that right now, Estonian Air does not have the kind of leadership that would be willing to sponsor. Something is also learned from mistakes made. I hope these lessons have already been learned.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U112	No further questions. Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U113	Dear Chairman, Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, A few ideas to close this issue, although the next question will be about Estonian Air and certainly more widely. I thank the Prime Minister for giving a very clear assessment of the sponsoring or advertising agreement that Estonian Air has signed to support hockey. We, too, believe that this is clearly unjustified and disproportionate, even though the amount put into play is EUR 260000, which is in the old currency of just over 4 million kroons, and does not play a very large part in the company's total loss. At the same time, it clearly shows how the company is treated in terms of financial matters to be discussed and decided by the board. The monthly salary of EUR 33000 paid to Tero Taskila for quite a long time will be remembered. Undoubtedly, we are addressing Estonian Air to get this contract. It contains precise amounts and precise tasks, and it will be clear whether this is an advertising contract, as the Prime Minister was told at the Ministry of Economic Affairs. I believe that the Estonian public has the right to demand that this agreement be made public and that all its contents be known. Finally, a brief recommendation to the Prime Minister concerning the coalition partner. Minister of the Interior Vaher got his head kicked by giving up Kama's position as head of the PBGB. I suggest you do the same with Minister Parts. It's time to put on the heads of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications so he doesn't do any more stupid things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U114	No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U115	We will go to the next inquiry by members of the Riigikogu Andres Anvelt, Heljo Pikhof, Helmen Kütt, Indrek Saar, Jaak Allik, Jaan Õunapuu, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Kajar Lember, Kalev Kotkas, Kalvi Kõütli, Karel Rüütli, Mart Meri, Neeme Suur, Rannar Vassiliev, Rein Randver and Sven Mikser on 31st January. a. The subject of the inquiry is the prudent management of the shares owned by AS Estonian Air. Please, colleague Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U116	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, On the last day of January, 16 members of the Social Democratic Party submitted an inquiry to the Prime Minister regarding the prudent management of shares owned by the State of AS Estonian Air. It has to be said that developments in the company's performance have been very diverse and rapidly changed. However, I regret to say that the procedure for answering questions does not allow for quick answers to urgent questions. In 2011 and 2012, the Government of the Republic allocated a total of EUR 30 million to implement the company's new strategy, which provided for the renewal of the fleet, extension of the range of destinations and the strengthening of the timetable. Now we know that this strategy has failed. Despite everything, the airline has been loss-making since 2006 and the losses have increased significantly in recent years. The losses in 2011 were EUR 17,3 million and in the first nine months of last year the losses exceeded EUR 20 million. Losses certainly increased in the last months of last year. According to the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, Erkki Raasukes, the airline needs up to EUR 70 million, depending on the amount of fines it is possible to return to the yard aircraft that has proved to be unnecessary and the state of the recapitalisation. Much has been said about how the fleet has been modernised over the last few years, how contracts have been concluded, how aircraft have not been bought out. I'm sure it's a stone on this company right now, too. On 13 December last year, the government decided to grant the company a loan of EUR 8.3 million from the property reform reserve fund for a period of six months at a 15% interest rate. Minister Parts explained at the time that the decision to borrow money was due to the European Union's state aid rules. The Minister argued that the company would continue to have money until the beginning of March in order to meet all financial obligations towards creditors. We're running out of time in a few weeks. It is known that only recently the government decided to grant Estonian Air another loan in order to improve the economic situation of the company. The answers to the seven questions that we have put to the Prime Minister should, in our view, also clarify whether the government sees the blame for the airline in a difficult financial situation or whether all responsibility falls to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. We want to know if the company's loss has been a part of the company's management in recent years. In the event of malicious damage to the company, we would like to know whether the members of the supervisory board must bear their personal responsibility in accordance with the Commercial Code in force in the Republic of Estonia. Thank you. We look forward to the Prime Minister's constructive answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U117	Thank you very much, Mr Jaan Apple Tree. Once again, Prime Minister, I would like to ask for the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U118	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! Good heirs, I'll answer your questions. The first question: 'You have provided conflicting information with the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications about the operational plans of AS Estonian Air. Which one of you is misleading the public? Is the government's activities in managing state-owned shares purposeful, meaningful and purposeful? " The heirs refer to my words in the January 16 Question Time and to what Juhan Parts said two days later. I can confirm once again that on 16 January, the Government did not have the Estonian Air restructuring plan, the so-called Plan A. I also believe that the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications was also precise in his statements, confirming that the Ministry was working on an alternative plan, the so-called Plan B. So it is not worth looking here for any contradiction or for misleading the public. The Cabinet discussed the proposals of the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications on the future of AS Estonian Air and Estonian air connections on 31 January and 14 February. In the case of decisions to ensure air connections, the government has considered alternatives. This consideration has been substantive. The restructuring of Estonian Air was decided following an analysis of the various options and cooperation negotiations with other airlines. The second question: 'Do you, as the head of government, also see the entire government's guilt in the airline's difficult economic situation, or does the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts have all the responsibility? 'The State Assets Act, which provides for the special nature of the management of state companies compared to ordinary companies, entitles the Government of the Republic to take some decisions that are normally within the competence of the general meeting. For example, a government mandate is needed to change the size of the company's share capital, to transform, divide or terminate the company. The Government has given the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications the power to change the size of Estonian Air's share capital. In the past, the State, together with other shareholders, has invested additional capital in the airline. Estonian Air, like other companies, has been strategically and operationally managed by the board of directors and the board of directors. As a shareholder, the State has not prescribed how to run an aviation business, draw up flight plans, choose destinations or aircraft. As a shareholder, the state's condition for adding capital has been that the company would be profitable as a result of the restructuring. As the financial results of AS Estonian Air show in recent years, this has not been successful. It is true that, in the face of similar problems, as I have already pointed out in reply to the previous question, aviation companies in many European countries are. Question 3: "Did the company's management play a role in its losses in recent years? If so, which one? ' The company's results are formed by a combination of management decisions, employee input and external factors. Estonian Air's financial results last year were expected to be the worst in history and the reasons for this must certainly be critically assessed. The growth strategy launched last April and the transit passenger transport model have not justified themselves as well, from a financial point of view, as originally planned. The number of passengers increased according to the plan, but ticket revenues were lower and operating costs increased. In order to avoid further losses, it was decided to close Estonian Air's activities and return to a model focusing exclusively on servicing lines with stable base demand. A rapid reduction in the capacity of operations may entail high costs for the company in connection with contracts for the use of aircraft before the expiry of the deadline. This is also the case with Estonian Air. In addition to one-off costs, it should be noted that the company's daily activities are currently loss-making. Question 4: "Do you not think that this was a malicious act of harm to the company, in relation to which members of the board of directors must bear their personal responsibility under the Commercial Code? " As far as I am concerned, there is no reason for Estonian Air to talk about abuse or any other cause for claims against members of the management. Estonian Air's previous business plan failed on commercial grounds, not on account of maliciousness or abuse. Question 5: "What is the government's plan to ensure that the air connections that are important to Estonia are maintained? Does the national airline play a continuing role in this? ' The government decided to lend Estonian Air a total of 24.9 million euros to AS at the end of last year and this year to ensure air connections with key hubs for Estonia. This amount consists of EUR 8,3 and EUR 16,6 million. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications has also submitted to the European Commission an application for authorisation to grant rescue aid to AS Estonian Air. The final and sustainable restructuring plan of AS Estonian Air is expected by the Government from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications at the latest. A plan A must therefore be completed by 18 April. Question 6: "What effect does Estonian Air's poor economic situation have on Tallinn Airport, where the company's regular services account for more than 40%? " After restructuring, the number of Estonian Air's passengers will probably be lower than last year, when it was nearly 890000 at a record rate. However, the number of passengers should remain in the same order of magnitude as in previous years. In 2010, Estonian Air, for example, flew 582000 passengers. While last year the number of passengers at Tallinn Airport was also a record of 2.2 million passengers, this year the number of passengers has been conservatively forecasted by the airport at 1.8 million. This is a change that Tallinn Airport can handle. Question 7: 'In the middle of January, you argued that there was no proper plan to persuade the European Commission, AS Estonian Air, to save. Is it finished for today? ' As I said earlier, the government expects the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications to complete the restructuring plan by 18 April. A peak saturated power output greater than 20 W (47 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 2,7 GHz up to and including 3,7 GHz; This plan must convince the customers of the European Commission, Estonian Air and also the taxpayer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U119	Thank you very much. Any questions for the Prime Minister? Please, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U120	Thank you, good manager. Prime Minister! I come back to the state property law that you referred to, where the sovereign of state property has been placed under an obligation to manage the property placed at its disposal in a prudent, sustainable, rational manner, etc. I also asked the Minister for Economic Affairs in briefing a few weeks ago, and it is in this context that he, as a general meeting, senses that he has held this property prudently. Do you think this has been done in the interests of the Estonian state?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U121	It would be easy and good to run a country if such a question could always be answered yes or no. It would be very easy to respond if state-owned companies were to make significant profits. It would then always be possible to say that the state's assets have been handled very prudently, that the management has done its job very well and that the Council has performed its tasks perfectly. But there are risks in business and the weight of the risks in the aviation business has been very high. These risks have led to the bankruptcy and liquidation of certain airlines. For certain companies, I would say that a large proportion of European aviation companies have risked very low profits or mostly even losses in times of crisis. Few airlines have been able to operate profitably throughout the crisis. There is a philosophical question as to whether all those airlines that have been loss-making in Europe during the crisis have been mismanaged and whether their Soviet members should be punished in criminal proceedings. I don't think that's an acceptable approach. The liability of the company's supervisory board is also laid down by law in Estonia. Where a person in the company's board of directors, by wrong decisions or omissions, causes damage to a company, such misconduct or omission shall be punishable. However, the business risk as a whole is not something that could be fully anticipated. In the event of a coincidence in certain circumstances, this risk is virtually inevitable for the majority of companies during a certain period. But when we come back to Estonian Air, there is once again the question of the proportion of circumstances and mismanagement that are beyond our control. Of course, this proportion has to be determined.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U122	Thank you. Please, Rein Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U123	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! A thought or a message has come from the Commissioner for Competition in Brussels that the state of Estonia or the Government of the Republic has gone too fast and supported Estonian Air. Could this have a slight impact on the way State aid is decided? The second question is how far we have come in the state aid negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U124	Thank you. So far, no black and white yes-no answers have come from the European Commission. The argument that help has been rushed too quickly is not very appropriate in my view, because we did not have very many choices. In essence, the choice was very clear: either rapid assistance or bankruptcy of the company. In the opinion of the members of the Government of the Republic, the company's bankruptcy is not acceptable to Estonia. The direct and indirect consequences of this would be much worse, according to me and other members of the government, than the burden on the taxpayer as a result of supporting the company.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U125	Thank you. Please, Siim Kabrits!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U126	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! Has it been analysed at all how much money the State has put into Estonian Air in the four years that it has been a majority shareholder? How many passengers have been, what has been the cost of one passenger, how many of the passengers have been tourists, and in what amount has every tourist brought money to Estonia? If you sum up these amounts, what has been the impact of Estonian Air on the Estonian tourism sector?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U127	Such analyses have been carried out, but I am not able to refer to any specific analysis. These analyses vary in scope, one with more assessment, the other with less but so much with more accounting analysis. It is not possible to carry out a comprehensive, proper analysis to explain ex post who was a tourist and who travelled for commercial purposes. It is now impossible to identify, but such assessments have been made. These estimates mostly indicate that the absence of an airline company would be more detrimental to the Estonian state than the financial support of this company. Of course, however, the granting of State aid to companies in the European Union is strictly regulated. Knowing that we have reason to support our airlines financially, we still need to follow the European Union's state aid rules. But the knowledge we have of the aviation market so far clearly speaks of the fact that bailing out a company is cheaper for the taxpayer than letting it go bankrupt.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U128	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U129	Prime Minister! Will you rule out a situation where, let us say, on 18 or 20 April, the Estonian Air Board will come to the Prime Minister and say that they will not have enough of this EUR 30 million and they will need more money?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U130	I guess every day brings more knowledge. This was only the case when the board of directors of the company considered that the rescue of Estonian Air would require EUR 50 to 70 million. Now things have progressed, and this amount has become almost half as small. The change in the amounts is not due to the fact that, at the time, it was not properly foreseen how much aid would be needed, but also to a reduction in the amount of aid as a result of the effective operation of the current company's supervisory board and board of directors. These risks, which were foreseen when the amount needed for a possible rescue of the company was called EUR 50-70 million, could not be realised by the company's managers. The amount needed to save the company is lower than currently estimated, largely estimated by those same persons a few months ago.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U131	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Let's open the negotiations. Please, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U132	Madam President! Prime Minister! Colleagues! Yes, as I referred to in my questioning, urgent questions are not quickly answered. But that's the way it is. That is why the Prime Minister also made a reference to the possible amount that Estonian Air needs. In our inquiry, we said that we needed up to EUR 70 million, but indeed the company's management has declared that almost half the amount needed is less. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board, Erkki Raasuke, claimed only a few weeks ago that half of this last EUR 16 million loan, i.e. EUR 8 million, would be needed to terminate the contracts, certainly not to return unnecessary aircraft before the deadline. I understand perfectly that there are difficult times in aviation, especially for small companies located on the outskirts of Europe. But I am also sure that the more we should consider how to develop our airline. I think Mr Palmér has said very well that there are a lot of historic baggage in Estonian Air that will have to be removed in the coming months. You can totally agree with that, that is certainly the case. It is not known to anyone that Estonian Air will lose more than two million euros each month. The sums allocated to the company over the last two or three years have been very large. The headlines of the newspapers indicate that over the last three years a billion Estonian kroons have been introduced into the company. I agree with the Prime Minister that it's easier to keep your airlines. It will be cheaper for the taxpayer than to sink the company and, in a few years' time, to rebuild everything from scratch. I liked the opinion of Erik Sakkov, an airport management board member published at the end of last month when he compared aviation to a box factory. He said that a misconception was born about adapting the caste factory's logic to the ax method, as if a weak or non-existent Estonian airline would somehow attract competitors to Tallinn. The foreign airline is only interested in the destination if there is a strong domestic carrier with a considerable network that does not duplicate but complements its network. As Sakkov mentioned in his article, the problems of the Estonian airline have not attracted any airlines to Tallinn yet, but due to the difficulties of the Estonian airline, the paper wolf contracts went to six companies who were planning to fly here precisely because they had the hope of connecting their network with the Estonian Air line network. I think it all makes us think that Estonia needs its own airlines. I know a little more about the company's day-to-day activities and internal life than anyone else. Therefore, I dare say that the developments in recent months, which have taken place under the leadership of Mr Raasuke and Mr Palmer, give me hope that this will also happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U133	Thank you very much. Any more calls? There are no more requests, I will conclude the negotiations and also the debate on this point.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U134	Let's go to the next question. Members of the Riigikogu Enn Eesmaa, Kalev Kallo, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Peeter Võsa, Valeri Korb, Viktor Vassilyev and Vladimir Velman submitted an inquiry to the Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas, on 23 January 2013. I ask Viktor Vassilyev to speak on behalf of the heirs!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U135	Madam President! Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, In Estonia, hospitals have only been closed in the last ten years. However, in June last year, a new and fully modern health care facility was opened in Tallinn. Since I have seen such facilities everywhere in the world, I can assure you that this is indeed a modern clinic and meets all the criteria. So it's a proper maintenance clinic. But the problem is that the nursing clinic has not received the necessary funding. In fact, when the clinic was completed, there were 150 beds with a cost of EUR 4.6 million. EUR 3.1 million was borrowed from the European Regional Development Fund. When the aid was received, the European Union, at the level of the Government of the Republic, was promised that the clinic would receive funding for its activities. The current situation is that 53% of beds are financed. The question is whether people in the order of treatment can be deceived or whether the European Union can be deceived and how this aid will be returned if it is called for, or whatever happens. This inquiry was submitted in January. It's March now, and a little bit of progress has been made. When we submitted an inquiry, it was known that in the first quarter of this year the Health Insurance Fund financed 56 beds at Haaberst Medical Clinic. Things have changed a little so far, and until the end of the year 83 seats will be financed, or 53% of all places. The rest of the seats are unfunded. So our questions to the Minister of Social Affairs have remained the same. When will the rest of the beds be covered by the health insurance contract? To what extent is the Haaberst care clinic to be financed after the first quarter of this year? Will the clinic receive additional funding, or will it remain so that only 53% of the places will be financed? If, with the approval of the national institutions, new care clinics are being built, how can it be understood that, with the approval of the same institutions, their future activities will not be financed? If the Health Insurance Fund does not sign a contract, how will the Government of the Republic make up for the expenses incurred? We are waiting for answers to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U136	Thank you very much. I'm asking for Secretary of State for Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U137	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Good heirs! I will answer questions from seven members of the Riigikogu on financing for care care care. I will answer the first two questions together: '2013. In the first quarter of 2008, the Health Insurance Fund finances 56 beds of Haabersti care clinic. Is and when will the remaining 94 beds be covered by the health insurance contract? The Government of the Republic has promised funding from the Health Insurance Fund to the Haaberst Care Clinic. To what extent is the Haaberst care clinic to be financed after the first quarter of 2013? " Before going to the answers, I will mention two things. First of all, these are very good questions, and they are very important to me personally too, because a significant part of my first working day, which was last December, was precisely the opening of this clinic. Moreover, for nearly 30 years, I too have been accustomed to seeing a doctor in the house where Õismägi was before and in the next house, where there is a family doctor's centre. Before going to the answers, I would point out that AS Lääne-Tallinna Keskhaigla, applying for the euro funding for this clinic, made a forecast that the funding of the Estonian Health Insurance Fund would amount to 56% of the clinic's revenues, 29% of the local government funding and 15% of the patients' own contribution. So much for the background. Let's go to the answers. The order for 2013 scheduled by the Health Insurance Fund and negotiated with the management of the Lääne-Tallinn Central Hospital of AS is 1352 treatment cases for a total of 1.186 million euros. In the case of 85% of bed occupancy, this is estimated to mean that the fund of the Health Insurance Fund covers 100 beds out of 150 beds. However, this does not mean that the other 50 beds should remain empty. This leaves the hospital with the possibility to provide care to the residents of the region, using about 20 beds. It also allows Tallinn to transfer care treatment for uninsured people from depressed surfaces to modern conditions, using about 25 beds. The services ordered by the Health Insurance Fund are in line with the volume of the hospital's own application for EU support, which I talked about before answering questions. The third question: 'If, with the approval of the national institutions, new care clinics are being built, how can it be understood that, with the approval of the same institutions, their future activities will not be financed? 'The clinic was built not only with the approval of the State but with the direct financial support of the State. The modern Haaberst care clinic is built with state support from European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) funds. To this end, EUR 3.36 million was allocated. In order to improve care care, the state also makes a large contribution to the construction of the health insurance fund, which does not mean that the municipality should not finance the care treatment. The development plan of the Estonian care network for the years 2004 to 2015 does not provide for full funding for the health fund, but for other sources, including the contribution of local governments and the own contribution of the users of services, if possible. Question 4: 'If the Health Insurance Fund does not sign a contract, how will the Government of the Republic make up for the expenses incurred? ' Increased funding for care treatment has been one of the priorities of the Health Insurance Fund's budget. This is illustrated by the fact that the financing of care in the budget of the Health Insurance Fund increased by 100%, i.e. double, between 2005 and 2011, while the funding of specialist medical care increased by 65%, which is not in itself a small percentage of growth. I was talking about the 2005-2011 period. This trend has not changed in 2012 and 2013, and more so, the trend is to increase the financing of care facilities to a greater extent. At the same time, in order to put things in context, it should be stressed that there are probably no counties in Estonia where, in recent times, a new care department would not have been completed, built or immediately completed, or any such department would not have been renovated. The number of care treatment places in Estonia has been very high in recent years. Nursing care is a new name for care treatment when Parliament approves the bill submitted by the government and health care providers applying for support for the construction of the welfare infrastructure have provided in the application their forecasts for funding from the health insurance fund. In addition to funding from the Health Insurance Fund, which formed the main part of the forecasts of the applicants for support, most hospitals also forecast paid services, revenues from other institutions and private individuals, as well as financing from local authorities in different volumes. As stated at the beginning, AS Lääne-Tallinna Keskhaigla forecasted European investments by 56% of the Health Insurance Fund funding, 29% of the local government funding and 15% of the patients' own contribution. Until now, Tallinn has not considered it necessary to finance care care, even though I am aware that proposals have been made repeatedly in the City Council. Fortunately, there are also other examples in Estonia. We take the next city in terms of population and see that Tartu finances stationary care treatment from its budget at the University of Tartu Hospital, but this is provided that patients are exempt from own participation and the institution develops the service and improves its quality. The sums used to finance care treatment in Tartu are not small. That, of course, is to be welcomed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U138	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U139	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I asked how many beds were funded, but you answered me with a bunch of different numbers. Significant figures were, of course, 56%, 29% and 15%. This concerns the financing of a single bed. We're gonna talk a little bit about different things. Of course, 56% is paid by the Health Insurance Fund, 15% is a person's liability and 29% is currently bought by the City from the Haaberst care clinic, because the patients are relocated from several departments. Let the proportions be 56:29:15. However, the health insurance fund currently finances 83 beds, but it should finance 150 beds. When will he start financing 150 places?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U140	Thank you. 56%, 29%, 15%, this is unfortunately not a reality, but it was a forecast by the mother organisation of the West-Tallinn Central Hospital, Haaberst Care Clinic, when applying for European funds. The reality is that the percentage of the health insurance fund's participation is quite similar to the forecast, but the percentage of the municipality's participation is much lower than forecast. This makes the clinic's situation more difficult because when planning its activities, the clinic considered that in addition to the health insurance fund, money comes from the city. This money, at least to the extent that it was predicted when it came to European Union money, has not come to the disadvantage.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U141	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U142	Thank you. It was unclear when 150 beds would be financed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U143	Thank you. If you'd listened to the answer, it would have been clear. As I said at the beginning, the financing of nursing clinics is not entirely based on the funding of the Health Insurance Fund. Both the clinics themselves and the development plan of the field provide that part of the beds are financed by the municipality. The municipality is therefore able to direct people to services. This is an important additional opportunity for the municipality. Thanks to the European Union's investment, the services are offered in Õismäe, Tallinn, in very good conditions on the way to the Builders. I fully agree with Mr Viktor Vassilyev's assessment that these are entirely state-of-the-art and very good conditions. It is not, I think, delighted not only by Õismäe, but also by the inhabitants of Mustamäe, Kristiine and other surrounding regions. So you shouldn't expect a nursing hospital, department or clinic to be funded only by a health insurance fund. Rather, in my opinion, if the funding from the Health Insurance Fund is in line with the clinic's forecasts, the question must be asked as to whether other parts of the forecast will follow. I'd love for you to come.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U144	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U145	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I'm confused, and I want to ask that there is no more confusion. Was there a contract or a reference document with which the parties entered into commitments to a certain percentage? Or is there such a prognosis as you say that the hospital presented its vision that it would be good to be financed in such parts? Please specify!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U146	Thank you. That is a legitimate question. As far as I know, West Tallinn Central Hospital, which belongs to Tallinn in terms of ownership, has provided forecasts. It is difficult for me to say whether these forecasts were confirmed only on the hospital board, on the board of directors or at an even higher level. In order to make sure that the City Government of Tallinn has made some binding commitments, I should specify that. However, good practice in financing nursing care, with a new name, requires local authorities to contribute to it in addition to the health insurance fund. For example, Räpina Hospital, which is, geographically, the most remote nursing hospital from West Tallinn Central Hospital, is a part of the patients' own contribution to financing. This is the custom everywhere in Estonia. I come back to the example of Tartu. Tartu allocated more than 267000 euros in 2012 to support care treatment, which is a significant contribution. It mainly finances care facilities for older people in its city. I think this is a very significant and positive step. Fortunately, there are still municipalities that support this area, thus actually supporting not only the hospital but also their residents.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U147	Thank you. Please, Urmas Glass!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U148	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, As a patriot in South-East Estonia, I think it is very good and commendable that the Ministry of Social Affairs has prepared and brokered such a measure to improve our nursing care base. Indeed, Räpina Hospital was the first to open a new corps thanks to the great support of the Ministry, the Põlva Hospital has therefore been able to develop a great deal, as well as the hospital in Võru, etc. But I know that when hospitals planned these projects, it was calculated very precisely how much money comes from the sickness fund, how much from the municipality and how much is involved. Otherwise, the funding would not have come from the Ministry either. Was Haabersti different?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U149	Thank you. No, as far as I know, it wasn't any different. I once again offer my sincere congratulations to all the local governments. This support, which goes into nursing care, goes not only to the hospital but also to the people of the region. Such appropriations in the municipal budget are certainly what local people are pleased about.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U150	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. Any requests? No calls, no negotiations. This item has been exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U151	The next question is an inquiry by the members of the Riigikogu Heimar Leng, Marika Tuus-Laul, Mikhail Stalnukhin and Valeri Korb to the Social Minister Taavi Rõivas on 14 February 2013 about the reform of hospitals in south-eastern Estonia. The chair is coming from Heimar Lenk.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U152	President-in-Office of the Council. Indeed, an inquiry was made to the Minister for Social Affairs. In recent months, since the end of last year, there have been rumors in South-East Estonia that three major county hospitals in Põlva Hospital, South Estonia Hospital in Võru County and Valga Hospital are facing changes, they are being reorganized. In fact, the aim is to launch an old reform of Estonian hospitals, which has already started and has been abandoned several times, and as a result of which the status of these three beautiful, nice and very well-functioning hospitals should fall from county hospital level to hospital level with county responsibility. They used to call it a local hospital, and now they've come up with a new name, but it's basically a local hospital level. Simply put, in these hospitals, medical services would be reduced, surgery and maternity departments would be shut down, as was the case in Rapla. It's a shame to look at it, because Põlva Hospital and Valga Hospital, for example, have very good maternity departments, and they also go to other countries to give birth to their babies. We could talk about this for a long time. We have made an inquiry in order to get a clear picture of whether there is now fear of changing the status of these hospitals. We have nine questions, and we also have statistics that have recently appeared in the media on how many patients there are in these hospitals. For example, there are 40,000 in Võrumaa, etc. It is particularly worrying that people now have to go to Tartu or Tallinn to get better treatment, which is quite difficult, given the cost of bus tickets from Põlva, Võru and Valga to Tartu or Tallinn, for example. So we ask the Minister to answer and tell us whether these fears can be removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U153	Thank you. I'm asking for Secretary of State for Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U154	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am responding to the four Members' inquiry into the future of hospitals in South-East Estonia. Question 1: "Is it true that the Ministry of Social Affairs is planning to reduce the status of a number of hospitals in the near future? What are these hospitals, and do they include the three current county hospitals in Southeast Estonia? " I start by saying that health is a very emotional area where there is often no idea where great fears arise. I'm glad I'm able to take down these fears about South-East Estonia. The aim of the Ministry of Social Affairs is to ensure access to high quality health care, patient safety and the sustainability of the hospital network. For the integrity of the healthcare system, it is particularly important to note the increase in the role of primary health care and the link between the hospital network and the development of primary health care as an important area of health care. The development vision of health care services and the hospital network has been drawn up on the basis of the views of medical practitioners in the updated development plans, the recommendations of experts and the population health development plan for the years 2009 to 2020. The aim is to agree on minimum requirements for access to healthcare for specialised medical care based on the size and location of the county. It is not only the type of hospital that should be considered, but also the size of the service areas, the specifics of the specialist medical care professions and the available human resources. So lowering the status from a general hospital to a local hospital is definitely not an end in itself. On the contrary, if the residents of the county and the local people at all in the case of South Estonia Hospital, in certain cases the service area exceeds the county borders, it is precisely in these hospitals that the ministry or the central government have no reason to make decisions that are contrary to the will of local people. I am also concerned about the trend that people use healthcare services in larger centres rather than in local general hospitals. This does not contribute to the sustainability of these general hospitals or local hospitals (only one local hospital in Jõgeva is in the development plan). That is why I stress that the decision of which specialized doctors, with which frequency, whether only on working days or 24 hours and all days of the week, working in one hospital or another, is made mainly by the local people, the county people. They do so when they decide to go to their county hospital or somewhere else for outpatient or inpatient treatment. The second question: "Are these hospitals afraid of reducing the number of on-call doctors around the clock? " The short answer is that you don't have to be afraid. By analysing the work of the emergency department in general hospitals in counties with up to 40,000 inhabitants, we can highlight the number of surgical and emergency visits and the trend in the number of inescapable inpatients during the last ten years. The analysis shows that the average number of visits to the emergency department within one day is less than 15 in the hospitals in South-East Estonia and that the number of calls requiring operational intervention during the extra-work period has not changed during the years. Indeed, according to specialists, the number of people in need of emergency assistance is too low to ensure the presence of support services outside of work objectively. In addition to objective criteria, there are, of course, other criteria. As I said, health is a very emotional area for many people. Due to the objective of more efficient use of resources and patient risk minimisation, specialists have recommended the organisation and transport of several hospital emergency services to major hospitals, where they are provided with the help of modern therapies, along with diagnostic and other support. However, I am of the opinion that the only solution to these problems or, let us say, trends is certainly not to restrict services or reduce the time to provide services. A number of specific issues would be solved in South-East Estonia if hospitals were to cooperate even more closely with the regional hospital. In my opinion, cooperation with the University of Tartu Hospital would also help to ensure access to high quality health care in the counties of South-East Estonia. The third question: 'How is the ambulance reform planned in South-East Estonia? " Let's do a little detour, then there'll be more questions about hospitals, but now we're talking about emergency medical reform. The purpose of the restructuring of ambulances is to create more ambulance brigades across Estonia. In the background, the idea here is that we want to ensure that everywhere, wherever a person lives or needs help at the moment, the ambulance reaches him at a steady speed. To this end, we have planned new ambulance brigades, including some relocations. For example, the number of ambulance bases, i.e. the locations where ambulance brigades are located across Estonia, will increase from 54 to 60, i.e. the dispersion will be more than 10% higher. Thus, the availability and quality of ambulance services will improve in South Estonia. Between 2014 and 2018, the number of ambulance crews in these three counties (called the Southern Service Area in emergency management) is planned to be increased by a total of three. Thus, in the future, there would be 12 brigades in three counties instead of the current nine, or a whole third more than so far. In addition, the plan is to move the two brigades near Meegomäe, currently located near the South Estonia Hospital, closer to the towns of Võru, possibly in need. All these reorganisations will significantly improve the availability of ambulance services in these counties, as the ambulance will arrive more quickly, and the quality of the service will also improve. Of course, it is important to stress that, in order for all additional brigades to receive funding, additional resources must be requested from the state budget, apart from increasing the regions and other steps. On the basis of the possibilities of the state budget, we can then say specifically what year the additional brigades will come to one county or another, one location or another. The Health Board has an initial preference in which order and counties it is most urgent to include brigades. For example, Järva County is certainly among the first to come here, as the entire county is currently only covered by two brigades. We would like to add a third one as soon as possible. However, the availability of ambulance services in Võrumaa, Valgamaa and Põlva County is also improving wetly. Now we come back to the hospitals. Question No. 4 reads: "Is there a plan to close the maternity and surgery departments in hospitals? ' The Ministry of Social Affairs does not intend to close the maternity department in Valga, Põlva or Võru. This decision can be made by the families of the regions themselves, who are directing the hospital with their choices. Internships have shown that the maternity department decides to close hospitals when more than half of the county's women decide to give birth elsewhere. The truth is that Põlva Hospital and South-Estonian Hospital are geographically very close to each other. They both have to work hard to gain the trust of women in their county. In Põlva County, 59% of women in the county give birth. In 2011, there were a total of 320 births, 69 aliens. Valgamaa figures are a little more worrying, as only 52% of Valgamaa women choose Valga Hospital as their birthplace. There were 313 births in 2011, with a total of 123 aliens, which is very understandable because Valgas is doing his job in close proximity to the border. As has been said, the Ministry has no interest in closing the maternity department in any county. The safety of patients, which is achieved by quality care, is important to us. We must, of course, bear in mind the professional motivation of staff. The specialist gynecologists say that there should be at least 500 births a year, or more than one birth a day, to keep the maternity department working successfully. Trends in South-East Estonia are a cause for concern, but before we draw very large conclusions, I would certainly expect personally 25 October when the directive on the free movement of patients comes into force. Several health professionals have predicted that this will lead to an increase in the number of births from Latvia in the hospitals of South-East and South-East Estonia. This will certainly contribute to the sustainability of these maternity units. I personally am not in favour of hasty decisions in this area. There's a problem because there's less birth than there used to be. But as I said, there is more than one solution. It certainly does not happen that there is no more chance of giving birth in Southeast Estonia. If these trends are to become very negative in some hospitals, it will increase the number of deliveries in other county hospitals. I am extremely sceptical about the opinion that there will be no more births in South-East Estonia. I mentioned that Võru and Põlva are very close together, but if you look at Tartu, it is not conceivable that the closest birthplace for Mõniste is in Tartu. Therefore, regardless of how the number of deliveries changes, the need to maintain obstetrics in South-East Estonia is very clear. In addition to specific figures, other indicators need to be monitored here. Question 5: 'Do you not think that after the reforms a long journey to hospitals in Tartu, Viljandi or Tallinn will be necessary for patients in south-eastern Estonia? This is an exhausting and costly undertaking for the patient. Why is this fact not taken into account in the implementation of the reform? ' Doesn't seem and counts, is the quick answer. The hospital network must, of course, take into account the opportunities of the state on the one hand and the needs of the people on the other.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U155	Mr Minister, I have a suggestion: maybe you can explain the rest of the issues in the course of answering questions; now is the time. Let's get to the questions. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U156	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! I am asking this question because, if you wish, it would be possible to answer those questions of inquiry which you have not been able to answer because of a lack of time. My modest question is as follows. You said the maternity department wouldn't be closed if 50% of the local birthers wanted to use it. Who determines who wants to give birth in a county hospital and who doesn't?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U157	Thank you. It's up to the family to decide where to give birth. I didn't mean that when that magical 50% limit arrives, when more than half of women give birth in hospitals outside one county or another, someone's hairy hand automatically comes and shuts down the maternity department. No, it's not. I was talking about the practice of other counties, what steps have been taken. This decision is made by hospital executives, taking into account people's opinions. But thank you for the opportunity to answer the sixth question of inquiry. I assure you that the fear that many patients will have to embark on long journeys to a doctor is in vain. The availability of outpatient services will certainly be ensured in the counties at least at current levels, the availability of emergency services will improve and emergency care will remain around the clock in all hospitals in the county centres. A family doctor and a family nurse also provide the necessary and more frequent medical care. This is illustrated by the continued increase in family doctors' visits. In answering the eighth question, like the questioners, I would like to congratulate the good health professionals of all these hospitals and once again to confirm that decisions on restructuring can be made primarily by the hospitals themselves. The Ministry has no intention of shutting down any hospital maternity department by force. The ninth question concerns whether I am not afraid of the sudden rise in unemployment in South-East Estonia. We are talking about a shortage of labour in health care. The additional ambulance brigades also represent a total of dozens of additional jobs in these counties, which are also health care jobs. Rather, the problem is how to find employees for these jobs. I certainly do not think that unemployment will increase in any way as a result of the health sector. Hospitals are and will remain important employers in the region.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U158	Thank you. Next question, Meelis Mälberg.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U159	Thank you. Dear Minister, These hospitals in Põlva, Võru and Valga are not the only hospitals in Southeast Estonia. With the support of local authorities, hospitals also operate in Räpina, Otepää and Tõrva. They have developed into significant local centres providing health care services. How do you think these hospitals have managed and what role could they play in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U160	Thank you. Speaking of these hospitals, I've been to Räpina Hospital with you. What I saw there made an extremely positive impression. Räpina Hospital has found its niche very clearly. There is a clear demand for the services provided there in another hospital in the county, with this demand growing across society. Räpina Hospital is largely a nursing hospital and does not provide a very wide range of active treatments. It is quite clear that Räpina Hospital has a very clear place in the Estonian health network as it does. Let's check out the other hospitals. Remember when a hospital in Võrumaa, for example, was built, and what were the goals and needs then. Anyone who has at least passed this hospital knows how big this building is. But everyone who's been in there lately also knows that this hospital is basically from the basement to the attic, full of services from the floor to the floor. There are no empty floors in South Estonia Hospital. A very small part of this hospital, maybe half the floor on the nine floors, is one that can still be expanded. All other rooms are quite modern and very well renovated, given their overall possibilities. From the sale of the CO2 quota, the energy efficiency of the house has been increased. Let's look at Raplat, which is located in another corner of Estonia, where various services have been tightened up over time, based on changes in demand. In his county hospital, less than 50% of Rapla county women were born, and the maternity department was shut down there a long time ago. At the same time, there is an extended offer of nursing care, for which demand in Rapla County is increasing. As a result, the hospital is sustainable and I think it is a very good job. Such examples could be cited endlessly across Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U161	Thank you. Please, Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U162	Did I get you right, Minister, that Valga, Võru and Põlva hospitals have a very big future and no one will change their status in the coming years?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U163	Thank you. It is a little difficult for me alone to say whether the status of one hospital or another will persist or whether it will change in a few years' time, because this decision can still be made mostly by those who hold the hospital. I recently went to South-Estonian Hospital near Võru. My gut tells me that we are hearing some very positive news from there, not at all in the tone you're asking, but on the contrary. There are many people in South Estonia who want health care there to come with time and demand. This may mean, in certain nuances, a change in the choice of specializations in a few years' time or in whatever perspective. I can't rule it out. It is decided, as I said before, mainly the county residents, by choosing which services they wish to use in the hospital. But in my opinion, all three hospitals are necessary to serve people in other counties in their own county and certain services. The future prosperity of these hospitals, or whatever the word sounded, will determine how well these hospitals are able to keep up with the wishes of the patients.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U164	Thank you. Please, Urmas Glass!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U165	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Your message is very clear: the quality of the treatment must definitely come first. When people receive high quality medical care, they therefore trust these hospitals, and hospitals therefore do not have to fear for their future. Indeed, the people of South-East Estonia (especially I can talk about Põlva) trust their hospital very much. Obstetrics in Põlva Hospital and the accompanying surgery and anesthesiology are very highly valued and of high quality. Thank you very much for your confidence! From the time I was a governor, I remember that I had to spend the doors to prove to Jaak Aab and Peter Laasik, for example, the well-being of these hospitals. But please say a few words about the ambulance reform. There have been alarming reports in the press that the contest failed in Põlva.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U166	Thank you. The southern service area, which includes the three counties that we have in focus today, was strangely the only one in which no such offer was made that one service provider would have covered all three counties. At the same time, nothing scary happens because offers were made separately, by county. Since the Minister is not a member of the competition committee, I do not yet have a complete overview of whether the offers submitted to the competition qualified or when these decisions will be taken, but there is no doubt that all counties in Southeast Estonia will be covered by the ambulance service. We have until the beginning of next year to conclude the contracts. I believe that, in people's opinion, it is not so important whether there will be a single service provider or three providers in the future, but whether the brigades will be more and these brigades will be closer to people.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U167	Please, Rein Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U168	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Do you agree with me that the organisation of health care is a whole, and that the ambulance reform and the development plan for the hospital network are all links to this whole? It should be added that we also have a relatively large number of problems with the organisation of primary health care, i.e. family doctors, which are currently being vigorously organised by the Health Board, or with the organisation of specialist medical services throughout Estonia. You mentioned the provision of services outside the county borders. We know that hospitals have longer queues. Why can't we work with other European countries, such as the Helsinki region in Northern Estonia and Latvia in South Estonia or in the south-eastern region with third countries as well? These are questions that all want to be resolved. You said the central government wouldn't make a hospital network development plan. But the Minister's regulations allow all of this to be regulated by setting minimum and maximum requirements and regulations also through the sickness fund, the head of which you are.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U169	Question! Time's up.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U170	Thank you. Yes, of course, it is also possible to manage Estonian health care in such a way that crosses are made on the map in Tallinn, where there is one thing and where there is another thing. You can also take Excel next to the table and see how many people are in exactly one county or another. We also have very accurate information about how many outpatient or inpatient treatment cases there are in one county or another. We know all that. However, life is not just about Excel's tables and drawing a map. I believe that before making fundamental changes, we need to communicate with local people and hospital staff. If there is both the resources available on the ground for the provision of services and the demand for these services, no minister should start losing these services by force. But I do very much believe in cooperation. I believe that if these hospitals feel that one or another type of treatment is less needed on the ground, then cooperation with larger hospitals may be the solution. It is necessary to clarify how often there is demand for one profession or another on the ground and then agree with a larger hospital to ensure that this service is provided. There are examples like this all over Estonia, but I would very much like to see a further step forward here. This would actually be a substantive hospital reform as a quality leap. This would ensure both the quality of treatment and the prestige of the hospital, for example, in the eyes of young doctors. After all, we have a great deal of concern that young doctors do not always find confidence to go to a county hospital. I'd rather try to work that way. Local people could also be sure that quality health care is provided at the county centre.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U171	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U172	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you for your confidence. I understand the Ministry has no intention of interfering with the activities or status of county hospitals. I think the key to the success of hospitals in Southeast Estonia is actually specialization. If they can specialize and be strong in some area, they will last. I can tell you that the key to the success of Põlva Hospital is definitely the maternity department. It's been that way all along, and it's probably in the future. But I don't share your sadness that only 59% of local women are born in Põlva Hospital. I'm saying that the fact that only 41% of births are born outside the county shows the strength of the hospital and its maternity department. More and more people come here to give birth from outside the European Union. For example, last year an estimated EUR 70000 was added to Põlva to support this hospital. Do you think that the future trend of these hospitals could be that they are selling medical treatment outside the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U173	Thank you. I'm sure it is. I believe that Estonian health care is competitive in terms of quality and price and that it will be possible to attract patients from both the north and the south if the directive on the free movement of patients enters into force from 25 October. We can still and will be able to talk about this directive in this Chamber. I also believe that Põlva Hospital offers high-quality services. But the professional concern that 320 births a year may not be enough for this department to be sustainable can't really be ignored. I'm not going to be the one who says the maternity department shouldn't be there. Absolutely not! But it is not worth ignoring that concern. If we manage to keep this department for local people because of the further increase in the number of patients coming from Russia and Latvia, then the better for the whole county. Then there is no such problem as many specialists stress that the nearest second maternity hospital is only 24 kilometres away. But I am an optimist in the fact that Estonian health services, including obstetrics, can also be offered across borders. It is the most genuine export of high value added, high quality service.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U174	Please, Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U175	Thank you. Good minister! It was kind of nostalgic to hear the expression 'hospital prosperity'. It reminded me of my distant youth. You said the local residents would decide what kind of medical care they want from the hospital. Apparently, then, the residents decided that they wanted an ambulance without a doctor and no health care personnel at all, because this agreement was not signed. By the way, the young doctors mentioned here did not sign this agreement. Does the prosperity of our health care mean that hospitals in Southeast Estonia become health centres? Does the prosperity of our health care mean that only Finns can get dental care in Estonia for money from the Health Insurance Fund? Is this the prosperity of our hospitals, or is it somewhere beyond the horizon, as they said 30 years ago? Where's the bloom?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U176	Thank you. Using the word 'blessing', I tried to use the word used by my colleague, Heimar Lenk. I'm sorry if that word wasn't exactly the same, but the thought, I believe, overlapd with Heimar Leng's. Estonian health care has been beaten very much. It is very easy to write an article, take one case out of hundreds of thousands and describe only one view of the matter, i.e. the patient's view. If a patient has been dissatisfied for some reason, we may never know whether this dissatisfaction was justified (of course it may have been so) or whether it was completely unsubstantiated. Doctors and nurses often do not have the opportunity to defend themselves because they cannot publicly comment on sensitive personal data in the newspaper. They cannot tell people what diagnosis was actually made, what steps were taken, because all of this is related to a person's privacy. People can talk about it themselves, they can talk about it in a biased way if they want to, but the health sector often cannot defend itself. Nevertheless, the quality of health care services is currently at the highest level for Estonian people in the last five years. Instead of seeing Estonian health care in black colours, we should thank the people who do this work day after day and be proud of the fact that Estonia has top health care. Yes, of course health care needs extra money. But show me one area in Estonia's life that doesn't need any extra money! It is, of course, my business as Minister of Social Affairs to stand up for finding this money in health care. Ambulance reform is one of the steps to ensure better access and quality of service, but it also requires some additional money. We still have steps like this. I call on you to be more positive and to say good words to doctors, nurses and carers. It is not necessary to talk only about the fact that everything is bad in Estonian health care. Far from it! Very many things are good in Estonian health care. For this, the people who work in this area must be recognised.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U177	Thank you very much. No further questions for the rapporteur. Now I call on Heimar Leng to speak on behalf of the interviewers. I'm opening negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U178	Thank you. How much time do I have, five minutes?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U179	Five plus three.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U180	Thank you for the floor. The Minister's speech was a very good experience; it enriched my impressions of this Chamber as an MEP. Once again, I made sure that you could put a person in any position, that a financial person could get a health care professional and send a health care professional to run a garbage company. We still have people in charge of garbage companies. When I get together with a press lecturer, I suggest that the minister take today's performance on DVD and show the students as a classic masterpiece of orator art, a high-pitalization. I could give the same speech if I was sent to the anniversary party of the Estonian Theatre or Conservatory and told me to do a proper performance there. I can go in the same way and say, "Dear folks, the music world is very emotional. We have such great musicians that they want to serve you better and better and better. But if you, my dears, don't go listen to them, then nothing will come of the concerts. " If women don't give birth in Rapla, the hospital will be shut down. The minister forgot, however, that women were on the streets of Rapla with slogans, children in their arms, asking them not to be deprived of the possibility of giving birth. He didn't talk about it. He told me how great the hospital got after that. Someone in this hall gave nice examples of Tõrva and Räpina Hospital. Tõrva Hospital, Mr. Minister, was the first to be shut down because of the stupid Master Plan of the Swedes, I think. I was also a member of the Riigikogu at the time. The hospital was shut down under our eyes. Only because the minister was Jaak Aab and we organized large gatherings (also as a result of my personal work), we reopened Tõrva Hospital. Unfortunately, yes, it's a nursing hospital right now. There is no point in congratulating us here that there are wonderful stories about health care in South Estonia. Today's presentation of the Minister made it clear to me that all these doubts about the future of hospitals, which are up in the media in South-East Estonia, and the fears of local government leaders are justified. They're more accurate than I could have imagined. The Minister spoke a lot about how wonderful the people of Estonia are, how they love Estonian doctors, how clean our hospitals are and how good our health care is. Studies will be carried out to explain how satisfied people are with health care. These studies are funded by the Health Insurance Fund and the questions are formulated in such a way that we cannot answer differently than we have the best healthcare in the world. At the same time, we hear from day to day that Estonia's health care awaits bankruptcy. We put financial people in charge of the Health Insurance Fund so that, for God's sake, there are no experts in running this thing, we can use this cashier as part of the Treasury, and so on. I'm leaving this hall with a message that everything's going exactly as it's feared. This isn't the first time. In 2002, the situation was the same when the Master Plan was launched. Knee Hospital was in danger of closing down, in fact, of lowering the status. Thanks to two men, Jaan Laul and Heiki Männik, who collected 7492 signatures at Põlva stores against lowering hospital status, this hospital remained a county hospital, even though it was intended to be converted into a local hospital with Jõgeva Hospital. Fortunately, our minister came to the aid, and Mrs Oviir also helped to do this. Now, as I understand it, this decision, which was to come by 1 April, will be postponed, after the local elections. As I understand it, on October 25th, a study will be published. I didn't understand what research, you didn't exactly say. Or was it a directive or something? Then it is said that our dear women will not give birth in the country anymore, you see, people want to visit a doctor in Tallinn, not in Põlva. And we're gonna do it. In short, everything, the picture is clear and more than before. Thank you for your good performance, Minister. I will try to take this DVD to the students of the journalism field at Tallinn University. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U181	Thank you. Speaking chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U182	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Believe me, Leng and I haven't consulted in the meantime. Just because we have exactly the same thoughts, it just means that it's all transparent and understandable to everyone. First of all, I must say that I am trying to be an optimist, as the Minister suggested. This is where I came in to give him credit. We do not know what kind of Minister for Social Affairs he will be, this assessment can be made in a year or two, but that he is a fantastic speaker, I can tell you right now. A few years ago, I taught political science to college students, with practical political science. We studied different styles of speech, looked at which principles are the basis of each style and how they should be used to benefit. Mr. Minister is still a very young person, he must have been born with a talent for speech. What we heard is called a hypnotic speech in scientific literature. This hypnosis was the same type as when you borrowed money from somewhere, signed a loan agreement, you read everything that's in large print, but you don't read the two or three lines that are well printed in small letters somewhere at the bottom of the last page. Only afterwards will it be that these were the most important things. What we heard here was just a masterpiece. I began to dream when I listened to this long and fluently presented plan for the development of ambulance brigades. It was like a song, kind of beautiful, beautiful, hypnotizing, but at the end they said, "If there's extra funding." We are perfectly aware of the situation of both the sickness fund and the state budget. We know that, for many years now, no money will be available for social goals anywhere. You can't even agree with the doctors. We heard that the quality of service does not deteriorate, but that the Tõnn-tõnn goes on nicely, everything is nice and beautiful when working with the University of Tartu Hospital. Obviously, then it won't get worse, of course. People will simply visit a clinic in Tartu. There are known what kind of service, there are better financing, there are attraction centres, there are more qualified doctors who have not all escaped abroad yet. We heard the Department doesn't shut down the maternity department, women do it themselves. I asked you about 50%. There was no answer again. So what Heimar was talking about here is already done. Even before you, my colleague, came here to talk, I've already taken notes. With regard to the paramedics and what it all ends with, I'm gonna take out the verbatim tomorrow and put my lectures in the archives. If there is ever a need to read practical political science to anyone else, it is a practical example of one type of speech. What else can I finally say? It was a masterpiece! Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U183	Thank you very much. I will give the floor to the Minister for his address. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U184	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! Despite your seemingly compliments and perhaps both sincere in doing so, I became sad when I listened to you. I was under the impression that if Heimar Lenk went to South Estonia, to his constituency, he would preach there, so he almost promised that something terrible was about to happen in Southeast Estonia health care. I assure you from this speaker's office as a minister that this is not true. If you say so on the ground, it is on your conscience. You know that the Minister has assured you in the Riigikogu speaking board (where it is possible to extract the verbatim) that nothing like this will happen. So once again, if you choose a tactic to scare people in Võru, Põlva and Valgamaa on behalf of your election, knowing that your claims are not true, you will not behave dignifiedly with these people. You should treat the people in your constituency in such a way that you tell them the truth and use all your information. There was a question which, more specifically, would enter into force on 25 October. This is a directive on the free movement of patients, which means that a Latvian or Finnish patient can come to Estonia, receive treatment here, and for this treatment the health insurance fund of his country is obliged to pay for it, either according to the Estonian price list, if the prices in Estonia are lower than in Finland, for example, or at least at the rate that is the price of providing the corresponding service in that country. In Latvia, for example, the price of some services is cheaper. I believe that this will allow the export of Estonian health care to be expanded, because the quality of Estonian health care is competitive both in Finland and Latvia. As far as the ambulance crews are concerned, I will specify so much that there will certainly be more ambulance brigades in 2014 than this year. I don't have the authority to tell you how much more today. Since we do not know exactly yet, it would be a little premature to say that there are additional brigades in Põlva, Valga and Võrumaa as early as 1 January 2014. But the fact is, these brigades are coming, they're coming as soon as possible. As early as 2014, given the current budgetary possibilities of the Ministry of Social Affairs, it is possible to increase the number of brigades across Estonia. Finally, speaking of hospitals in the county centre, for the sake of the report, it is said that now the correct term for hospital status is 'general hospital', all of these hospitals are in general hospital status, and their cooperation with the regional hospital, the University of Tartu Hospital, I did not mean that this cooperation would start to look like all patients are going to the University Hospital of Tartu. That was your kind of satirical remark. On the contrary, my goal is that, in cooperation with the clinic, it is possible to ensure specialist doctors' visits on the ground, to serve patients in Põlva, near Võru and also in Valga. Like I said, that's the goal. Cooperation has worked very well in many parts of Estonia and it is certainly worth deepening. Once again: I have a sincere request, use the information you receive from ministers in the format of your enquiries, and do not spread fear in vain. Time will tell, but these fears will be overturned, they will not be confirmed in practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U185	Would you like some extra time?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U186	No. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U187	Thank you. There are no more requests for speech, I will close the negotiations, and I will close the debate on this point as well.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U188	Members of the Riigikogu Eldar Efendiev, Mailis Reps, Marika Tuus-Laul, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Peeter Võsa, Tarmo Tamm, Valeri Korb, Viktor Vassilyev, Vladimir Velman and Yana Toom submitted an inquiry into the salaries of police officers to the Minister of Internal Affairs Ken-Marti Vaher on 21 January 2013. I ask Mikhail Stalnukhin to speak on behalf of the heirs!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U189	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, These members of the Riigikogu submitted an inquiry to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher, regarding the salaries of police workers. For a moment, I will change the subject and say that voters do not need to be intimidated in municipal elections, because the Government of the Republic has already frightened them so much that one in three is considering leaving the country. But now to the question. The introduction states that at the end of November last year, the Press Service of the Ministry of the Interior announced that an additional EUR 6.8 million would be allocated to the police and border guard staff in 2013. This measure had to raise the salaries of police and border guards by 9.6%. A total of 4400 employees were expected to receive a wage increase. Now the salaries have already been paid in January and even February. Consequently, we have some questions for the Minister. They are concrete and short, but I ask that it be easier for viewers and listeners to understand what we are talking about to be read by the Minister himself. But here's what I'm trying to say. We can see what happens to wages in other countries, we can look both east and west. The wages of British police officers are far from the highest in the European Union, however, the constable, who is just starting his service, will receive £24,000 a year working in the province, but if he starts his service in London, he will receive £29,000. This makes about €2,200 per month working in the province and €2,700 per month working in London. The next grade is a sergeant with a salary of GBP 35000 or EUR 40,000 a year. The experienced inspector has a monthly salary of EUR 4000.4500, or EUR 50000 per year. It may seem that this is only the case in developed countries, only in the West, but if you look eastwards, you will see that the senior lieutenant in the Russian Federation police (I look more or less at the same grades) who have worked for five years and more, currently earns 49000 roubles, or more than 1200 euros, with 13% income tax there. So he gets more than a specialist at this level is paid in Estonia. If you look at officers with a position similar to that of the prefecture's chief, for example, the head of the district's Home Affairs Department has a salary of 74000 roubles at a level above EUR 1800. The wages of our police officers and, unfortunately, the employees of the Rescue Board are quite poor. It shouldn't be like that. Our destiny and sometimes our life depend on these people. In this regard, we ask the Minister to answer the four questions raised in the inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U190	Thank you. I'm asking for Ken-Marti Vaheri, Minister of the Interior of the Speaking Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U191	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Dear heirs, thank you for your inquiry. The four questions concern wage increases in different categories of workers, how many employees have received wage increases, what is the minimum wage and what are the plans for the next few years for increasing the salaries of the employees of the PBGB. Here's what I'm gonna say. Estonia is almost the only Member State of the European Union in 2013 where public sector wages are rising in this volume. This also concerns internal security. While, on average, public sector wage budgets increased by 4.3%, the police payroll increased by 6% as a whole. However, the increase in the minimum wage for police officers is considerably higher. The additional money allowed us to significantly increase the salaries of those who are at the lowest in the grade list. The minimum wage rose by 9.6% in the PBGB, with around 3000 employees in the PBGB. In total, the wage increase affected 4500 people, four fifths, or 80% of the PPA officials, which means that some 3700 police officers and 800 staff members had an increase. In particular, as I said, the salaries of police officers with lower salaries and high-risk jobs, i.e. the salaries of patrol and regional police officers and traffic police officers, as well as the salaries of border guards, police mentors and special forces personnel, rose. For example, the wages of regional policemen increased on average by 14%. So far, their average wage in gross income was 797 euros, with an average of 919 euros this year. Those regional police officers who still earned less than Estonia's average salary in 2012, i.e. less than 855 euros, had an increase of at least 7%. The highest wage increases were paid to workers in the border guard area, where 90% of the workers received wage supplements. You also wanted to receive wage data in absolute terms compared to last January's wage data. Since the desired wage comparison would be affected by the holiday pay paid to the staff member, the bonuses paid for holidays and night work, and changes in duties which all affect the remuneration paid to the staff member during comparable months, it would be reasonable, for reasons of objectivity, to make a comparison with employees in the service on the basis of the average wage fixed. As of December 2012, the average salary of the employees employed by the PBGB was EUR 923, while as of January 2013 this amount was EUR 999. The change is 76 euros, or around 8.2%. There is so much to add here that among the police officers, the lowest salary was EUR 695 per gunner. The average salary of police officers at the beginning of this year is 1052 euros, and the average salary of staff is 867 euros. I will add to this the last part of your question concerning the plans. It is quite clear that our aim is to pay all policemen competitive wages. We could do that if our country were much richer. To the extent possible, we have created prerequisites for motivating police officers. Of course, my goal as a minister is to continue to make sure that the money from tax revenues is reflected in police officers' bank accounts. Human assets are one of the most important priorities of the Ministry of the Interior. It's important to improve people's motivation. Of course, additional money will also allow good staff to be found for vacant posts. I hope that our economic situation and the proceeds of tax revenue, which at the beginning of this year has been significantly better than our neighbourhood and other Member States of the European Union, will be this way in the years to come. We hope that the salary increase will also include the 2014 budget. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U192	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U193	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I have only recently learned that the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has ever adopted a declaration entitled 'Declaration of the Police'. I can't translate better, maybe in the right translation it would sound a little different. However, such a document exists and lays down quite a number of rules that the Council of Europe believes should be mandatory for everyone. Among other things, there are some wage rules. Have we joined this declaration?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U194	Thank you for your question. I will be happy to answer that when I get more detailed information from you on which document you are referring. You compared Estonia and Great Britain. We can certainly compare Estonia with many countries. Estonia is very different from Britain. Britain was not occupied in the 20th century for 50 years, and Britain did not start building its internal security structures and power departments from virtually zero in 1991. It is certainly a much more prosperous country, which can afford much more than a small country like Estonia, which has quite recently been freed. I think it is relatively appropriate to compare us with the other Eastern and Central European countries. We must always take the example of the developed European countries we are moving towards. But when we talk about public spending, one of the pillars of our country's coalition and its government coalition is the demand for the balance of the state budget. We can spend just how much revenue we have. In 2013, we have more revenue that we can spend than we have so far, so it was possible to ensure wage increases in the public sector from 1 January 2013. As I described, there will be considerable opportunities in the field of internal security in 2013. Let us hope that we can move forward from here in the next few years.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U195	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U196	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I have more of a structural question. On the one hand, there was an additional amount of the payroll. In some ways, however, the payroll generates primary savings from the fact that quite a number of seats have not been filled. On the other hand, if there are redundancies and dismissals, it is understandable that compensation must be paid. But if we look at the percentage of the payroll, it's not a small amount. Here's the question: do you have plans on how to use this savings? Is this a reserve, or is this money also earmarked for wage increases?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U197	Thank you for your question. The extra money has gone into wage increases and, I would stress that, for the first time in 2013, it was possible to implement it in a joint institution called the Police and Border Guard Board. We have, I think, talked about this in this Chamber as well, but we have certainly talked about the fact that the institutions that joined the Police and Border Guard Board in 2010 brought with them different pay systems. Different systems have meant that similar positions have had different salaries. This year's wage reform has meant harmonising the pay system. The additional money for wage increases and wage reform will amount to nearly EUR 7 million this year. In total, the salary fund of the Police and Border Guard Board is 95 million euros this year, i.e. approximately one-and-a-half billion Estonian kroons in old money. This year, as I said, the aim has been mainly to harmonise wage systems and raise wages. The way in which the amounts are more precisely distributed into the budget of the Police and Border Guard Board is to be decided by the management of the PBGB. However, the additional money of EUR 7 million has been earmarked precisely for 80% of the employees of the PBGB to receive a wage increase. If you ask why 80%, it is precisely because we cannot talk about wage increases until wage systems are harmonised, or there has been no wage reform. It's a burden from history to today. I would have been very pleased if harmonisation had taken place three years ago, when the Commonwealth was set up. Unfortunately, Estonia's economic situation did not then allow such harmonisation. People came to the compound facility with their current salary. The Estonian state now has more opportunities, first the wage reform was carried out and wages were harmonised. This meant an increase in wages in lower-paid positions. In addition, we were able to raise wages in at least four fifths of employees. Who didn't get paid? For example, the salary did not increase with the management of the PBGB. Wages did not increase in a large number of management positions, in positions with relatively comparable wage levels in relation to the median. We are talking about the median of the Estonian labour market as compared to the wage average of the public sector.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U198	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U199	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. The 6% wage increase is quite decent if we do not consider that we have the highest inflation rate in the European Union. I think the real pay increase for police officers will be within 2% to 3%, which is probably very small. I am asking you directly how many of our policemen in the European Union are paid. How many countries are behind us?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U200	Thank you for your question. I do not have the data on which place Estonia is located in this ranking. It is not easy to get this data because there is a question that we compare. Are we comparing the average wages for internal security? It is an average salary, let us not forget. If we start comparing average wages, there will always be very serious risks because we can compare incomparable ones. There are different institutions in the countries. As you know, in our country there is the Police and Border Guard Board, which includes the police's law enforcement side, the criminal police, the border guard, and citizenship and migration. In some other countries there are separate institutions for these four functions. We need to extract the data from all these authorities. Sorry, we are not taking them out, but we must ask our partners for this information! This comparison with the statistics that are presented to us is quite difficult to make. The definitions must be exactly the same, etc. I owe you today an answer as to whether such a ranking exists. If there is one, I'd be happy to provide you with this information, but unfortunately I don't have one answer. I understood that the question was about other countries in Central and Eastern Europe (we can also call them countries that joined the European Union at the same time as Estonia) and their salary data. I'd be happy to get that data. It was by no means easy to obtain the information I provided to you that Estonia was almost the only Member State of the European Union where the salaries of police officers increased to this extent. Quite a number of requests have not been answered to this day. This is the kind of cooperation between countries. But on the basis of the responses of the vast majority of countries, I can say that there are very few countries with such wage increases, as we have done in Estonia in the public sector and in domestic security. Very many countries are talking about freezing wages. There are some countries where wage increases are, in a certain form, guaranteed by law. Estonia is one of these countries, by the way. In Estonia, wage increases are included in the Police and Border Guard Act and take place on the way to a higher level of service. Every three years, the levels of service of individuals are reviewed and when a person is moved up the ladder for perfect service, there is financial compensation. Thus, we can say that Estonia is among the countries in which the law has such opportunities. I think it's one of the extra guarantees in the police service.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U201	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U202	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Lately, I've had a lot to talk to police officers. After these meetings, I have a small question. Is it true that additional payments disappeared with the salary increase?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U203	Thank you for your question. I didn't quite understand your wording, but I'm trying to figure it out. You are probably referring to the fact that, so far, while police officers' salaries accounted for a large part of the extra costs and had a lower basic post-graduation salary, the wage reform has considerably increased the proportion of basic post-graduation salary and reduced salaries. However, when we talk about wage increases, we are still talking about wage increases, which are measurable by the net income that comes from bank accounts. Yes, the answer to your question is that the proportion of premiums has indeed been reduced, which is reasonable. This is the purpose of the whole of the new Civil Service Act, which will enter into force on 1 April, and of the organisation of the civil service wage systems. That's exactly what the police have done this year. As a result, the share of basic salary has increased and the share of premiums has decreased. At the same time, there are amendments to the Police and Border Guard Act before Parliament, which aim to maintain the possibility of differentiation in the police services. This means that we will not follow the 17th grade in the grade list in the future, but we will also be able to provide for additional qualifications within the scale. The pay systems of police authorities are quite complex, and their organisation takes time. We just need to take this time to harmonise the system. We are, yes, seeking to maintain this differential, but in the long term, the aim is in any case to simplify and organise wage systems and certainly to make the bulk of the person's income a basic salary.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U204	Thank you. No further questions for the rapporteur. I ask Mikhail Stalnukhin to speak on behalf of the speakers of the chair! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U205	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I didn't doubt that if anyone was responsible for our police officers having low wages, it would, of course, be Soviet power. I don't really love this power either, but frankly, I'm starting to think there's something mysterious about it, something mysterious about it, because it's to blame for any trouble that's come up in this country in the last twenty years, any mistake that's become systemic in the last few years. Strange, but that's the way it is. One more point. Valeri referred to certain information that the kikekie and the salary were raised, but the bonuses were taken off and in fact nothing changed much, given inflation, the purchasing power is negative anyway. We should check this out. Another marginal note. I will certainly pass on this police declaration to the Minister. If the Home Office doesn't know what we're talking about, I'm gonna find that declaration. This should be accompanied by a code of conduct for officials made at the United Nations. That police declaration should be equivalent to that code, as I read out of free sources. I'm sure we'll find it. If the Minister doesn't know about this, I think it makes sense to talk about it separately. As sad as it may seem, we're still behind the others for quite a long time. Mr Tamm asked how many of our police officers are in the European Union in terms of income. The calculations are really quite confusing, but it is clear that Estonia is around 19 to 21 among the European countries. present. They are, I must admit, a few years old data. Well, a lot of things have changed since then, but this is our place. If you believe in this ranking, we are behind Poland, Hungary, Bulgaria, Romania and Lithuania, more or less at our level of Croatia and Portugal. In fact, in all other countries, policemen's wages are higher than the average wage in this country. What interferes us with the introduction of a system that employs professionals, based on the models that exist in the world, for example, in Germany? The German policeman's salary is second in the European Union, which is quite high. In addition, they have free insurance, they receive incentives to pay housing costs, they have the right to travel free of charge in urban transport. They have very strong guarantees: in Germany, a police officer can only be fired by judgment. There is a state guarantee that the minimum wage paid to a police officer is at the average level of the country and that the so-called 13th wage, Weihnachtsgeld, or Christmas money, is also insured. At least half of the medical insurance is also taken over by the state. So there are various systems. I think it is quite humiliating for the Republic of Estonia to speak now that over 20 years have passed since regaining independence, of the fact that our current mistakes are due to the occupation. Even the President is getting tired of this. In one of his recent talks, he stated that he was already helping to develop demagoguery on the subject. Clearly, such low wages make you a truck driver and what else. These are examples that our press prints a lot. We need to change something basically. The police department is respected by the people. Yes, the police institution is one of the most respected institutions in Estonia. But only out of respect, there's a need for social guarantees, there's a need for decent pay. If there is no salary, there will soon be no policemen, at least those with long-term experience and the ability to look for criminals. As long as that doesn't happen, the perpetrator will be caught half-randomly, but if something serious happens, as happened to a girl named Varvara in Narva, it's hoped the perpetrator will jump into the hands of the police. Those who are more experienced no longer work for the police, even because they do not speak enough Estonian. But that's what we're talking about, I think, in the context of one of the next questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U206	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U207	Let's move on to the next question. I ask Mikhail Stalnukhin, representative of the Speakers of the Riigikogu, to introduce the inquiry! The inquiry is about the situation in southern West and is answered by Ken-Marti Vaher, Minister of the Interior. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U208	Mr President! Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, According to the inquiry, there was a job for an outstanding district police officer in an area with more than 5,000 inhabitants, Lihula and Hanila. We know that a candidate has been found for this position right now. But the Unmanned is also a South West patrol, and this situation has been going on for a long time. As far as I know, no solution has been found. Even President Ilves spoke about this in his traditional end-of-year interview. He said that it was inevitable that Estonia was on a small map of the world, and some tasks were too much for Estonia, so the use of resources should be monitored. Some big things could not be done, for example, to have a police officer in Lihula, said Ilves. I wonder what big thing you didn't do then. You're about to remember Estonian Air. At first I said that Lihula still had a police officer, but when this question was made, the situation was that this person had not been found during the three competitions. That's where the questions come from. It would be very interesting to know how many rural areas across Estonia are without police officers. How many regional police officers are missing all over Estonia and what is the shortage of labour in law enforcement? Does the Ministry of the Interior see the possibility of improving the working and wage conditions of regional and patrol police officers working in the countryside with a view to obtaining employees in areas where there is no police officer at present? Can money be redeployed within the agency in such a way that people go to work in the country, or does it require additional funding from the state budget? What options do the Ministry see for solving the problem in South West and for manning police patrols and district police positions based at Lihula Constable Point? As I have already said, the problem with the district police seems to have been solved, but the question of police patrol remains. Sixthly, we asked when the next competition would take place to find a district police officer at Lihula Constable. Let's skip this, just like the seventh question. So, with the generous permission of the Minister, the questioners will take back the sixth and seventh questions, there are only five specific questions, and we ask for an answer to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U209	Thank you. I ask the Minister of the Interior of the Riigikogu Chair Ken-Marti Vaheri!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U210	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! Dear heirs, thank you for your inquiry. I will first answer your first two questions on the number of police officers in rural areas. You're asking if rural areas are covered by police and what is the lack of labour in law enforcement. There are currently 55 constable stations in Estonia. As of 1 March 2013, 355 district elders and district police officers were in office. Of these, 28 are not currently in active employment, but are in military service or maternity and parental leave. There are no uncovered constable areas. The regions are served by police officers serving at the constable station. As the staff changes, the constable department's areas have been reallocated or transferred to teamwork, where the constable department's territory is one whole and the district manager is responsible for the tasks. The principle that all municipalities must be covered by the so-called "responsible officers' whose task it is to be an active partner for the municipality is to ensure the availability of the constable service. The permanent presence of the constable on the ground is not the best solution in all cases; it does not guarantee the effective use of police resources. For example, in such a case, the constable would be applied for eight hours within a working day, but sixteen hours a day would not be covered. Security is much more created by analytical and 24-hour availability of police services in line with real needs, which means that the presence of a local inpatient constable is not a primary factor in legal order. A flexible problem-driven police placement is required, including patrolling and proactive handling of problem areas. It is precisely the analysis-based display of police forces that is important; it is resource-driven. Close cooperation with local governments is very important and, of course, it is also of great value to involve the community as volunteers, with the help of voluntary law enforcement officers. In many ways, relief officers could be the first to react in remote areas. For example, there are 29 auxiliary police officers in Läänemaa today, while in Lihula, there is an active assistant police officer that shows that there is room for improvement. Police leaders also have an important role to play in the deployment of police forces, who need to respond flexibly to changes in the legal order by shifting their forces in a targeted way. From here we can move on to the third and fourth questions. Does the Ministry of the Interior see the possibility of improving the working conditions of police officers working in the countryside and of redeploying money within the department to get people to work in the country? These questions concern the salary of the employees of the PBGB. I spoke briefly about this in response to the previous question, but I would like to repeat a few thoughts. The wage increase and wage reform in 2013 mean that the salaries of police officers working in particular at lower grades and higher risk will increase. For example, the district policeman's salary increased on average by 14%. There are 266 regional police officers in the PBA. So far, their average salary was EUR 797; this year it is EUR 913. Those regional police officers who earned less than Estonia's average salary in 2012, or less than 855 euros, had an increase of at least 7%. The minimum wage in the PBA rose by 9.6%. Those officials whose salaries increased the most and who are in a lower position are 3000. We have also talked about wage reform. It can be said that the resources provided for by the wage reform and the wage increase were directed to a significant extent precisely to raise the wages of police officers, law enforcement officers and police officers working in rural areas. To conclude with Lihula, a new district police officer has taken office since 1 February, whose tasks include serving Lihula and Hanila rural municipalities. In the event of a call, the team closest to Lihula will react. A quick response is guaranteed 24 hours a day. Patrol service is organised in Läänemaa as a single unit, and there are patrols for regional police and youth police. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U211	Minister, thank you. There are no questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? I open negotiations and ask for the Riigikogu speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U212	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you for your answer. It sounded quite positive and gave us vitality and optimism. That would be the case if we didn't have the experience of how different words are spoken here from what happens afterwards in the country. We will certainly see how the salaries of police officers change, look at the absolute values, also look at wages in some parts of Estonia. When something similar happened in the education system, where wages were allowed to be raised, while bonuses were taken away, it actually made the income smaller. But we'll see. There's a little nuance that always smiles at me in Mr. Home Secretary's speeches. It's a talk about volunteers. The issue of volunteers began with the fact that they have to save us from the fire. Now they're gonna replace the cops. At the same time, anyone who thinks that this is real could imagine that instead of doctors who are missing, some groups of volunteers would be formed. The question arises as to who would like to go to a volunteer dentist instead of using the services of a professional doctor. I think the logic is the same here, you're talking about a medic or a cop. A little less demagoguery could be developed on this issue; volunteers are no way to save the situation. Only professional policemen and rescuers can do this job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U213	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. This question has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U214	Let's go to the next question, which is the ninth in line. I ask Mikhail Stalnukhin, representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair! The inquiry concerns road casualties and bears number 273. This is answered by Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U215	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Mr. Minister! Colleagues! Compared to 2011, when 101 people were killed in traffic, the number of deaths last year was lower, 88. Given that Estonia's age is decreasing from year to year, it is pleasant to know that the number of people killed is decreasing. Here are some questions on this subject. The reduction in the number of deaths is positive. We want to know what the main reasons are here. How does the Minister think it worked? Can and how can the number of victims on the road be further reduced, and what part does the Minister think is involved in the renovation of roads? We also want to know how he appreciates the role of speed cameras in reducing the number of deaths. I would like to add some general information to this, so that it would be a little more interesting to listen to this debate. The number of road fatalities in the countries of the European Union in 2010 (injury I did not find any later data, most likely not yet calculated) per million of people was 29-110, with Romania as the leader and the lowest number of deaths in Sweden. It is typical that in the last ten years, the number of deaths has fallen in almost all EU countries. Estonia is in the 15th or 16th place in this table, which shows the number of people killed on the road (it is difficult to determine the place according to the columns). Let's see how many people die for every 1,000 accidents. There are countries where slightly more than 10 people are killed per 1000 road accidents, but there are countries where more than 120 people are killed in the same number of accidents. Fantastic difference! In this ranking, we're 19th. The number of deaths still depends on the number of accidents per 100000 cars. We're at 16. That's the situation. I repeat, it is, of course, a great pity that so many people are going to die, but there have been worse times. Today we want to know how the Ministry of the Interior appreciates this situation and thanks to which it has managed to achieve more or less positive results in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U216	Thank you. I ask Ken-Marti Vaheri, Minister of the Interior of the Riigikogu Chair to answer the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U217	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, thank you very much for your questioning. The first question: 'What are the main reasons for the decrease in the number of road deaths? ' Very important and big question! I am happy to try to answer as exhaustively as possible. Indeed, 2012 was ultimately the most successful year in Estonia's recent history in terms of accident deaths. For the first time, we got under 200 casualties in traffic, fire, and water. The decrease compared to the previous year was 17.4% in total, for example four times less than in 1994. Clearly, every loss of life is tragic. But I guess there's been a lot of work done here over the last 15 years to minimise these losses. When it comes to traffic in particular, 2012 was the year in which, for the second time in this century, the number of road deaths was less than 100. While 101 people died in road accidents in 2011, last year there were 14 fewer, or 87. All other statistics also decreased, i.e. fewer traffic injuries, road accidents as a whole and road accidents with victims. When I took office, the situation was not rosy at all. 2010 was a follow-up year of the economic crisis in Estonia, the number of road deaths was really low, the traffic rate had also fallen, but in 2011, when the recovery started in some form, the traffic rate increased, other indicators improved, and we found ourselves in a situation where the number of road deaths, road injuries and road accidents started to increase at the end of 2011 and the beginning of 2012. There was a question about what this was all about. I think it was actually a matter of a lack of comprehension and inadequacy of traffic surveillance. We changed it quite significantly in the spring of 2012 with a road safety action plan adopted by the Ministry of the Interior under the leadership of the Ministry of the Interior, the general preventive effect of which was evident from the third quarter of 2012 and has actually continued until now. From the beginning, since the summer of 2011, I have made reducing the number of accidents deaths a priority for myself and for the ministry. We have focused, above all, on three main lines of action from the beginning of last year, perhaps three pillars. We will increase surveillance and use it more ingenuity, we will contribute more to prevention and we will take a more stringent approach to offenders, particularly those who have been difficult to change their behaviour so far. I'm talking about hardened offenders who are likely to have serious consequences. I will now present the road surveillance action plan, which was completed last spring in cooperation with the Police and Border Guard Board. Its main lines of action are as follows: First of all, we have quite significantly redesigned the current criminal practice. We have harmonised all the criminal practice carried out by the police in all Estonian prefectures. It can be said that 2011 will remain in the history of Estonian traffic surveillance as the year with the highest proportion of warnings. A third of all traffic offences resulted in a warning, including an interesting measure such as an oral warning in writing. We set out common principles for an out-of-court handling agent with a road traffic surveillance action plan. All officials were brought to the attention of the fact that the alert procedure can only be applied to minor misconduct. As the prerequisite for improving traffic surveillance was to focus on dealing with the actions that are causing danger in traffic and refocusing supervisory resources, we lost our priority action to address minor offences, which improve road safety. This action plan led to a significant change in criminal practice. We reduced the so-called written oral warnings almost seven times. All written oral warnings were, of course, backed up by considerable resources, all of which have taken time. We put these resources into the core business, and I think we have thus achieved an increase in the volume of traffic surveillance. The aim of the reform of the criminal practice was also to ensure that the persons subject to the proceedings would perceive the intervention of the police across the country in the same way. The same criminal practice made police activity more transparent to the citizen. The intervention threshold shall be as low as possible and uniform throughout the country, in particular in the case of serious infringements. By serious violations, I mean major speeding, drink-driving, and, of course, violation of the rules on the use of security equipment. Statistics say that during the first half of 2012, when the criminal practice was harmonised, this also meant, for example, that the level of financial penalties increased to almost 60%, particularly in the case of serious infringements. Secondly, we have implemented more than before the withdrawal of special law, as well as the detention of those offenders who had not had a significant impact on the previous sanctions. Every other driver driving more than 60 kilometres an hour had to surrender his driving licence, while driving in over half-breeds led to 39% of the hits. These figures are eloquent. We must take into account the fact that many drunkards and speed sinners did not have the right to drive, or they had already lost it. In fact, over 3,000 drivers without a driving licence were discovered and 3,500 of those whose driving rights had been suspended or withdrawn for various reasons. This was 49% more than in 2011. Thirdly, we paid significantly more attention to a long-standing possibility in law, such as the confiscation of means of transport in the event of serious violations. We applied to the court for confiscation in cases where the person had previously been punished for drunk driving, had previously been deprived of his right to drive or the crime was clearly committed in heavy drinking. 2012 ended with confiscation of the vehicle for 48 drunk drivers. As compared to 2011, this measure was essentially multiplied by a factor of ten. I think that, above all, those who have committed serious violations received a signal that the police have changed their criminal practice, with the prosecution's office using this measure considerably more, and that the court will confiscate the means of transport if there is a valid reason for this. Fourthly, in addition to confiscating drunken vehicles, it is worth noting that more attention is paid to drink driving. An example of this is the fact that before Midsummer Day, drivers crossing the threshold were taken to the detention house and requested detention as soon as possible. In the media, it was announced in advance that this practice would be used across Estonia. The main idea of this operation was that, just as the public expects the law enforcement to do the maximum, the drinkers must be separated from the traffic flow. The result was that, on 26 June last year, we could say that when 13 road traffic accidents caused by the driver intoxicated on Midsummer Day in 2011, eight people were injured, there were no traffic accidents intoxicated on driver's account at the same time in 2012. Fifthly, resources are very important. In fact, the four previous points concern resources, both directly and indirectly, but now I am talking first and foremost about the instruments of traffic surveillance, which were significantly contributed to. We also acquired 31 evidenceal alkometers in 2012 and 29 fixed four-view speedometers in the vehicle. Thus, more than one hundred evidenceal alkometers and over two hundred speedometers are used by the police, namely 219 gauges. From now on, we'll replace the depreciation equipment. This year, we're gonna get more evidenceal alcohols. These are concrete steps concerning instruments. In addition, we increased the monitoring capacity by nearly 10% last year. Everything that has been included in the action plan, and which has also been implemented, has played a rather important role in the fact that traffic surveillance has become more thoughtful, systematic and evener across Estonia. The message that well - thought - out traffic supervision prevents people from dying has started to be understood by every policeman on the street, and more and more by those policemen who are involved in traffic supervision. Of course, this year all of this will continue so that every policeman on the street will realise that his goal is not to draw up protocols, but to save human lives. He is sufficiently trained; he has received sufficient substantive methodological guidance in the area of how his actions help save human lives, prevent injuries, reduce material damage. To this end, it chooses its own measures, has the right of discretion and can also use them in criminal practice. However, the methodology shows which offences are likely to be prevented from being subject to human harm. This has indeed become more and more understood by all police officials working on the streets of Estonia. With regard to how the number of victims can be further reduced, it can be said that the impact of the changes will continue as of now. If we talk to you here today, four people have died in Estonia as of 11 March. Twenty-one people had died in the same period last year. It's five times the difference! We very much hope that this will all continue. In any case, I can say that we have taken very clear steps in making traffic surveillance more thoughtful and systematic. What are we gonna do this year? We will increase the volume of work by focusing resources primarily on the main activity. How do we do that? Two large projects are very important. One of them is the amendment of the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure in Parliament's proceedings, which simplifies the procedure and improves its quality. Today, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed this, the Committee on Legal Affairs has already discussed it, the first reading has taken place in Parliament. I hope that this bill has been passed as a law by the summer, and we can start implementing it. This means shortening the time for misdemeanour proceedings, but also improving quality, as more video material can be used as evidence in court and, of course, in misdemeanour proceedings itself, in out-of-court proceedings. Secondly, we are implementing this year's e-field procedure. This means an electronic field procedure that can be dealt with in all Estonian patrol vehicles. For this purpose, the police are equipped with technical means, the protocols can be entered directly into the police database. We are again channelling resources into the core business, increasing the volume of traffic surveillance and other areas of law enforcement. Ultimately, this should be a win-win for society as a whole. I very much hope that the number of accidents will decrease in the near future. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U218	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U219	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! I can't explain in a minute why I'm asking this, I'll do it later in my speech. But here's the question. A few years ago, I attended events in Narva where police workers shared reflectors for children in kindergartens, schools, etc. Then the money was set aside, and I'll talk about it a little later. It was likely to help. I want to know whether this year the funding has been allocated to the retro-reflecting programme, whether this programme, at least in the case of children, is being moved forward and to what extent.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U220	Thank you very much for your question. A very relevant and very correct question. I didn't mention that in my presentation. In 2012, significantly more resources were devoted to prevention on the basis of this same road safety action plan. One nuance must be corrected here: what happens in traffic is not just within the domain of one ministry, i.e. only within the area of government of the Ministry of the Interior, but, for example, prevention, also the situation of roads, which you also asked about, is in the area of government of another ministry. This Ministry is the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, which manages the Road Administration. There is also a large amount of prevention funds in the budget of the Road Administration. We had very close cooperation last summer and autumn with the Committee on Traffic and, of course, with the Road Administration in particular. We have quite several times increased these resources, which are precisely aimed at making easy-mobility more visible. It is known that the biggest problem at the end of 2011 and in the first three months of 2012 was precisely the road accidents that occurred with light road users. For example, 19 people were killed in the last month of 2011, 16 of which were not equipped with a light-wheeler retro-reflector or were not actually visible. I can say so much that in 2012, the Road Administration increased resources and handed over 112000 retro reflectors to the police, 10,000 sets of bicycle barrels and 5,000 pedestrian and cyclist reflective vests, which are very important, particularly in rural areas. In addition, cooperation was carried out with the private sector. One private company obtained 4,000 additional retro-reflective vests, which were distributed by the police to less insured road users. It's all going on this year. Indeed, making light road users visible is an extremely important preventive measure, especially in the countryside. Road users who may not be in the most adequate condition, but sit on a bike, go to the highway and are not seen in the dark must also be made visible. At the beginning of last year, there were quite a number of cases when cyclists and pedestrians lost their lives. It seems to me that there has been a significant change here; people have become more aware of the need for a retro-reflector and of the need for visibility at all. The police have distributed considerable numbers of reflectors and increased the awareness of minors and young people. With this, we can only move forward. It is clear that prevention campaigns will continue this year and on a larger scale than last year. As I have told you many times here, I believe in prevention completely. Every euro that we contribute to it will return tenfold, because we do not have to eliminate the consequences, let alone the damage that we, as a society, would lose by the loss of every human life. So that's the right question. I can assure you that the money for prevention is one of the three pillars by which we reduce accident deaths. This concerns not only traffic, but also the area of rescue, or fire deaths and injuries, and, of course, the swimming season ahead in the summer and the associated water deaths.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U221	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U222	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I was waiting for an answer to question three on the assessment of speed cameras. In this context, I have a question for you: how do you assess the work of speed cameras, what further steps are foreseen in the implementation of this programme and, if so, in which areas will this programme be carried out?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U223	Thank you very much for your question. The potential of a technical tool for traffic supervision is very high. As I described to you, several projects have been launched and implemented this year: e-outdoor procedure, simplification of misdemeanour procedures, certainly the installation of new speed cameras. I can bring you some numbers. In 2011, police officers discovered 155,000 traffic offences, some 2,200 law enforcement police officers contributed to their detection. At the same time, ten traffic procedural officials were dealing with 60000 speed overruns, which were fixed by speed cameras. They are known to be dealt with by a separate procedure called the alert procedure. The speed cameras were in use in 2011 from 17 in 2012 to 27 in addition to 40 fixed speed measuring cabins. This programme will continue, but will be implemented by the Public Road Administration, or these resources will be included in the Public Road Administration's budget, and all this will be done by the forces of the Public Road Administration. The police are a collaborator here. Once again, when we talk about traffic, this is an area of 'horizontal cooperation', which means that the achievement of results does not depend solely on the forces and competences of one ministry or its sphere of government, but rather on the cooperation of several ministries. It can be said that there is certainly a need to contribute significantly more to areas requiring horizontal cooperation in Estonia. There's room for improvement. This is not easy because there is no one hierarchical chain of command on which things are being moved, but it is important to convince each other that the measures are correct and that the resources are being allocated are appropriate. I dare say that the cooperation between MKM and the Ministry of the Interior and the Road Administration and the Police and Border Guard Board has now become very good. I think it's going on. Exactly the same thing to do with speed cams. In my opinion, they have clearly justified their role in Estonia, just as in many other Member States of the European Union. All we have to do is keep going. This is a deterrent measure that calms the traffic culture as a whole and leads people to think seriously about whether it is reasonable to drive at a very high speed or whether it is wiser to travel at one medium, reasonable, legal speed. It will certainly be cheaper, it will certainly be safer for traffic and for the person himself. I think this attitude is becoming increasingly rooted in Estonian society.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U224	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. I would like the Riigikogu's speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U225	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, In the course of this inquiry, I had a tear in my eye, in a transferred sense, of course, when I suddenly realized that even the Centre Party and the Minister of the Interior could actually find a common understanding of some subject in this Chamber. But the tear didn't come to my attention because I repeat, I speak of tears in a transfused sense, but because of nostalgic feelings. That's how it used to be in this hall, and that's what it looked like. I'm gonna tell you a story about 1999. If my memory isn't fooled, this year the Minister of the Interior was Tarmo Nature. This was the time when, apart from the 1998 default and certain measures taken by the Duma against customs tariffs, unemployment increased sharply in Ida-Viru County, and the same surge was observed in drug trafficking. There were so many sales points in houses, cars, shops, and elsewhere that people began to notice it. People approached us, we approached the Minister of the Interior, and he said: 'If you have such information, pass it to me, I will arrange it. " It happened that the members of the Centre Party Group gave the appointed minister of the Fatherland Union the addresses that the people had gathered in Sillamäe, Kohtla-Järve, and Narva. After the minister came (it exists somewhere in the archives of the Riigikogu because it was done very officially from this tribunal) and on several occasions reported on all the addresses that had been handed over by the police, whether this information had found evidence or whether it was wrong, how many such outlets had been closed and how many people had been held accountable. It seemed normal back then. I never imagined that there would ever be some sort of non-existent corruption in this Chamber to solve its political problems. In fact, things should be going on in this Chamber, as in the current question, when we reached a common language. We are pleased that the number of fatalities in road accidents is falling, and we would all like to do something to ensure that this trend continues. But now to the question, to the issues that I want to add here. Of course, statistics have also improved to some extent because quite a number of people have left the country, with active people, many of whom were driving cars. However, I will make three points. First of all, the road police. If you look at instructions on how to travel in Estonia on any Russian Internet site, you will see that there are all kinds of practical suggestions. I've read the advice several times that if the police stop you, don't try to bribe him, because with a probability of 0.001% it might help you, but in the other 99,99% of cases, you're gonna get a lot of trouble. This is a very high assessment of outsiders to our police, to those who work on our roads. Here I come back to what we discussed two questions back: salaries should correspond to the professionalism of the police. Now the retro-reflectors. There used to be this time in my life when I spent four years in a row every week watching the State Department's weekly review. I needed it for certain reasons, I checked the statistics there, because news agencies aren't talking about everything. I can tell you that five or six years ago it wasn't almost a week before somebody who had been hit by a car walking down the road hadn't died. This is possible during the dark when there is no retro-reflector with a working retro-reflector. In recent years, I have noticed that this figure is decreasing, decreasing and decreasing. There may be only one explanation: people have come to understand that their lives depend on a retro-reflector. There's only one thing that freaks me out about fines. The start of this campaign in Narva three years ago did not give people any great sympathy for reflectors. Speaking of adults, there was total pressure. More free reflectors should be distributed to people, and we'll win anyway. The money that goes to the reflectors is so small. Thirdly, I am talking about what the Minister has already spoken about indirectly here. It's alcohol. We cannot even determine whether there are more than 2600 sales points in small Estonia where strong alcohol is sold and that strong alcohol can be purchased at almost every gas station, is the subject of the Ministry of Social Affairs or the Ministry of the Interior. On average, we have about 40 times more sales points per 100000 inhabitants than in Sweden. I recall that the fewest people in the European Union are killed in road accidents in Sweden. So, alcohol out of the sales outlets, especially on the side of the road! That should also be in the Home Office's plans if the Ministry of Social Affairs doesn't deal with this right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U226	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U227	Let's move on to the tenth question. Please contact Mikhail Stalnukhin, representative of the speakers of the Riigikogu Chair! The inquiry is about the vacancies of the police prefecture in Ida-Virumaa. The inquiry is answered by Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U228	Mr President! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I think that this is the most important question to be discussed today, because it is about the police being confronted with purely political problems. It is completely unclear why this situation exists in our country. Raivo Küüt, Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board, has proposed to the Ministry of the Interior to reduce language requirements and increase the premium due to the specific characteristics of the region in order to supplement the Ida-Virumaa Action Plan. Currently, police officers holding a senior specialist or junior specialist position at the border inspection post, cordon, border guard ship, readiness unit or flight crew are required to have language skills at B2 level, or advanced level. This requirement will apply until September 2015, then the level of C1 will also be required in these positions. The language proficiency requirement for C1 currently applies to police officers who do not work in the above-mentioned positions, i.e. all other police officers. The proposal provides for a further list of posts requiring a level of B2, police officers working in the detention centre, the sobering house, the convoy and the patrol service in the capacity of a junior specialist or senior specialist. Based on the description of the language level requirements, it is clear that B2 is sufficient for these posts. It is also proposed to waive the requirement to bring the language skills of people in positions requiring this level to C1 by September 2015. Let me remind you that I referred to you a letter from Raivo Küüst. In addition, it has been pointed out that the premium due to the specific nature of the region should be increased as staff have fallen to the critical limit. It would therefore be necessary to implement this proposal as early as 2013. For example, there were 108 post-structural vacant posts in the Eastern Prefecture at the beginning of the year. It's a very large number in one precinct. Consequently, the question to the Minister for the Interior is as follows. Does he support the proposal by the Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board, Raivo Küd, to complete the Ida-Virumaa action plan and simplify the language requirements of the police officers mentioned above? What does his decision rest on? In total, we have six questions. I will use the remaining time to read to you what language level B2 and language level C1 are before we discuss the question. A person who speaks a language at level B2 must understand the core of complex abstract or specific texts and professional discussion. This requires full understanding. He must be able to have a spontaneous and smooth conversation with the native speaker of the same language. I am telling you that every person whose native language is Estonian will also be unable to comply with this requirement. Spontaneous and smooth! You know that too. It needs to be able to create a clear and detailed text on many subjects and to explain its point of view, to consider the strengths and weaknesses of these positions. Practically, as a language teacher, this means perfect language proficiency. So what separates it from C1? From here I can read a sentence: 'Considers long and complex texts, also hits hidden meaning. 'It's especially 'important' in the sobering house. Thank you. So we're waiting for answers.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U229	Thank you. I ask Ken-Marti Vaheri, Minister of the Interior of the Riigikogu Chair to answer the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U230	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Members of the Riigikogu, thank you for your questioning. I'll answer your questions. The language law is in force in the Republic of Estonia, whose § 23 lays down the requirements for the knowledge and use of the Estonian language. It sets out a number of civil service posts where working persons must be able to use the Estonian language at the level necessary for the performance of their duties or duties. Specific skills requirements are set out in the Government of the Republic Regulation. According to this regulation, police officers who are in the position of senior specialist or junior specialist at the border inspection post are required to have proficiency in Estonian at B2. This is valid until 1 September 2015, since then, all police officers are required to have a level of C1 in their language skills. The following is very important. A police officer is a representative of a state authority whose legal orders are mandatory for execution. It is therefore necessary that a police officer, directly communicating with persons and giving orders to them, be able to express himself clearly and intelligibly and that the person who received the order is able to understand it (this concerns both the written text and the oral speech). The six language levels defined in the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages in the Council of Europe are used to describe and evaluate language skills. Indeed, speaking the language at level C1, as the respected heir mentioned, it is necessary to understand long and complex texts, to capture hidden meaning, to be able to make yourself spontaneously and smoothly understandable without looking for expressions, etc. You are asking whether we support the proposal to simplify language requirements. I don't see that need right now. It has been agreed that the requirements will be different from 1 September 2015. In my opinion, it is important that the officials who must and are justified in using national coercion speak a high level of Estonian. This is an important prerequisite for them to fulfil their obligations. As regards the increase in the premium due to the specific nature of the region, I can say that we have already mentioned the language issue. In order to ensure a workforce in the Eastern Prefecture, activities are set out in a separate action plan, which was endorsed in April 2011 by a letter from the Director-General of the PBGB. These activities also include organising Estonian language trainings in cooperation with the Estonian National Defence Academy, Integration and Migration Foundation and Central Estonian Development Centre. The premium is an important measure. One of the wage components of police officers working in Ida-Virumaa was a premium of EUR 63 last year. Ida-Virumaa police officers were also granted 15 state budget seats in the distance training of the Estonian National Defence Academy. It can be said that this year the region's premium has increased. In addition, housing costs (up to EUR 100 per month) were also reimbursed in 2012. An additional EUR 336000 will also be allocated to staff costs this year in order to improve the working capacity of the Eastern Prefecture. Finally, you ask about 108 vacancies. According to our data, the composition of police structures in Ida-Virumaa has remained the same since March 2012. Currently, there are 770 police officers. We need to recruit more people to patrol the Jõhvi and Narva precinct. As I said, in order to implement the Ida-Viru County Action Plan, there will be additional money for this year. There must also be mention here of the salary increase, which I have already spoken about in response to the first and second questions. The total amount of this money was EUR 7 million, of which an important part went to the Eastern Prefecture to increase the salaries of police officers working in Ida-Viru County, regional police, traffic police, border patrols, criminal mentors and special forces staff. It must also be mentioned that the impact of 1 January this year is due to wage reform and wage increases. This, of course, also applies to Ida-Virumaa. So, as a whole, quite a number of measures have been taken to fill positions in Ida-Virumaa and to stand up for more law enforcement and police officers there too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U231	Minister, there are questions for you. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U232	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister! For starters, you said there was a language law. Then you told me what it said. Minister, are you really not aware of what the Riigikogu has been dealing with for the past 21 and a half years? The Riigikogu deals with adopting new laws and changing old ones. There is nothing that is written into the law and cannot, in principle, be changed. Why don't you leave the possibility that, in the course of the debate, the fact that there has been over-emphasis and level C1 doesn't even correspond to the average level of the Riigikogu can be established by means of completely clear arguments?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U233	Thank you for your question. I really want to hope that level C1 corresponds to the average level of the Riigikogu. I always leave room for discussion, that is not a question at all. It's always possible to reason. I also tried to justify, in response to the question, why the steps concerning the changing requirements of 1 September 2015 are in force. In my opinion, those who apply direct coercion must master the Estonian language at an advanced level. The year 2015 is far enough, with two and a half years to come. People have the opportunity to acquire Estonian at C1. You have claimed from this very remote, and you also claim in your question that there is essentially no difference between levels B2 and C1. After all, those people whose language skills are currently at level B2 will have no problem if they want to meet the C1 requirements. There's no question, there's plenty of time. These people have the will, I hope, they do. I'm sorry, but we understand perfectly that state coercion, direct coercion, state coercion are so important things that we must not leave here the possibility that one or the other official will not understand that his orders are not being followed, that there may be errors in his written text that distort the content and meaning of the order, order or procedure. We really can't leave this opportunity here. A transitional period is therefore also foreseen. We can, of course, discuss whether any changes are needed here. However, I see the reasons and reasons for us to move forward in the agreed action plan and also to comply with the language law in Ida-Viru County.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U234	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U235	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Some time ago, I asked you a question about the vacancies at the Eastern Prefecture. Then you couldn't answer, you took time off because you didn't have all the data and you needed time to clarify it. Now you said that all resources are either shared and directed. I have this question: how long will it take for the situation in Ida-Virumaa to change, a month, two months, six months, until the end of the year? Those policemen who are currently working are overloaded. Of course, a month or two may both work and be satisfied with the extra fee, but after that comes physical fatigue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U236	Thank you very much for your question. When I answered the first and second questions, I stressed that we have focused additional resources on wage components and budget growth; they will, of course, also go to Ida-Viru County. These should be the prerequisites for creating the possibility that vacancies, if any, will be filled and people's motivation improved. That's what we can do. As I mentioned, the region's premium as such has also increased, additional housing costs are paid for, staff will be assigned to state budget places in the distance training of the National Defence Academy. As far as language skills are concerned, training will be provided together with partners. I think a lot of these steps have been taken in Ida-Virumaa, especially since the beginning of the year. I think it is certainly difficult for the management of the Eastern Prefecture, including the new head of the PBGB and the management of the PBGB as a whole. The question is that it is not the easiest thing to measure what situation we should be in. I want to point out that certain assumptions have been created. I think they will also bring the expected results in Ida-Viru County. The wage reform is intended to improve the situation of people in low-paid positions. There are quite a few such positions in Ida-Viru County.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U237	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U238	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. As your minister, you are responsible for what is happening in Ida-Virumaa in connection with police work. My colleague, Efendiev, asked how much time it would take. But I ask, according to your answer to him, how much money is needed so that the situation becomes such that the opposition will no longer question you. So when does the frame problem end in Ida-Virumaa?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U239	I believe that this issue also concerns other counties to some extent. This question also concerns other positions and representatives of other disciplines in many sectors of Estonian society, a large number of employees in the public sector who would certainly like to receive higher incomes than is possible. But as we have talked about, the opportunities of the Estonian state are what they are. We can't share the air, we can't afford the air. When I answered this question, I tried to point out what has been done specifically for Ida-Viru County. I mentioned the Ida-Viru County Action Plan, which has been in place since 2011. I also mentioned the specific amounts that have been allocated. As I said, more than EUR 330000 has been allocated to the staff costs of Ida-Viru County separately this year. In addition, there are amounts resulting from wage reform and wage increases.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U240	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. I would like the Riigikogu's speech chair to Mikhail Stalnukhin! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U241	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, look this way, please. I'm trying to explain to you what you're wrong about. You're not a language teacher, you don't understand what you're talking about. Look, this is level B2, this is level C1. You may feel that this transition is going to be quite smooth and does not cause any problems. However, the level B2 can also be this, because the law says that if the exam is passed to 60%, the person's language skills will meet these requirements. I'm saying level B2 means perfect language proficiency. In order to move on from there, a person must already master the language perfectly, only then can he go on. This is not possible and it is not necessary. I have one such dream: 101 people sitting in this hall will take the test for C1 language level. I'd be surprised if the average score was better than 75%. How many people in this hall who have graduated from school with a gold medal? How many people repeat the rules every day? How many people are reading Estonian textbooks of the Estonian school every day? How many are there who use the dictionary to control their use of words? Yeah, well, it's a dream, it's just a dream. But what if, once you take this exam in this hall, you do it at the same pace as the Russian national police officers have to do it when they're required to have a C1 level if the stress is that even a person with a normal nervous system will lose their nerves? That's it. I've long been interested in why it happens that sometimes some lonely people, sometimes the whole mass, are going to have something completely insane, they just go crazy. You know, I have a small library of practical psychology at home, just three shelves, because there aren't many books. There are also books about witch processes, medieval magic textbooks, etc. I can tell you, for example, how in the Middle Ages a person could make himself invisible. There is a certain recipe that thousands and millions of people believed for hundreds of years. According to this recipe, it was necessary to capture a black cat and kill it on a full moon night at the intersection of the roads in the woods, which was supposed to be the place where the horse thief was buried (they were buried at the crossing of the forest roads in the Middle Ages). Certain plants had to be harvested in the forest at a certain time, the cat's brains dried and boiled with these plants, add a blade and say a few words, and so the person who smeared himself with this abomination became invisible. I wonder how many people with this drug could make themselves invisible. I think the answer is close to 0. But millions believed it. Mr. Secretary, you're like a medieval witch right now. You believe what you're saying. You believe that a person who is more than 30 years old, who no longer has opportunities to study, such as schoolchildren, a person who does not have time, is capable of obtaining a C1 level. Level C1 means that a person understands an abstract idea. I am saying that here too among our colleagues there are people who understand not even abstract ideas, but just normal ideas that everyone understands. But you think it's real. Level B2 already means perfect language skills, especially in Ida-Virumaa conditions. After all, understand that a person who speaks the language at level B2 who has passed the exam to 60% and more is able to speak that language. He can read Luts or Tammsaare and understand what they're talking about. He also understands what a drunk or a crook says. Who does he have to talk to on the street? Does this drunkard, crook or sober house client begin to form a text that contains hidden thoughts, indirect speech, etc.? Are you kidding me? You've come to your head with a completely insane idea! This is all political and, for political reasons, you cannot give it up. You're looking for that black cat and road crossing in the woods where the horse thief is buried, to find these plants, to dry the cat's brains, to boil this grass and to try to become invisible. You're all just crazy. That's absolutely impossible! Why don't you ever talk to professionals? There is the Institute of Estonian Language, there is the University of Tallinn. For once, bring together the professionals who teach Estonian, among others Estonians. Summon the Estonian language teachers from the Estonian gymnasium and listen to what they tell you about the Estonian language spoken by Estonian youth today. It's such a nightmare! Read the paper, take the Postman, open up and look! Recently, a great linguist had a jubilee. He turned 75. A short article was published on this subject, but it gave an exhaustive idea of what professionals are thinking about what is currently happening in the Republic of Estonia with the Estonian language. Maybe you'll find out that what was once put into the law, no one checked, wasn't there any experts. You're creating problems in Ida-Virumaa. We're filing a personal bill because if those 108 policemen were at work, Varvara might still be alive.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U242	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. An inquiry has been answered.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-11_U243	Good fellows! Anyone who wishes to sign up for a hammer strike in a free microphone! No requests, today's trial is over. I thank you and wish you the strength of your work! Closure of the sitting at 20:24 a.m.
