ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U1	Honourable Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Government! Let's start the January 16th briefing. Before we go to the questions, please, let's have a presence check! Currently 41 members of the Riigikogu registered to be present and 60 are missing. The following members of government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Defence Urmas Reinsalu and Minister of Foreign Affairs Urmas Paet. We have received a total of seven issues that we want to ask questions. In order to be able to discuss as many issues as possible, we agree that more than two issues recorded on the spot cannot be put on a single subject.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U2	Let's get started. The first questioner is Rannar Vassilyev, the question is to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip and the issue is public debt. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U3	Thank you. Good Prime Minister! My question is inspired by your sympathy for statistics. As we know, in the second quarter of 2005, when you became Prime Minister, Estonia's general government gross debt was 500 million euros, while by the third quarter of 2012, it had increased to 1.6 billion euros. The increase has been 3.2 times, expressed as a percentage of 220%. Do you know in which Member States of the European Union growth has been just as fast at the same time?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U4	Thank you. I don't know. But I certainly know that the debt burden of the Estonian government is the smallest in the European Union. It was the smallest when I became Prime Minister, and it's the smallest now. You will probably also know why the government debt ratio has increased in absolute figures. Basically, two sources can be identified. One is the additional debt burden through the EFSF and the other is a loan by the European Investment Bank of EUR 550 million. This loan has been taken out in two parts. It has been said that we have made very important investments in Estonia with this. This loan is intended to co-finance funds from different EU funds and has been at very low interest rates. In the first part, the interest rate was 0.56% by memory. We'll earn a lot more from our reserves than we're paying for the loan.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U5	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vassilyev, the first point to be specified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U6	Thank you. These countries could be Ireland and Latvia, while others have not experienced such a rapid increase in government debt. But I have the impression that Estonia's low debt burden is a service to governments led by the current Prime Minister. Would it not be more correct in the future to note the fact that Estonia's debt and debt are relatively low compared to many other Member States of the European Union, but above all because those government leaders who were in office before you did not take in debt?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U7	Thank you. Your argument is only partially true. The Heads of Government, who led the government of the Republic of Estonia before me, also participated in borrowing and the governments that led me have paid back the loans taken in the past. In this sense, the time when Aivar Sõerd was the Minister of Finance, who was known to be the world's best minister of finance, was particularly outstanding. In his time, the government debt was paid back in a particularly substantial manner. At a time of crisis, the public debt of a very large number of countries has increased. You mentioned some countries. There is also one country in Europe that has seen a rise in public debt of almost 100% of GDP during the crisis. These are very significant increases. If we look south, we can see that the public debt burden of our neighbouring countries has increased by 20 to 30% of GDP in the crisis. The debt burden of the Estonian government has remained at almost the same level as it has been for years. We have not had to take debts to pay off daily expenses. We've only borrowed money to invest. Once again, as a percentage of GDP, the debt ratio of the Estonian government is the smallest in the European Union. Even if you cannot be proud of this achievement, I find it difficult to tell you anything that you can rejoice about.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U8	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vassilyev, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U9	Did I understand the end of the answer correctly? Did you mean that those who cannot be proud of our low debt have no reason to be proud of anything else?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U10	I'm sure every person will find something to be proud of. However, when it comes to public debt, there is absolutely no reason to be proud of the high debt burden, but there is simply a need to be proud of the lowest debt burden in the European Union. While the average citizen in the European Union pays an average of 860 euros per year to service government debts and, for example, the Greek citizen pays 1331 euros per year as interest on government loans, the Estonian citizen pays an average of 16 euros per year to service government debts. There is a very large difference between EUR 16 and EUR 860 here. We can use the money that other citizens of the European Union pay for bank interest for the development of the country. We can pay teachers a higher salary for this money and a higher pension for pensioners. I think that the choices made by my governments, as well as by previous governments, have been good for Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U11	Thank you. Now, the matter registered on the spot. Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U12	Thank you. Prime Minister! Public debt is low, but the debt burden of Estonian people is extremely high. I think that should be the government's concern, too. But let's talk more about finance. You like to say we're good for finance. The IMF has now recognised that many countries have cut their economic growth to death in times of crisis. That's what happened to us, we had one of the biggest recessions. However, the question is where will the workforce come from in the future? People are now leaving Estonia. Today's papers show how small our birth rate is, it's back to the 2004 level. Where do you think the workforce will come from in the future and where this wealth will grow so that the debt burden can remain the way it wants to be?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U13	Thank you. In Estonia, wealth is growing and unemployment is decreasing. According to the latest Eurostat survey, unemployment has fallen most rapidly in Estonia during the year (three quarters have been explained). While our unemployment rate is high at 9.5%, it is well below the average level of unemployment in the euro area. Tax revenues were also much better than expected last year. As we know, we overcame 2.3% of tax revenues last year compared to the budget. The payment is still paid on revenue, and without revenue there is no reason to pay the payment to the state budget. So people's solvency has improved. Yesterday, news came that wages from the European countries have increased most rapidly in the Republic of Estonia. It is worth believing, too, not spreading all sorts of stories that you don't know anyone who knows anyone, and so on. If tax revenues are collected and confirmed by Eurostat, this wage growth is likely to have existed. The claim that private individuals have a high debt burden is partly true. It grew relatively rapidly between 2005 and 2008. To date, private debt has decreased, not increased. However, compared to the European Union average, or especially to our northern neighbours Finland and Sweden, it is clear that the debt burden on our private individuals is still relatively small.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U14	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Please, Heimar Lenk, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U15	Thank you. Prime Minister! My question is two-part. You say that we are pleased because our wages are rising most rapidly in the European Union. Let us not forget that our salaries are also almost the lowest in the European Union. They're supposed to get up a little, so people can live. I mean, our wages are so bad. Our salaries and pensions are the worst in Europe, as we know. That's one. Secondly, it is said that a government that does not take out a loan will take that money out of its own people's pockets. I recall the election rally of the Reform Party that you will not be borrowing from future generations. But now, as I understand it, it has been done.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U16	Thank you. No, the governments that I run have not borrowed from future generations. Let it be repeated once again that the government debt of the Republic of Estonia is the lowest in the European Union and should remain so in the future. Those countries that have taken large loans at the expense of future generations have already had to pay very painfully for this in the current crisis.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U17	Thank you. Let us close the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U18	Let us go to the next question, which is double citizenship. The question is for Foreign Minister Urmas Paet and the questioner is Yana Toom.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U19	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I must admit that there is, in my opinion, a lot of confusion in this issue of double citizenship. It is known that our constitution will not allow the citizenship acquired by birth to be taken away from anyone. As a result, we actually have hundreds, if not thousands, of people with double citizenship. Some of them live in Russia, for example, in Petseri County. My question is why we are going to discuss this issue right now. You opened this debate. What happened now? Why are we doing this now? Why do we do this at all, if we have this practice completely and our honourable President was a citizen of two countries a few years ago?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U20	Thank you. I think that this debate and, hopefully, the resulting decisions are essential for two main reasons. The first reason, rather legal, is that the Citizenship Act says that an Estonian citizen must not have any other citizenship. At the same time, the Constitution says that birth citizenship cannot be taken away from anyone. Perhaps there is an important point in our law that cannot be forced to do if it is not complied with. I think that there should not be laws in the Estonian judicial area that can not be enforced. But the most important reason is that the people who have the citizenship of Estonia and other countries and who are Estonian citizens after birth are around 100 000. Most of them are people who left Estonia in the forties of the last century and their descendants, all of whom are Estonian citizens after birth. But there will be more birth citizens all the time, because in the open world, Estonian citizens will marry not only Estonian citizens but also citizens of other countries. Here's the question of their children. Therefore, I think it is right that this contradiction, which concerns Estonian citizens at birth, be removed from Estonian law. In my opinion, double citizenship should be allowed to birth citizens. I don't think it's right to stress people who have two citizenships and to force them to break the law in force in Estonia. As far as timing is concerned, the current Citizenship Act entered into force in spring 1995. This law says that when a young person turns 18 and has several citizenships, he or she must make a choice as to whether he or she will take the citizenship of Estonia or another country. In this spring of 2013, the generation will be 18 years old, which, according to this law, will have to make choices.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U21	Dear ministers, let's try to fit the answers in two minutes! Please, Yana Toom, the first question to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U22	Thank you, Madam President. I guess it's important to answer for so long if the answer doesn't fit in two minutes. I'd be happy to ask you more than a minute, if that were possible, but unfortunately there isn't. Have you analysed which countries' citizens come to us? Since I am more of a Russian-speaking media reader, I know that the Russian media is currently having a very heated discussion about the fact that we are going to have a large number of citizens from the Russian Federation. The question is which countries we should then consider. Do you think the circle of these countries should be restricted or regulated?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U23	First of all, due to the possible amendment to the Citizenship Act, that double citizenship will be allowed to Estonian citizens after birth, no one will come. This change would simply bring our legal space into line with real life. As I mentioned, according to the Constitution, birth citizenship cannot be withdrawn from anyone, even if a person does not comply with the current citizenship law, i.e. he or she has more than one nationality. As I mentioned, there are about a hundred thousand of these people. Allowing Estonian citizens after birth to have double citizenship would create legal clarity in the current situation and would not grant anyone any rights at the so-called practical level. The brief answer to your question is that it will not open any new doors to anyone, but will create legal clarity. On the other hand, it is no longer necessary to put children, one parent of whom is an Estonian citizen at birth and the other parent is a citizen of another country, before the immoral choice, in my opinion, of choosing between mother and father's citizenship.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U24	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom, the second point of clarification!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U25	Thank you, Madam President. I disagree with you, Minister. This debate will certainly open a new door, because there are now many people who have not taken advantage of this opportunity because it is not certain whether it is allowed or not. But that's not my question. My question is as follows. In fact, we already have a big difference between birth and birth citizens. For example, naturalisation can deprive a citizen of citizenship, cannot run for president, etc. Now we are talking about another possibility, which is only for birthright citizens. It is usually said that such a barrage can be justified by a well - worthwhile national interest. What kind of interest do you think is at stake now when we talk about the fact that some citizens of the so-called first variety can have double citizenship, but citizens of the second variety can't?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U26	First of all, surely people should not be divided into varieties. That kind of rhetoric could stop. It only creates new social stress and nothing else. It is a very common international practice for legitimate citizens to be allowed double citizenship more easily than for those who have received naturalisation. For example, in all of the 15 EU Member States that were in the European Union before 2004, birth citizens are allowed to have double citizenship. At the same time, double citizenship is also allowed for those who have acquired citizenship by naturalisation, in about half of the countries. The difference is mainly due to the fact that naturalisation acquired citizenship has been a manifestation of the free will of a person, it is a choice of a person, but citizenship at birth has not been a choice of a person. There are certainly much better legal theorists in this hall than I do, and they can give you a more thorough academic overview than I can do in these two minutes. But it is a widespread practice in the world that, for example, the concept of double citizenship is different in the case of birth and naturalisation, since one person may also have two citizenships at birth and has them "automatically." They are born, as the word says, there has nothing to do with man's choice. This is also the case with regard to whether someone is going to take something off the side or not and whether it can or cannot be done.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U27	Thank you. Please, Jevgeni Ossinovski, the matter registered on the spot!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U28	Thank you, Mr President. Good Minister of Foreign Affairs! You rightly said that on April 1, this year, the time will come for a large number of young people to be put before an immoral choice, as you say, and for them to choose their father or mother's nationality. Given the discussions in the coalition and in the government and the fact that your coalition partner has said that they do not support the legitimisation of double citizenship in any form, as legislator, I want to know when the government can expect a draft on this point so that we can resolve this problem before 1 April. Or do you think that the legislator should take the initiative here before the government can decide anything on this matter, if it can at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U29	First of all, this deadline is April 2013. Yeah, that's when new people get to that choice. When you read the Estonian Citizenship Act, it turns out that the principle of this law is not met by all those people who are already older and who have had double citizenship for the last 20 years, since the restoration of Estonian independence. I can't tell you the deadlines here today. Last time the government discussed this issue, it was in the middle of last year, then the Ministry of the Interior, which should also organise legal space and legislation on citizenship in Estonia and make proposals, received an assignment from the government to discuss and analyse this issue. They have now come up with one amendment or a draft amendment to the Citizenship Act. It is currently in the ministerial coordination circle. I hope that this could reach the government in the next few weeks and, of course, in Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U30	Thank you. Please, Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U31	Thank you. Dear Minister, I'm sure you've been thinking about a problem like this. If the legislative amendment you propose is made and allowed to Estonian citizens after birth legally double citizenship, how should we behave after the law enters into force with people who, when they acquire citizenship of another country after birth, behave according to the letter of the law and give up Estonian citizenship?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U32	This picture is different. There are countries that, like Estonia, demand that if they want to become citizens of this country, they must give up other citizenships. This is already a requirement under the laws of this particular country, this country demands it, and the person makes his or her choice. At the same time, there are a number of countries, as I said before, which do not demand it, who give citizenship without demanding that other citizenships be abandoned. There are also quite a number of people who have two citizenships at birth and who have not had to make any choice at all. Those people who have double citizenship and who have renounced Estonian citizenship because they have taken the citizenship of another country form several groups. In addition, of course, there are people who, by virtue of the laws of this other country, have not been obliged to renounce Estonian citizenship, but they have abandoned it on the basis of the Estonian Citizenship Act. They have been completely law-abiding and have done what Estonian law has required. I don't have an answer to your question today. In itself, these people have complied with the law, and everything has been in accordance with the law. Fortunately, however, I do not think that very many other people have renounced Estonian passport and citizenship, even though the Citizenship Act has provided for this. One part of this debate must certainly be the debate on those people who have literally followed the Estonian Citizenship Act and even if the other country has not requested it, has, however, legally renounced Estonian citizenship. I think there's a lot of really individual causes and cases here. Obviously, it is one of the complex components of this story, precisely from the point of view of justice.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U33	Thank you very much. Let us close the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U34	Let's go to the next question. Since we still have five issues to discuss, only one issue on the ground can be asked as of the next issue. Please, Sven Mikser, this is a question for Secretary of Defense, Urmas Reinsalu, about the provisions of the Ministry of Defence!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U35	Thank you. Mr. Minister! I happen to have the Rõuge municipality newsletter that appeared last December. There, Jaak Pächter, Chairman of the Rõuge Vallavolikogu, who, as far as I know, is also a member of the IRL, writes: 'In cooperation with the Ministry of Defence, we will replace the roof of the Nurs village centre next year, for which the Ministry promised to allocate EUR 45000. ' I wish that all the villages in Estonia would have new roofs, but I do know that money does not normally come from the defence budget. That is why I am asking you whether EUR 45000 will be allocated from the Ministry of Defence's budget this year to change the roof of the Nurs village centre, as the Chairman of the Council writes, and if so, which budget line will give such money.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U36	Thank you, Honourable Asker. The Ministry of Defence cooperates with local governments on issues relating to the development of defence objects. It is clear that defenceal objects and their development, whether they are practice courses or shooting ranges, bring certain burdens and restrictions on the local community. The Ministry of Defence is interested in doing this work in cooperation with the community, also supporting the initiatives needed for the local community. There's been this kind of practice in the Department of Defense before. I remember Muhu's radar as soon as the public road to it was fixed. This is a common practice in countries where cooperation with local residents is sought, so that the local community, including the municipality, is also willing, despite the constraints of national defence that may be imposed on an object. I think the current practice is reasonable. These decisions will be monitored later. As far as the budget is concerned, indeed, the development of defence-related objects is carried out by the Ministry of Defence's resources.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U37	Thank you. Please, Sven Mikser, the first question to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U38	Thank you. I fully understand that if Nursipal is located in a Defence Forces shooting area or exercise field, and there are mobile defence equipment arriving from elsewhere for training there, that means an extra load on the roads, and it makes perfect sense if the Ministry of Defence partially compensates for the cost of repairing or maintaining these roads. However, the roof of Nurs village centre is unlikely to get such a burden. Is it known that the roof of the Nurs village centre has been damaged or foreseen as a result of the location of the Defence Forces exercise field in this area? Or is there some other principle here, some other procedure for granting grants? That's my second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U39	Thank you. No, it's not. Those rules are identical. The rules are that there should be cooperation with the local community, so that the local community is also interested in this defence-related object being realised. If we look at this particular case concerning the construction of the Nursipalu site, there has been a very serious and intensive dialogue with the local government. The representatives of the local community have had very conflicting views. I think that the decisions that will allow cooperation to be developed will certainly be taken using the resources of the Ministry of Defence. It serves this purpose, so that national defence objects can be developed. The local community also receives support for such objects, which essentially compensates for the constraints that the defence object inevitably entails.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U40	Thank you. Please, Sven Mikser, the second point of clarification!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U41	Thank you. Lastly, I would like to know if there is any list of municipalities that could apply for such Ministry of Defence's allocations, for example, to renovate their cultural and social objects. Is there any way to apply for these allocations? There is certainly an interesting question in itself as to whether such subsidies are also defence expenditure according to the NATO classification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U42	Thank you. These grants are, of course, expenditure relating to the construction of a specific object. Obviously, the Ministry of Defence does not make any general local government investment that is separate from this objective, i.e. the establishment of defence objects. This will take place in cooperation with local authorities and the community. All these decisions on these expenditures are, of course, available. The Ministry of Defence has one objective: that defence-related objects should be established and the local community would agree to this, also on the basis of the rights arising from the planning law concerning the coordination of the establishment of defence-related objects. Our expenditure is due to this objective and is recorded in the Ministry of Defence according to general standards.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U43	Thank you. One issue registered on the spot. Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U44	Thank you. Mr. Minister! Do you choose cooperation partners personally in this work, or do you have a small body or council in the ministry to discuss these matters?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U45	Thank you. As I mentioned, we are talking about certain defence objects that the Ministry of Defence wants to build on the territory of a particular municipality. We know that this in many cases leads to conflicting feelings among local people, as this may lead to restrictions, but overall cooperation with local authorities has been reasonable. Which municipalities are cooperating with depends on where these sites are located, where they have been decided to build for military planning reasons. The kind of agreement to be reached with the local community depends on negotiations. I can say from the example given by the good questioner Sven Mikser that there has been dialogue with the local community for quite a long time. I think this dialogue will continue, unfortunately, but the Ministry of Defence is an open partner in this debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U46	Thank you. I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U47	Let's go to the next question. Aivar Riisalu has asked Prime Minister Andrus Ansip about the future of Estonian Air. Please, Aivar Riisalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U48	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! The behaviour of the Estonian state towards its airline, which has been tried to keep on the water with possible loans, has been most grateful. At the moment, it is obviously not clear whether we have gone against the criteria for the admissibility of State aid in the context of the European Union. But my question is that we all understand that we really need this airline. Do we also have a plan B when the European Union says that we must not save our airline and state aid is illegal?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U49	Thank you. We don't even have a very good plan A at the moment.If there is no plan A, there's no reason to expect anyone to have a plan B, C, D or E in case plan A doesn't materialise. As a company, both the Government (notably the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications) and Estonian Air are currently engaged in the plan A, or the plan to maintain Estonian Air.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U50	Thank you. Please, Aivar Riisalu, the first question to be specified!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U51	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good Prime Minister! A few days ago, information came out that Estonian Air was being transferred to the Ministry of Finance. The reason was that this was a strategic financial investment by the State and could be managed by the Ministry of Finance. Is it a clear sign that the really unclear plan of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications of the A Ministry of Economic Affairs is creating a situation where the Ministry of Economic Affairs cannot handle a very broad area of its administration and that is why it is necessary to transfer Estonian Air to the Ministry of Finance?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U52	Thank you. Everyone knows that plan A, the plan to preserve Estonian Air, is relatively fragile. This will depend both on the European Commission's view on the legality of the State aid and on the staff, how the agreement with them and the agreements still to be concluded will affect Estonian Air as well as the company. Of course, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the government will also have to deal with scenarios that could be realised if Plan A does not work if the worst case scenario materialises. The question of what happens when the worst-case scenario materialises is, of course, current in a number of national institutions. However, I am convinced that the transfer of Estonian Air from one ministry to another is not part of these plans. That wouldn't help. As we have read in the press, the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications denies that he would have said something like that to a journalist. There is no objective to move Estonian Air, especially at this stage, to another ministry.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U53	Thank you. I will exercise the authority of the President and give the floor next to Tarmo Tammele and Jaan Apple Tree, so that more people can ask. I understand that Aivar Riisalu has another point of clarification, but it's not obligatory. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U54	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! It has now become apparent that the main cause of Estonian Air's economic difficulties is incorrect management decisions, in particular the purchase of Bombardiers. Prime Minister, can you tell me if anyone in the Council is responsible for these decisions or if someone in the government is taking political responsibility for it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U55	Thank you. Of course, I wouldn't explain the economic difficulties of Estonian Air so easily. If the purchase of Bombardiers was the one and only reason why the airline is in difficulty, then it should be asked why other European aviation companies that have declared bankruptcy or are balancing at the border of bankruptcy have encountered economic difficulties, because they have not bought Bombardiere. Yeah, there's a lot to explain with mismanagement. If certain management decisions had not been taken, the situation of Estonian Air would probably be much better. However, for the sake of objectivity, it should be pointed out that Estonian Air has never been a very profitable company. Estonian Air has been rescued during its entire existence by additional capital injections and loans. There have been problems in Estonian Air all along. Obviously, the objective reason for these problems is due to the small size of our country. The rules governing the aviation market in the European Union should probably be substantially amended so that small countries can also work profitably in the aviation business.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U56	Please, Jaan Apple Tree, the second issue registered on site!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U57	Thank you, President-in-Office. Prime Minister! What concerns responsibility, especially that of the members of the Council, certainly needs to be dealt with in the future. But I'm coming back to the state aid. There have been very different opinions here, but they said that this authorisation had been asked in Brussels and that it had not yet been asked. My question concerns EUR 8.2 million in government loans. How long will Estonian Air be able to maintain confidence in its partners with this? When will the time come when we need to come back to ask for money, all the more so as it may take a long time to obtain a state aid permit?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U58	Thank you. The same loan that has been granted must also be subject to State aid authorisation. With restructuring investments, or state aid in this regard, the case is that, according to EU regulations, once, the state can only grant aid to an airline once, in the case of restructuring and reorganisation. In order for the European Commission to be convinced that one time really will be the only time, there must be a very decent business plan. The business plan must be such that it really convinces the decision-makers. At the moment, we do not have a business plan that could convince the European Commission. We apply for a State aid authorisation for a loan granted in part. The government has decided to lend a little over eight million euros to Estonian Air. A relatively small part of it has now been borrowed. Each subsequent loan payment is decided by the Government of the Republic. Whether or not the following loan payments are made depends on the economic situation of Estonian Air and on the extent to which Estonian Air's employees and people using Estonian Air's services believe in the future of Estonian Air.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U59	Thank you very much. I will conclude the debate on this issue. Let's save time. Paragraph 146 of the Home and Rules of Procedure Act states that Question Time is the right of the President to decide. In fact, only one issue has been formally registered, and the President may give an opportunity on the spot to ask additional or more specific questions. It's not obligatory. Please, Aivar Riisalu, a procedural question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U60	I am saddened about this because it is the first time in the six years I have been in the Riigikogu that has not been given such an opportunity. My questions were very substantive; they were not even oppositionally malicious. The Minister of Economic Affairs cannot give the Estonian people confidence in the future of Estonian Air. The Prime Minister's answers were adequate and necessary for mankind and our people. As a result, I am extremely sorry for the obstruction of the normal process of substantive disputation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U61	Thank you. I do not evaluate the substance of the questions; they are certainly all very meaningful. But colleagues Marianne Mikko, Heljo Pikhof and Arto Aas also want to have the right to be asked during Question Time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U62	Let's go to the next question. Please, Marianne Mikko, a question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Urmas Paet, on development aid.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U63	Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, The budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs last year provided for EUR 900000 for foundations for promoting the worldview to be built on political parties. However, the planned use of taxpayers' money created a sharp resonance in society, so political parties decided not to implement what was planned and not to use the money. By taking advantage of our increasingly generalised state budget, in which the Ministry's expenditure is concentrated on a few lines of wage costs and allocations, you divided the money into 14 development projects. Why did you decide to win and distribute taxpayers' money by ignoring the legislator's will? You've admitted to Delfi in an interview about the purpose of the money.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U64	I am, of course, very surprised by the tone of this question. It is remembered that when the Riigikogu handled the 2012 state budget a little more than a year ago and at its third reading, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Foreign Affairs were surprised to have EUR 900000 in the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the only thing that had been written about it was that it was a non-assigned provision. The Ministry of Finance specified that it was intended to support democracy. I still don't understand why you didn't write into the state budget law that it was meant for the foundations of promoting political parties' worldview. This money was allocated to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to support democracy. Even when I learned of this, I proposed to the Riigikogu that this money be transferred from the line of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Riigikogu's own budget. The Riigikogu did not agree to this. In the autumn of last year, when the budget for last year's budget change came up, I proposed for the second time to the Riigikogu that these 900000 euros be transferred to the Riigikogu budget. The Riigikogu did not agree with this proposal. Twice the Riigikogu confirmed that it is perfectly good if this money for supporting democracy is in the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs because, as you yourself said, these foundations were not created. Generally, ministries, including the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, have decisions of the Riigikogu to comply with. The state budget is the same as the decision taken by the Riigikogu to comply with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Given that Estonia has so far failed to meet the indicative objective of funding for development cooperation (0,11% of GDP went to development cooperation last year, 0.17% to the indicative target for 2015), and that the Ministry of Finance's only record provided that money should be allocated to support democracy, as well as that the state budget law was to be implemented, we decided to allocate this amount to various international development cooperation projects to support democracy.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U65	Please, Minister of Foreign Affairs, let's finish this answer! Please, Marianne Mikko, a very specific question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U66	Increasing the money for development cooperation is not bad; we are very happy to sign it. However, I do not understand why you did not plan these amounts for the 2012 state budget and instead distributed the money that the legislator had decided not to spend. How has the financing of development aid been taken into account in this year's budget? Are the amounts earmarked for this purpose in an increasing trend or are they below the actual costs of the previous year? We want to know if your policy is consistent.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U67	First of all, let us be precise: the legislator did not decide not to waste this money. When this amount was written into the 2011 state budget, it was prematurely written there. There were no foundations by then and, as we all know, they still do not exist. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs twice gave the Riigikogu the opportunity to move this money to other costs, during and after the state budget procedure, and for the second time last autumn, when the Riigikogu held three reading discussions on the draft amendment of the State Budget Act. The Riigikogu did not want to take this opportunity; the Riigikogu did not want to take this money away from the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, although it was clear that the foundations desired would not come in this form. What am I supposed to conclude as a simple Minister of Foreign Affairs? I concluded that it is the will of the Riigikogu that this money should remain in the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in support of democracy. As far as the overall amounts are concerned, this year's budget provides for an increase in the amount of development cooperation compared to the previous year. In that sense, the trend is right.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U68	Thank you. I will conclude the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U69	We're going to the next question. Heljo Pikhof asks Prime Minister Andrus Ansi about improving the gender balance in the boards of listed companies. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U70	Thank you. Prime Minister! You are certainly familiar with a number of studies which show that the participation of women in corporate governance bodies improves the economic performance of companies, as it helps to pay more attention to customer satisfaction and to take greater account of the diversity of demand and the social responsibility of companies. That is precisely what we are talking about, in the name of economic results, the monitoring of gender balance in management decisions in the European Union. The initiator here was Viviane Reding, a representative of the right-wing party. Have you recently changed your view of the world and no longer consider the economic performance of companies to be important? After all, in the European Parliament, where the original report was discussed, the right-wing parties have also approved it, but somehow our government has not done so.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U71	Thank you. I am sure, as you think, that the good financial performance of companies is important. I know that all the 11 stock exchange companies that you mentioned could have been involved in the discussions in Estonia. As far as I am aware, none of these listed companies were interested in numerical gender quotas, including for example a company with 40% female members on board. All the companies that would have been affected by the Viviane Reding proposal gave priority to the competence of those appointed to the councils. They expressly opposed the selection of the members of the Governing Council on the basis of any other characteristics.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U72	Thank you. Please, Heljo Pikhof, a more specific question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U73	Thank you. Prime Minister! The explanatory memorandum to the draft directive states that although the rules of preference laid down in the directive apply only to candidates with equal suitability, competence and professional capacity, the perception that a woman has become a member of the Council because of a quota may become widespread in society, not because of her skills, knowledge and experience. Aren't you afraid that if women are not at all in the leadership level, the perception that women cannot manage and do not have the skills, knowledge or experience to do so may continue to spread in society? I think this is a good example of Estonian Air, which does not have women in the Council. If there were, maybe there would be another situation right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U74	Yes, I am pleased that at least one viable solution has been found to the problems of Estonian Air. We're considering this very seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U75	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter, the matter registered on the spot!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U76	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! Estonia has been very eager to transpose, transpose and implement all the recommendations and directives of the European Union. On Monday, when you answer questions, you found that there could be more female ministers in your government. My question is why you are afraid of implementing this directive. Can we not set an example by naming the members of the Soviets so that there are representatives of both sexes?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U77	Thank you. The directive does not directly concern state-owned companies. Ministers shall appoint the members of these councils. Precepting ministers is much easier than invading private business and dictating private companies to what parameters the board of directors must meet.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U78	Thank you. Let us close the debate on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U79	Let's move on to the last, seventh question. Arto Aas has asked Prime Minister Andrus Ansip about human freedom. Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U80	Thank you. Last year, very much was said about the fact that the cartel parties have hijacked democracy, we are suppressing freedom of expression, things are moving in the wrong direction at all, and the USSR is coming right back. At the same time, according to a report by the Fraser Institute, one of Estonia's most free countries in the world has recently appeared, and we are in the ninth place in that table. We have received maximum points for freedom of expression, freedom to join different collectives, etc. So where does the truth lie? What does the Prime Minister think about personal freedom and economic freedom in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U81	Thank you. Objective measurements unequivocally confirm that Estonia is a free country. In terms of Internet freedom, Estonia is the most free country in the world for the third year in a row, including the first test year. In terms of freedom of the press, Estonia is the third and fourth place after Finland and Norway, together with the Netherlands. So talking about the silent age is completely inappropriate. The Freedom Index that you have referred to, which takes into account the freedom of citizenship, personal freedom and economic freedom, confirms that Estonia is indeed a free country in terms of both economic freedom and civil freedom. Based on objective parameters, there is no reason to say that democracy has been hijacked in Estonia or that our personal freedom is in some way threatened.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U82	Thank you. Arto Aas, the question to be specified. Very briefly, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U83	It is said that we are now in a fourth position in Europe in terms of economic freedom. Above us are Switzerland, Denmark and Ireland. It seems to me that we could even become a leader in this ranking. Does the government have any plan to increase economic freedom even more so that entrepreneurship flourishes and prosperity grows?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U84	Thank you. Administrative barriers need to be reduced. This would certainly increase entrepreneurial activity and help improve Estonia's position in the index of economic freedom. It is important for our businesses to keep the business and tax environment stable, as well as to reduce the tax burden. I attach particular importance to reducing the tax burden on labour. It has already come true or is coming true this year. The unemployment insurance rate has fallen overall from 4.2% to 3%.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U85	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, we can't ask any more questions. I'm finishing Question Time. Thank you very much to the members of the government and to all those who ask.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U86	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. We will begin the Wednesday session of the first working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. First, it is possible to deliver drafts and enquiries. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U87	Ladies and gentlemen, Six members of the Central Party Group have signed an inquiry to Minister of Social Affairs Taavi Rõivas. The issue of questioning is the availability of services for disabled people. I understand that I cannot read the content here in two minutes, but I will read a few questions that have been asked in an inquiry. We want to know the following from the Minister. Does the Ministry of Social Affairs have any information on how many people are currently in line for rehabilitation? How many people with special needs will the availability of rehabilitation services change in 2013? How sufficient does it consider the 2013 state budget resources for the acquisition of technical assistance for people with disabilities to be adequate? According to the explanatory memorandum to the draft law amending the State Budget Act 2012, a total of EUR 6.4 million was allocated last year for the acquisition of technical assistance facilities, while the 2013 state budget provides for only EUR 5.8 million. We would like answers to these questions from the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U88	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U89	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of myself and seven other members of the Riigikogu, I will report to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher, on an inquiry to reduce corruption. Let us remind you that the Minister has always been a great fighter with corruption. In 2005, as Minister of Justice in the Juhan Parts Government, he presented the idea of starting to catch corrupt officials by means of a limit. It reminds me of a few other articles from 2009 when he wrote about how corruption should be combated. He even prepared a whole package consisting of five parts. However, having been the Minister of the Interior for two years, he has in no strange way been able to realise any ideas at that time. We want to know why such a failure has happened. On the basis of this, we ask a lot of questions, hoping for answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U90	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted two inquiries. If they comply with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward them to the addressees without delay. Let's go to the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: the Government of the Republic. a Draft Law on Legal Aid, the Law on state fees, the Code of Civil Procedure and related amendments to other laws initiated on 14 January, the commission of which is the Committee on Legal Affairs; in the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act and the Advertising Act, initiated on 14 January, of which the commission is the Committee on Legal Affairs; the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on Amendment of the Chemicals Act, initiated on 14 January, of which the commission is the Committee on the Environment, of the Government of the Republic. a Draft Hunting Act, initiated on 14 January, of which the commission is the Committee on the Environment, of the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on the Administrative Division of the Estonian Territory, Act on the facilitation of the merger of local government units and Amendment of the Public Transport Act, initiated on 14 January, of which the commission is the Rural Affairs Committee; in the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act amending the Law implementing the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union of 14 January, of which the commission is the Committee on Rural Affairs; the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on Insurance Activities, initiated on 14 January, and related amendments to other laws, of which the commission is the Committee on Economic Affairs; in the Government of the Republic. a draft law amending the Commercial Maritime Law and the State Fees Act, initiated on 14 January, of which the commission is the Committee on Economic Affairs; the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on the Grant of International Protection to Aliens, initiated on 14 January, and related amendments to other laws, of which the commission is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; members of the Riigikogu in Tõnis Lukas, Andres Herkel and Juku-Kalle Raidi. a Draft Act amending the Riigikogu Election Act, initiated on 14 January, whose commission is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; the Group of the Estonian Central Party. a draft law amending the Citizenship Act, initiated on 15 January, of which the commission is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The President of the Riigikogu has forwarded enquiries from the Riigikogu member Mikhail Stalnukhin to the Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher and the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. Due to the resignation of a member of the Riigikogu, Tõnis Lukas, is located in s. From 21 January 2004 Mikhail Lotman, an alternate member of the Riigikogu. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 78 members of the Riigikogu have registered as presently present, missing 23.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U91	Let us move on to today's agenda items. Yesterday we failed to discuss the first reading of the draft Act amending the VAT Act initiated by the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. I ask Yana Toomi, a member of the Riigikogu, as the representative of the initiators, to continue to ask questions to the rapporteur. The questions registered yesterday are on Mikhail Stalnukhin, Eldar Efendiev and Helmen Küt. Please, Yana Toom! And please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U92	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, Yesterday at one o'clock, when we paused to introduce this bill, there was about a seventh of the Riigikogu in the hall. So most of the members of the Riigikogu are likely to know quite poorly what we are talking about and what we are trying to achieve. Will you be so good and briefly explain what our proposal is?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U93	Thank you! Yes, you're right, Mikhail! Although it is said that everyone in this house is constantly listening to what is happening in the hall, I will explain the matter with two sentences. The point is that during the previous session, we failed to adopt the draft that we tabled, which provided for the restoration of the funeral allowance lost during the crisis, with a promise made at the time of the cut to restore this support later. We therefore now come up with a proposal to reduce the VAT rate on funeral goods and services from 20% to 9%, which would give a financial victory. Given that the average so-called funeral services package in Estonia is about 700 euros, the monetary victory would be 65 euros. That is the content of our proposal: to reduce VAT on funeral services to 9%.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U94	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U95	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! The socio-economic situation, poverty and high prices are causing problems in society, more specifically in the economic field. That's what you were talking about when we drafted this bill. Can you give an example that would prove that? That would be very necessary, because some people do not know what will happen if we do not solve this problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U96	Thank you for this question. These are sensitive personal data. I have some letters and some reports on specific cases. Last time we talked about the funeral allowance, I read a statement from a gentleman who refused to bury his daughter. It was a resident of Sillamäe. The daughter had lived abroad for about 20 years, then she came back, got sick and died, but the parents didn't have the money to bury her. They wrote a statement to the local government that they would not do so due to a lack of money. I can't imagine what kind of hell these people are living in, I mean the moral dimension here. Yesterday I was talking about the fact that all Estonian crematoriums are in trouble because their shelves are full of unsold urns with cremated people. People get their folks cremated, but they don't have the money to buy out these urns. I think it's immoral, to put it mildly.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U97	Thank you. Please, Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U98	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, thank you very much. Yesterday, you presented such convincing and thorough explanations of the bill. Municipalities are constantly confronted with people turning to municipalities for support to organise funerals. In fact, local governments have increased the money paid for grants. That's my question. The view of the government or ministry is that this change will cause very luxurious funeral expenses. I don't think the crematorium fire's gonna make it any stronger, poor or rich. But have local governments and associations of local governments turned to this problem? Do you have any information as to whether EMOVL or the Estonian Cities Association have submitted appeals?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U99	Thank you! Unfortunately, I owe you an answer. No major organisations have approached me, but I have contacted myself and I have been contacted by many municipalities who are concerned about this matter. As I was saying, the idea began at Sillamäe, where we went to social services to talk. Then I called through the districts of Tallinn. For example, in northern Tallinn, I was told of many cases of people being forced to take fast loans in order to arrange funerals. This is the beginning of the economic decline of their families. That's a very big problem. I do not really believe that this debate is behind the fact that no major organisations have turned to anything. But I think if I ask them, and I'm sure I'll do it, I'll get the answer, that's the problem.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U100	Thank you. Please, Aivar Sõerd!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U101	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! Can you introduce us to the studies that give rise to your claims that you have made in this report? In particular, I am interested in the argument that the VAT amendment will be passed on to the final price of more than EUR 65 in the case of a service costing EUR 700. That's not how I get it. Experience in other countries shows that VAT exemptions are won by service providers or sellers, not by consumers. The VAT exemption is not normally passed on to the final price, as shown by the practice in other countries. But would you be so kind as to introduce us to the studies on which your claims are based?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U102	Thank you for that question, Mr Sõerd. You probably have some other plan to alleviate the situation of people who are overpaid for funeral services. Our logic also tells us yesterday that if we lower the VAT rate on these services and items, this should be reflected in the price of the service. This is the mechanism that would actually help lower the price. I agree to argue with you. But I am also waiting for your proposal on what we should do with these families.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U103	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Grief Dam!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U104	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, I have the same question. How do you guarantee that, if VAT is reduced, the service provider will not sneak back at an old price in a couple of or three months on the basis of any arguments? The state's just gonna lose the tax, and I think that's it. We're living in a very unique time right now. When we listen to the radio or read the news, we see and hear everyone get behind the price of electricity to raise their own prices. Behind it, I think, a couple or three more years. This is completely irresponsible behaviour. I think that if the rate of income tax or some other tax were to be reduced now, prices would soon return to their previous level, the state would simply lose its money. Where is the guarantee that this EUR 65 will be kept by the consumer? I don't see any guarantees.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U105	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U106	Thank you for this question. You see, for nothing, a number of countries have not reduced VAT on essential goods, children's goods or foodstuffs. This mechanism works all over the world. If it does not work in Estonia, then we in the Riigikogu must see how to create this guarantee. That's why the Riigikogu is here. This is just the first reading of the bill. We need to invent a way for this guarantee to exist and work. We just can't do it any other way.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U107	Thank you. In a large number of European countries, VAT on food, disability and dental care is lower, not to mention accommodation services and everything else. In a large number of countries VAT has been reduced for the repair of bicycles, shoes and clothing, as well as for the provision of hairdressing services and even window washing. These data are beautifully published in Postimees. How do you describe a country that doesn't even have mercy on the bereaved? We withdraw the funeral allowance, we raise the value added tax on funeral services, and everyone says numbly that the company would take the change anyway. Are our entrepreneurs really that crazy and unethical?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U108	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U109	Thank you! I don't want to get rude, good Marika, so I'm not going to describe anything here, if you'll excuse me. However, I remembered the sentence from Jürgen Ligi's letter, which I quoted yesterday. He claims that if we lower VAT, only consumers of luxury goods - in this case, luxury crematorium, luxury coffin or whatever - will benefit from it. This is a very strange thought, I think.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U110	Thank you. To begin with, I will make a small comment on the thoughts that have come out of colleagues in the Reform Party. I'm saying you can only cheat on someone who lets you cheat on him. The question, however, is as follows. Here, several times, the sentence was that lowering the VAT rate would not lead to the depreciation of goods. Using a formal logic, this means that changing VAT will not change the price of the goods and, if we go on, we can say that the increase in VAT will not make the goods more expensive. Everyone in this room is gonna realize there's something wrong with it. Can you comment on the claim that if VAT goes down, the price remains the same?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U111	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Lein Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U112	Thank you for this question. Actually, there's a little misguided logic here. When our honourable ministers talk about excise duties or VAT, it is said that we have a very low tax burden and consumers do not pay for this tax increase. At the moment, the opposite argument is that it is the consumer who is paying for it. We should still determine our position: whether it is beautiful or wise, it is not possible to be both, if you recall an old anecdote. I agree with Marika and we have discussed this in the group as well, as you know, the reduction in VAT will bring down the price. If this does not happen, then the country will have to look at what it is about, and even if it is discussed, perhaps to set some limit prices for certain groups of goods, otherwise we will just let this thing go.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U113	Thank you, good manager. Dear waitress, We have all been around the world, and we have certainly been to Ireland, where VAT on food products is zero, but for some reason these goods are several times more expensive there than in Estonia. So where does the logic come from? If there were some sort of pan-European price scale, for example, that funeral services in Europe cost an average of EUR 600, then we could compare. But we can't compare at all now. The same window-washing and hairdressing services are also, let's say, several times more expensive in more advanced countries than in Estonia, even though they have lower VAT there. VAT on all services in Estonia is 18%. Where, however, does the guarantee come from that if we reduce VAT on funeral services by either 10% or 11%, the price will soon not go back to the previous level? There is no guarantee of this because there is always a reason to increase the price.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U114	Thank you! You're right, there's always a reason to raise the price. But we have achieved a certain limit. We know that no one increases the price if people do not buy unreasonably expensive goods. If the Estonian people do not use an unreasonablely expensive funeral service, this means that the border is actually there. Otherwise, you'd find that money somewhere, I don't know if you'd earn, borrow or steal to make it happen. Secondly, I find this comparison of prices in different countries to be somewhat incomprehensible. It is worth comparing the so-called big picture, you should look at the incomes, utility payments, the support system, whatever. The fact that the price of cheese in one country is such in another is in fact not a sufficient basis for comparison. We all know that very well. To conclude, once again, it is not for nothing that the government has, from time to time, reduced, for example, the value added tax (VAT) on books, theatre tickets or whatever. It works and it also works in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U115	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U116	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! According to Eurostat, 23.1% of Estonia's people are known to be at risk of poverty and the situation is really bad. Listening to my colleagues' questions, it turns out that if VAT is less than 20%, the difference will certainly be asked by the consumer. But if the VAT on books in Estonia is now 9%, can we conclude that this book is actually 11% more expensive because 9 plus 11 gives a total of 20? Can we conclude that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U117	Thank you. Please, Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U118	Thank you, Tarmo! But if you want an answer by the logic of the coalition representatives, you're still gonna have to ask them.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U119	Question: has this arrogance spread to Estonian society?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U120	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! Europe's culture of all nations over the centuries has been characterised by great respect for its ancestors, its predecessors. The importance of funeral traditions has always been high. Richard Villems, President of the Estonian Academy of Sciences, has pointed out that this attitude has changed in the last century, has come up with arrogance and disrespect for ancestors and funeral traditions. He explained this by the fact that in some countries people are fascinated by statistical progress in the dark because never in previous centuries as much of humanity has been alive at once as it is now. In some cases, therefore, the idea of immortality arises. At the beginning of the 19th century, less than a percent of the people who had ever lived, now...
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U121	Question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U122	Thank you for this question. I would not like to say badly about Estonian society. The Prime Minister stated an hour ago in this board that Estonia's wealth is growing, but I was thinking about this bill. I didn't want to say it out of this remote control, but now I'm gonna say it. When two people are sometimes cremated in the crematorium to save money at once, and then the ashes are shaken into two urns, it is our fault, colleagues.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U123	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U124	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good Yana! In this hall, there is always the claim that if VAT is reduced, the merchant will definitely take the difference. However, this is not the case, it is simply wanted to be seen in this way. In fact, competition would also put food products in place, or wholesale or retail companies could not agree, for example, on the price of milk. But that's it. That's my question. What is the situation in the other Baltic countries, whether funeral goods have different value added tax (VAT) or have some benefits? Have you seen it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U125	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thanks a lot, Yana Toom! I would like to ask Kadri Simson, Member of the Monetary Committee, for a co-presentation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U126	Thank you, Esther! I really do owe you an answer on VAT. However, I do know that both Lithuania and Latvia have full support for funerals.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U127	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Finance Committee discussed the draft Act amending the VAT Act, initiated by the Estonian Central Party Group, at its meeting on 6 December 2012. At the meeting of the Commission, Kadri Simson, representative of the initiators, presented the draft. The President of the Department of Customs and Excise Policy of the Ministry of Finance, Marek Uusküla, presented the Government's opinion and answered related questions. The Government of the Republic had decided not to support the draft at its meeting on 8 November 2012. To clarify, a letter signed by a member of the government, Jürgen Ligi, stated that under the current VAT law, the value added tax (VAT) for funeral goods and services is the standard rate. Until the end of 2008, funeral goods and services were taxed at a reduced VAT rate of 5%, but the amendment to the VAT Act, which reduced the number of goods and services subject to the reduced VAT rate from 1 January 2009, is based on the basic principles of Estonian tax policy, which is a simple tax system, a wide tax base and few exceptions. The trend of EU tax policy is also to limit the number of exemptions. VAT is a general consumption tax on income to the state budget, not a social policy instrument. VAT exemptions distort competition, are always unfair to anyone and do not have the desired effect. If the reduced rate is applied, those who buy more expensive goods or services will receive a higher advantage, and those who do not actually need State support will also be beneficiaries. Tax exemptions increase tax risk and tax administration costs. Grants must be needs-based, and direct aid to those in need is an effective measure to alleviate social problems. Thus, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi wrote to the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu, explaining the reasons why the draft law that would have reduced the VAT on funeral services and supplies was not supported. The Commission's discussion focused in particular on the following issues: It was found that the most prosperous consumers who could buy more expensive goods or services would benefit from the VAT credit. A reduction in the VAT rate may not lead to a change in the final price of the service. This is the view that has now been expressed in this Chamber, too, by those who do not support the reduction in VAT. It was said that the tax relief would be granted to a taxable person who had no direct interest in bringing the service down. Even assuming that the seller lowers the price, the question arises as to whether the 11% discount is still helpful to those in need or whether such a decrease in the price of funeral services is not sufficient to solve the problem of not being able to bury their own. There was also a question of what alternatives could be available instead of reducing the VAT rate, which would help the people most in need in particular. The initiator of the draft act explained that, before the proposal to reduce VAT, the Central Party Group has proposed a draft law amending the National Death Allowance Act in the Chamber of the Riigikogu, which would have restored the funeral allowance lost in 2009. However, the government did not support such a restoration of funeral support. Issues related to the possible implementation of the amendment and the administrative burden were suspended. There was an interest in delimiting funeral bills and services that could be offered cheaper by companies that are involved in organising funerals. Interested in whether there was ever a specific list of funeral services and items in Estonian history. Such a finance minister's regulation existed at a time when funeral services and supplies had been reduced to a VAT rate of 5%. It was signed by Minister of Finance Siim Kallas and entered into force on 1 January 2002. It identified funeral services and supplies subject to reduced VAT rates: coffins, urns, burial documents and funeral services, the conclusion of a funeral contract during the client's lifetime, if charged with a service fee, the use of a cold chamber, work related to the cleaning of the deceased, grave digging, burial, burial, decoration of the grave, bells of mourning, use of the wake of the bereaved house and the mourning house, arrangement of the funeral place, rental of funeral goods, the organisation of a mourning service (specifying that it is a speaker and transport workers, and the purchase of burial spaces), transport of the deceased and funeral goods, decoration of funeral goods, musical service of funerals, writing of songs and mourning notices, cremation services and the payment of burial ground. This is a list of 21 services and consumption. This finance minister's regulation was in force until 30 April 2004, which was subsequently withdrawn. It was also discussed whether the cost of the draft proposed by the initiators, if a lower VAT rate is imposed on funeral services and supplies, is correct and where the money comes from. The amount of expenditure proposed in the explanatory memorandum is estimated, but can also be based on the calculations made by the Ministry of Finance in 2009. In fact, these calculations were carried out by the Ministry of Finance in 2008 when it was decided to increase VAT on 1 January 2009. At the time, it was pointed out that raising VAT on funeral goods or services from 5% to 18% brings additional income to the state budget of EEK 16 million a year. We are currently in the euro area and VAT could not be reduced from 18% to 5%, because the VAT rate of 5% no longer exists, but could be reduced to 9%. The initiator of the draft act has suggested that the cost from this could be EUR 1 million, which is basically as high as the amount won by the increase in the funeral services tax to the state budget in the financial year 2009. In summary, it is important to distinguish between two issues, which may have a similar objective, but which are fundamentally different in nature. These issues are the introduction of a tax exemption and support for those in need. In the Commission's debate, the statement of the IRL and Reform Party that a reduction in the VAT rate is an inefficient way to cover the costs of organising a funeral. At the same time, it was said that this was an important issue, and if it can be demonstrated that there really is a problem with burying loved ones somewhere, then it should be examined whether the funeral allowance should be universal support paid to everyone, or whether it should depend on the actual need for assistance. It was also found that the issues relating to funeral support are out of the competence of the Committee on Monetary Affairs and fall within the remit of the Social Affairs Committee. The debate was closed by a vote. The proposal to conclude the first reading of the draft was not supported by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. There were 4 Commission members in favour, 5 against and 1 abstention. The proposal of the lead committee is therefore to reject the draft at first reading. On 6 December, the Commission decided that the Commission's rapporteur was Taavi Rõivas, who, a few days later, became Minister for Social Affairs. This problem falls within, by the way, exactly the competence of this ministry. The day before yesterday, the Committee on Monetary Affairs decided to appoint a new co-rapporteur. Here I stand before you now to shed light on the debate in the Commission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U128	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U129	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! Thank you for this excellent overview. At least it is understandable that this issue was discussed seriously and for a long time. People seem to understand the nature of the problem. But my question relates to VAT. Has it suddenly been discussed in the Commission that reduced VAT has no effect on other occasions, such as books or other goods? Is there perhaps a plan to increase VAT on these goods?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U130	Indeed, the reduced VAT rate from 1 January 2009 was increased so that the full VAT rate was reduced by hazardous waste management, funeral goods and services, performances and concerts. By way of derogation, the reduced VAT rate remained applicable to books and study books, medicines and medical devices, accommodation services and periodicals. At least during this debate in the Commission, no one raised the issue of raising VAT on the media, books, accommodation services or medicines and thereby improving the balance of the state budget. This issue was not raised. There was also no doubt that reduced VAT would have a negative impact on the price of medicines.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U131	Thank you. Please, Marika Tuus-Sing, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U132	Thank you. Kadri! These Commission positions are quite cynical, I am thinking precisely of the views of the members of the coalition. Can these views be read, for example, in the Commission's protocol so that people and journalists can know what the coalition is thinking?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U133	As far as I know, the Committee on Monetary Affairs stands out by the fact that the minutes do not pass on the content of the debate. Therefore, you must be satisfied with the explanations provided by the Commission's co-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U134	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U135	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I understood that on the one hand there was the Reform Party and on the other hand the Members of the Commission of the Fatherland and Res Publica Association agreed that there was a problem and the question was serious, but they themselves did not offer any solutions. I also understood that if, in future, this issue becomes topical again, it will be discussed not by the Committee on Monetary Affairs, but by the Committee on Social Affairs. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U136	Indeed, the contact of the various committees of the Riigikogu with this concern is different. If the Committee on Monetary Affairs is more in favour of decisions that generate additional revenue for the state budget and is very sceptical about tax-degrading decisions, then it is certainly the Committee on Social Affairs that is dealing with the problem that people have had to evade their own burial and give this responsibility to local governments. This is a problem that must be addressed by local authorities. The Committee on Finance had the knowledge that although private funeral grants were abolished on 1 July 2009, support for local authorities remained when they buried an unacquired or unknown person. The question remains whether this is a moral problem when people are forced to disconnect to leave the funeral expenses to the municipality. However, if you ask whether the next such draft would be on the table of the Social Affairs Committee, the answer is rather no, because this issue concerns the VAT law and so far the Board of the Riigikogu has granted all tax changes to the proceedings of the Monetary Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U137	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U138	Thank you, Madam President. Good Commission waitress! I ask you, Kadri, how ethical do you think it is for the state to earn money from the accident of others and thus plan money for the state budget? We imagine that at the end of the year, the Minister of Finance will come here and report that 120% of the VAT was collected on the funeral. It should be welcomed that the country received more money than planned, but this money does not go to support people who need funerals, but it can be said that this money can also go to pay the salaries of the rulers. How ethical do you think that is?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U139	Thank you. Please, Aivar Sõerd, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U140	The victory the state gained from raising VAT on funeral goods and services from 5% to 18% (to date it has been raised to 20%) was very small, broadly less than EUR 1 million. What has been a great expense for people has been a small income for the country. I don't think it was taken directly as a revenue project. Consequently, I believe that the granting of a tax credit or a tax reduction is merely a result of the intention to avoid any specific VAT rates.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U141	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! It's a sensitive subject, and I don't really want to ask about it. But I am still asking over what I asked for in the committee. The ceremonies can be arranged very differently. This is the free choice of the ceremony organiser and there is, of course, nothing to complain about. But it is also possible to order expensive limousines and orchestras from abroad. This is the free choice of the ceremony organiser himself. But why should the State support it through the tax system? Instead, money could be used where the needy really need it. That is the same question I asked in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U142	Another part of the Commission's question was that, in some cases, an abundance of wakes is ordered. At the moment, I read the last valid regulation of the Minister of Finance on how it turned out that catering does not go under funeral services and supplies. So, in any case, the cost of the wake will be borne by those close to the full rate. As regards whether tax reductions can be won more than any other, Estonia has not, until now, at least the Minister of Finance Party has been in favour of this ideology, so that luxury should be subject to additional taxation. Luxury taxation has rather been suppressed. Therefore, there is doubt as to whether funeral services could not be made more tax-efficient, in some ways incomprehensible. On the other hand, only families whose loved ones have left the world need funeral support. In this sense, it can be said that no one who really does not need it will receive this support. It is said that priority is given to necessity. At present, however, no one seems to meet the requirements of necessity. At present, only the person in whom everyone renounces their kinship can receive "need-based support." It's not quite European. However, as regards the fear that some services will be overexploited, such as an overglorious funeral car, this can be prevented by the Minister of Finance's regulation laying down a list of services to be taken into account as funeral services with a lower VAT rate.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U143	Thank you. Please, Kalle Palling!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U144	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! We're actually talking about re-establishing a tax exemption here. You previously listed the other areas that have been taxed in Estonia at different VAT rates, including periodicals, books, accommodation services, etc. What is your personal position, whether these exceptions are justified and what should be done with them?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U145	I remember this debate in this Chamber of Riigikogu, when VAT was raised, it was raised at a very short notice, and some goods and services were removed from the exceptions. There was no explanation of why some of the exceptions were abolished, other than that the state budget was going through difficult times and that additional resources had to be earned. I cannot say why the exemption for accommodation services is fairer than for funeral services. This comparison was not discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. As I said before, it was not discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs that some of the existing exceptions should disappear. Whether one exception could be restored, when the budget is no longer so difficult, was put to the vote: 4 members of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu thought it could be done, 5 thought it was not necessary, and 1 abstained in this reflection.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U146	Thank you. Please, Yana Toom, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U147	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! There have been hints in the ministry's position as well as in the issues that have come from this Reform Party today, as if someone were having a very luxurious funeral, inviting performers from abroad, I don't know, hiring opera singers and whatever. Has the Commission discussed some sort of minimum package of funerals that would set certain costs and certain quality mandatory things, of which spending more would already be a luxury?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U148	If I try to convey the tone of this debate, it must be said that the opinion was rather that the tax exemption would be granted to everyone and that it would be more appropriate to restore the need-based funeral allowance, whatever that means. Unfortunately, the majority of the members of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu had not noticed that the restoration of funeral support in this large hall last year was also under discussion. It was thought that if this proposal were to come, the Committee on Social Affairs could probably develop this idea further so that people who are struggling to send their loved ones away could still get help.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U149	Thank you. Please, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U150	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! With your last sentences, you almost didn't answer my question. I want to be more specific. According to my memory, the Committee on Monetary Affairs was discussing this issue. This draft, which we are dealing with today, is another request for derogation. This request has been expressed by the Centre Party on a number of other drafts, for example, the treatment of the price of heat and electricity. The Centre Party wants to create exceptions that would extend to everyone, regardless of their income. In my opinion, there was also talk in the Committee on Monetary Affairs on the issue of looking at how help can still reach the people who need it. The bill, which is on the tables today and which we are discussing, extends to everyone regardless of income. Is that right?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U151	Indeed, on the basis of the very comprehensive memo of the congresses of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which I have been given here on the remote control, I can say that those who were sceptical about tax reductions expressed hope that an alternative should be found to help cover the costs of organising a funeral so that the support would reach the real need for help. As I answered the previous question, it would appear that there would be greater support for the proposal to restore the death grant in a specific form, not in a mere form, but on the basis of a statement, for example. This support would probably be higher if the draft was dealt with by the Committee on Social Affairs, which is already much more closely exposed to this issue in its own field alone than, above all, the Committee on Monetary Affairs, which attaches importance to budgetary balance.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U152	Thank you. Please, Esther Tuiksoo, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U153	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good waitress Kadri! I understand, of course, that the representatives of the coalition have concerns about the lack of luxury, because in this case not all the taxes that the state budget needs will be collected. We haven't had any of those problems. We meet people who usually complain that they can't get their own soil or that it's too expensive. What you said was that needs-based funeral allowance was discussed in the committee. Were we talking about deadlines? Could the coalition come up with such a proposal this year, or is it planned again, for example, to 2015?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U154	Thank you. In the Commission, no one hinted that the coalition would come up with such a draft. Rather, the problem was that the government does not want to tax funeral services and equipment at a lower rate of VAT, and does not want to reduce VAT on these services and supplies from 20% to 9%. But when it comes to a problem, alternatives could be considered. They probably don't come from the government, at least they didn't make it, but I don't know. After all, Taavi Rõivas, who is now in such a position to be the spokesperson for restoring the funeral allowance, was also present at the debate. Perhaps in the last month that has passed the debate on the substance of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, some initiatives and alternatives have already begun to be considered. There was no alternative offer in the Committee on Finance; the draft was simply not supported.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U155	Thank you. Please, Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U156	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I think there are two things in a person's life that should be taken seriously: coming into this world and going out of this world. I am sorry that there is a situation in our country where people's last road is full of problems. It is a pity that we here cannot find this little money in national terms to help those people who have spent the last few days with a loved one who has left our world. But, good colleague, where do you think this tantrum is coming from?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U157	I don't know where that tantrum comes from. As a member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, I can simply state the fact that very often the votes of the Committee on Monetary Affairs end at 6: 5 or 5: 6. This shows the relationship between the coalition and the opposition. This time the vote ended as such: 5 in favour, 4 against and 1 abstention. It should be mentioned that whoever was absent from the committee was a representative of the opposition. So at least one member of the coalition made the problem think when it comes to his voting behaviour.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U158	Thank you. Please, Sven Sester, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U159	Thank you, Madam President. Good waitress! I listened to these last questions, where 40 seconds of one minute actually went to series and irony. I will also take this opportunity to express my opinion within 45 seconds, and then I will ask you quickly at the end. I have this feeling, and there have also been opinions in the Commission that such derogations do not aim or support the idea that is set for. Forty-five seconds have passed now. I would like to say whether there was a debate in the Commission on how to proceed with the various drafts in a way that would bring this aid to the needy. I assume you mean just these people. Or have you really meant everyone?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U160	When we are talking specifically about funeral services and goods, I must say that I have not been present at the meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs where a few steps back on the 2008 cut would have been discussed in order to restore funeral support. As far as I know, this plan has not been on the table of the Committee on Monetary Affairs. If you ask whether any of the exceptions have recently found support from the Committee on Monetary Affairs, such as the VAT exemption for room or funeral services, this has not been the case. It is not desirable to make these essential services or goods cheaper in this way and no alternative has been offered.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U161	No further questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Kadri Simson. Is there a desire to negotiate? Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U162	Madam President! In fact, I had no intention of coming here, but I listened to this debate, which was actually very interesting and substantive, and I want to share a few points with you. One thought was given to me by my penguin Eldar, who said that we are so strongly supporting birth in Estonia, but we could also support funerals. All the more so (this was not said by Eldar, it is already my own idea, perhaps a little bit of how I say, pessimistic, but still) that we are going to have funerals more often than births. Our society is old and aging. It is said that in 2020, one in four people in Estonia will be over 65 years old. This is what we as politicians should be thinking about. That's one thing. The second thing is that I understood very clearly from the debate that it is not right to talk about it as if the Centre Party were trying to invent some kind of tax exemption, because these tax exemptions already exist. The practice also proves that this exception works in order to establish the final price. One more thing. You know I'm a journalist from my background. It is obvious why we do not think of raising VAT on media publications to 20%. Because it is media lobbying that no Member, Parliament or government can overcome. But the dead don't have that kind of lobbying. These are people who have either left or those who are just so devastated by this sad event that they cannot lobby. So it's still our job to look at this problem and somehow solve it. Therefore, as a naive enough member of the Riigikogu, I ask you to support this bill! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U163	Thank you. Please, Sven Sester!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U164	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, My speech, too, has not been prepared in advance and is rather motivated by the discussion that was in the Chamber. I think that such discussions are good, constructive and develop precisely in this context, that they convey what we think and why we think so. If there's something left unsaid, you can come here with a remote control and finally say it all. I want to talk once about this topic more widely, not only about the VAT on funeral goods, but also about the various exceptions, because at one point our talk tended to make exceptions at all. I want to talk about two things: exceptions as such and those to whom these exceptions should be intended.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U165	Good waitress, I'll cut you off for a minute. In fact, there is a festive moment coming. Our guest, the President of the Seim of the Republic of Poland, is arriving at the balcony with the President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! We have the honour to welcome the Chairman of the Seim of the Republic of Poland, his Excellency Ewa Kopacz! [[Let's hear it.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue the sitting. Please, waitress, continue your call!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U166	Thank you. Life will show whether or not Poland has the same problems and what they are discussing exactly now. It took at least a minute or a half of my time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U167	Yeah, we're counting on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U168	Very good! Speaking of exceptions, you have given the example that some exceptions still exist. True story, but this list of exceptions has been progressively shortened over time. A number of exceptions have actually disappeared (mainly VAT exemptions). I think that the tendency should rather be not to create exceptions but to reduce their number. You pointed out why there has been no reduction in the value added tax (VAT) for the press. I don't know what that is. The subject of VAT on books and a number of other issues are certainly still on the table. But when we say that the tendency should be towards reducing exceptions, my personal opinion is that this is the right direction. There are currently a wide range of exceptions, VAT exemptions and different levels of taxation in the old Europe. They make it very difficult, indeed very difficult, to manage and understand this system. Rather, the old Europe is moving towards reducing exceptions. It's hard because when we talk about six, seven, ten exceptions, there's tens of them. Reducing them is not easy. I think that we should rather move in such a way that there are as few exceptions as possible so that we can understand as easily as possible what is happening around us both in tax policy and in the whole tax ideology. The second thing I wanted to talk about is who should have the various grants for. After all, this bill is written out of the desire to help people who have problems sending away loved ones and loved ones because they simply do not have financial support. That is the problem that has prompted this bill. Unfortunately, it often turns out that the desire has been one, but it turns out differently. That was the case with this bill. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U169	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U170	If this draft were to become a law (I am not talking about one exception coming back, we would leave it aside), then it would be extended to everyone. I'm also ignoring whether or not it's sometimes luxury cars, I'm not talking about it right now. I am saying that this exception extends to everyone. I do not think that the aim of the country should be to impose subsidies on all people. Why do you want to do this? What for? What is your purpose? I think the aim should be for the support to come to whoever needs it. Do not be ashamed of the concept of necessity as such. The word itself tells the content: necessity means that it is the one who needs it that gets the support. Don't be shy. We have also held this discussion during the state budget procedure. I would like us to start thinking in this context that public money does not hang on a tree, it does not just come from anywhere. Every step that the state takes is linked to some costs. I agree that the state must help those in need when those in need can no longer cope. As they say, every parish must feed its cripples. The state has to help, but it has to help those who have problems. Dear friends, this bill creates an opportunity for everyone to benefit from the exception. I don't think that's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U171	Thank you very much. Any more calls? No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. Since the proposal of the commission was to reject the bill 292, we must vote through it. We're preparing for the vote. (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am voting to reject the draft proposal of the commission of lading 292. Please take a stand and vote. 47 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 30 against, with no abstentions. Draft 292 has been rejected at first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U172	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act initiated by the Group of Deniss Borodichi, Inara Luigas, Lembit Kaljuvee, Rainer Vakra and the Social Democratic Party. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of a member of the Riigikogu, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U173	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, First of all, I will briefly present the content of the draft and then speak a little bit more deeply about its background and background. Now the contents. The aim of the draft is to ease the transition of household and business customers to an open electricity market in 2013. To this end, we proposed to amend the electricity market law in such a way that the cost of financing renewable energy support would be borne by the state instead of the consumer. The third trading period of the EU greenhouse gas emission allowance trading scheme will be implemented from 1 January 2013. Under the Directive, Member States shall auction all allowances which are not allocated free of charge in accordance with Articles 10a and 10c. According to this directive, Estonia will have the opportunity to receive money for allowances. The real content of our proposal is that the money from the sale of allowances is not spent in the budget on the second, third or fourth, but specifically on renewable energy charges. The adoption of this draft as a law (although it has been proposed by the Commission to reject it) requires a majority of votes in favour. The terms used in the draft act are guaranteed to comply with EU law. Now the bill in financial terms. According to Elering's figures, the renewable energy fee is about 70 million euros this year, compared to 69.4 million euros last year. So, there's not much growth to be expected here. If we submitted this draft to the Committee on Economic Affairs, it would have been calculated at this point that EUR 77,64 million would have been obtained from the sale of emission units. So much for the content of the draft. Now, background and background. I also presented this draft in the Commission. The first keyword here is the price of electricity. I think the word pair 'electricity price' sounded the most, perhaps, from the hall, from this remote control, and from the government representatives last year. Indeed, the price of electricity to our households and businesses is a very serious challenge, not only today, but also tomorrow. This was also a serious test in previous years. If we look at the energy policy of this and the previous government and at all the energy activities, it turns out that this has been very cruel and rational. This is in the sense that the government and Eesti Energia have actually worked towards increasing the price of electricity. State policy has been to increase the price of electricity so that it increases most rapidly in the region and is now what it is, so that both our industrial users and domestic consumers pay the highest price in the region. So that what I'm saying doesn't just leave empty words, I'm gonna start explaining it, starting with electricity generation, and then I'm gonna get to distribution, consumption and taxation. If we start from production, we have to say that we have worked very hard to develop the entire energy line, we have spent all our money. We build new stations in our home country, we build something in America and Jordan, we build new capacities, we build oil production capacities, we build a power plant, we build windmills, we build hydropower plants, we build cogeneration plants. We're building. It all takes money. Where's the money coming from? It comes from the consumer, either from the consumer or from the producer, but it comes from the consumer. There's a lot of money coming in there, I can tell you, smart, but not always smart. That's one reason why the price of electricity is what it is. The second reason is as follows. What did we do? We split the power grid into two companies. We have a core network, or Elering, and a distribution network. Both networks are closing in on money. They build nets, mostly smart, but sometimes stupid. I've talked a lot about the gold nets, the stupid substations, which are extremely expensive and, in fact, a lot of nonsense. There's top automatics inside, and Aunt Maal's expensive cables go like this, so the money shouldn't have been crammed into that network. Or we could take Elering. I've been talking to Javier. In the meantime, he was even mad at me. Why such large investments and such procurement, wouldn't it have been different? Of course, you can invest on a broad chest. Märt Ots doesn't look at the technical solutions in his department, he makes sure there's an investment like this or something like that, let's get through it. And the price goes up. Nets have not been price increases by a few percentage points, but prices have increased by at least 11%, 14%, 16%, 17%. If you charge your home electricity bill, you'll see that the transmission fees are the highest. We pay more than 40% of the transfer fee. That's the cost of those nets. They would have really been so-called smart investments, but there's too much stupidity in there. This foolishness, however, is finally reflected in the price. We're heading for the country. The Centre Party has arranged pleasant nights here, made the coalition sit here at night, and the journalists go along the wall. But what did they fight for? After all, the renewable energy charge is twice as high as that part of the excise duty. When we look at the bill, we see that the renewable energy charge is twice as high as the excise duty. Many European countries do not charge their customers for renewable energy. These countries are in our neighbourhood, there are also countries in Central and Southern Europe. Once again, we see that our electricity is the most expensive in the region, both for the household and for the industrial consumer. This has been the case for industrial users for several years. That is why after Estonian Cell, companies with high electricity consumption have not come to Estonia, and they are not coming. Consider, for example, the woodworkers. I've told you from this remote control that Stora Enso has nine factories from the Arctic Ocean to Poland. Where's the electricity most expensive? In Estonia. If they start thinking about where to invest, they will not come to Estonia. This is because electricity accounts for a very large share of their costs. What do people do? It's speculation in some ways, but when the price of electricity is high, people go elsewhere. Some may have left Estonia for this reason. Let's take the excise now. This is half as low as the renewable energy fee, but still four and a half times as high as the European Union's requirements. At the same time, VAT and renewable energy charges have increased. We've put more into production, near-networks and taxes, not a little bit, but still with a scoop or a shovel. We have also built transmission networks, not only internal but also external. At the same time, electricity is the most expensive on the Estonian market (I cannot tell you the state of today). This is because, in principle, we do not buy electricity from Russia, although European laws allow third countries to buy electricity from the left side of the stock market. We're not doing this. Whether it's right or wrong, it's a matter of its own. This is now, let's say, one of the background reasons that we've gone with great enthusiasm to reconstruct and rebuild our energy system. We have started dealing with this in our own country and we have been experimenting and quite serious and in many ways incomprehensible spending abroad. All attempts by the opposition to explain that we should not be so powerful in heating up the price of electricity have run into the sand. Apparently, the opposition here has made mistakes, he hasn't been able to make it right. But the real consequence is that our electricity prices are the most expensive in the region. At some point, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Minister realized that renewable energy was being misplaced. Now they've been trying to ease things up. At first they did it with stories, then with the bill. The draft has been discussed in this Chamber. This would, to a certain extent, reduce injustice. But our draft would give a serious signal that the state, the government too, wants to be responsible for this and make life easier and easier for consumers. The increase in electricity prices is very harsh. That it's very harsh, you can give examples of that. Today, some authorities have already said so in the press. The National Library says that the money allocated to it by the budget to pay for electricity will run out in April, given the price they currently buy. It is planned that their house will be white and warm until the end of December, but according to the budget allocation, this money will only last until the end of April. It's not just a national library problem. I think that many authorities and municipalities are facing this problem in the spring and have to think about what will happen after Midsummer Day. Here much depends on how the budget will be implemented, but the price of electricity will have serious consequences for our municipalities and businesses. Why did we come up with this bill, and why are we proposing the money from the sale of emission allowances as a solution? Estonia produced four times as much CO2 20 years ago. We're actually going to continue the same so-called line that I said we're going to build stations, fix things and make them better. The industry has reorganized itself and become cleaner and more environmentally friendly. We have reduced the share of allowances four times. In Europe, a fist is punched in the chest when it is done at 20%. We've done this four times in 20 years. In essence, it would be right that, if we stick together there and want to develop a lot of renewable energy, we put the money that comes from quotas there, we develop windmills and, in my opinion, in some respects, completely pointless hydrostations with no power are just a cost and only a few families and some owners benefit from it. This should not be put on the consumer. That would be a specific place. The proceeds from the sale of allowances must be used to develop renewable energy production. With this, we would also meet the consumer in this difficult price struggle. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U174	Thank you very much. Please, Tarmo Grief Damm, your question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U175	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, I have a broader question. Will the opposition also coordinate these draft laws that you read here? For example, today's agenda is already €150.160 million from the state budget. I don't know how much Nestor's proposal costs, but it covers over 80,000 people with health insurance. If you continue to do so, it will amount to around EUR 500 million per month. Then it'll take ten months, and it'll be 5 billion out of the state budget. Do you guys look that way, or does everyone come out of their office with a dull face, walks into a remote control and says we're gonna take 70 million, take 77 million, and so on?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U176	The first part of the question was whether the opposition would coordinate its work. In a way, I'm sure. On some issues more, on some issues less. As far as the budget is concerned, this draft was submitted when this year's budget did not officially exist. At that time, it was quite possible to make this proposal, and today it is also possible to make this proposal. I think there will be a lot of calls about electricity prices from this remote control this year, and perhaps even a budgetary change will have to be made. So the opposition can certainly work better and more coordinatedly. It is up to the opposition to make good proposals on what the coalition does not notice.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U177	Thank you. Please, Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U178	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! In your presentation, which I found very interesting, you noted that the highest price in the region was largely caused by wrong or stupid investment decisions made in Elering. As a relatively well-informed person in the system, can you tell who should be responsible for misinvesting public money and putting it in the chimneys?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U179	As for Elering's decisions, maybe I wouldn't say that. I am talking about the distribution network, where very few decisions have been made on small plants and low voltage lines, etc. I think there's money spent a lot more pointless. As far as these cables Estlink 1 and Estlink 2 are concerned, this is a separate issue. Today, I do not dare to judge how much foolishness or wisdom there is in these decisions. The picture itself is that there are huge costs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U180	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Lein Tamm, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U181	Thank you. Lembit! You've been a great expert, and you've been working in this field for decades. Can you tell me how much of this key is actually in the hands of consumers? How much is waste or pointless spending, for example, in households or companies and companies? Is it even measurable or isn't it? I read in the paper that the Prime Minister said that the biggest savings are where the consumer can save himself: if you go out of the room, put out the light.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U182	In this sense, I fully agree with the Prime Minister that this electricity, which is not being spent, costs nothing. Indeed, when we look around, we see that there is a great deal of waste of energy in Estonia. I think it's in every home and company. We should deal with this, too. It should be handled by anyone who is less, who is more. I am not saying that we are not dealing with this, but we have unfortunately been in front of the train to build and invest in the energy system. We have not been able to reverse our consumption habits as much as we have been imposing on them all the time. We tax, we build, we reconstruct and we divide it in such a way that the price gets higher. For example, the insulation of the buildings that the Greens set in motion during the previous composition is welcome and very right. If you go out of the room, you definitely have to put out the fire, there's no point in paying for it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U183	Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U184	Good chairman of the sitting! Good waitress! My question is about the impact of Mr Tarmo Leinatamme's reply on the state budget. I had the impression that the Democrats, along with the Social Democrats, had tabled a draft that did not have a source of cover. I don't think that's the case. There is an impact, but the draft also provides for a source of cover, which, as far as I know, is the sale of emission allowances. The principle is that the state fully regulates the renewable energy policy, allocates money, also generates revenue from the sale of emission allowances, but the consumer pays for this bull. Or do I misunderstand?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U185	I also mentioned these figures when introducing the substance of the bill. Where do these figures come from? They are not coming from the budget, but from the sale of specific units. However, the background to this draft is that we should not put a very radical development of national energy policy on the shoulders of the consumer alone. That's the idea. There really is radical politics in our country, we are not making any exceptions. In Latvia, Lithuania, Finland, at all in European countries, consumers are compartmentalised, different regimes are provided for one, two and three, they are met, etc. We have a black and white approach. We keep putting the money in, the price goes up, and we take the money out of everyone's hands equally. Such radical politics has led us to such a price. Who's suffering from it? Suffering consumers, poor consumers alike, rich consumers alike. Only the poor have nowhere to go, but the rich go to another place. That's the point.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U186	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U187	Thank you. Good colleague! In your speech, you mentioned that the minister and the government realized that this was a miscarriage. My question has to do with this. Do you really think they understood and in the future things will go differently in the electricity market?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U188	I think so. In my opinion, they have understood this from the beginning, and they have not been unconsciously following this path. The government has realized that this is the case, and that's the way we're going. And that's it, straight, straight, straight back, radically. We keep burning in the money, the price goes up, and consumers pay. It hasn't been done out of stupidity, it has been done with full knowledge. I have understood that the government understands this, and that is their policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U189	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U190	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague, good waitress, initiator of the bill! I think, Lembit, you've taken the right approach. The cost of electricity has been absurd. It is enough to fly over Estonia in the dark. Then you can see that there's a great deal of depression at the bottom. The villages are blind, in many cases cities and settlements are blind because there is no money. Lembit, can you tell if the Estonian electricity market is open? At present, electricity can only be purchased by Russia, which is excluded, and from Latvia, there is nowhere else to buy. Is the Estonian electricity market currently open?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U191	Thanks for asking. What do you think is an open market? Nõmme's market is open at 8:00 a.m., 7:00 a.m., 6:00 a.m., and anyone can go to that or that clock. If you think it's an open market, go to the electricity market. In principle, this would be one answer, but more seriously, it must be said that the electricity market will certainly never be open in Nõmme's market. What is currently in Estonia is simply a monopolistic market that is trying to show openness that is not really there. Large energy producers and energy sellers were able to access the market at market prices. However, when small consumers are told that they are on the market and are buying from the market, it makes some people smile.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U192	Jaan Apple Tree, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U193	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear waitress, In my opinion, there is also a very nice financial balance in this bill, where this money comes from and how much money can be left over, for example, to KredEx, in order to heat buildings. However, the abolition of the renewable energy charge will ease the end-user's price increase by 1.17 euro cents per kilowatt-hour. It can also be said that the average household's electricity bill will be reduced by EUR 40 to 45 per year. Do you think this is significant help and support for Estonian families who have to wrestle with their daily financial concerns every day?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U194	I think it's support. But I also think that one thing is to want support in the form of a'real cent' or a euro, but consumers also need moral support. This would be a concrete and tangible step. People would understand that a country that pursues such an energy policy will also meet them, understand their difficult situation and take on a piece of it. A concrete, tangible piece. They don't do it for fashion. It is the moral side that matters when the country goes to help consumers in difficult times.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U195	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U196	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, The answer to my first question was that the electricity market has still been missed. I'll get a comparison from sports. If the basketball team doesn't achieve the result, the coach will be driven away. Who is responsible in Estonia for what is happening on the electricity market?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U197	Currently, the consumer is responsible for his own wallet. Who's in charge of politicians? I think this year will perhaps bring out the specific responsibilities. For example, I am not convinced at all that the price of electricity cannot become one of the serious arguments of the coalition this year. Then they will come or bring out the specific responsible.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U198	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu by Toomas Tõniste, member of the Economic Commission!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U199	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Founded colleagues! The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the referral to first reading on 10 December. The initiator's representative, Lembit Kaljuvee, presented an overview of the objectives and content of the draft. Meelis Münt, Acting Deputy Secretary-General of the Ministry of the Environment, Rein Vaks, Head of the Energy Market Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and Mari Lahtmets, Adviser to the Fiscal Policy Department of the Ministry of Finance, invited the Commission to the meeting. It was a concern that the revenue indicated in the draft explanatory memorandum would end in 2020. Therefore, there is no cost coverage after that. The trading period related to the draft will change as compared to the current period from 2013 to 2020. In the European Union, a system of auctioning allowances is being launched, i.e. an auction system. All companies in the European Union that need units to cover their pollution will purchase them by auction. Auction income is largely received by the state budget. The Auction Directive specifies that at least 50% of quota revenue is to be used for measures contributing to climate policy, while the remainder may be used by the State for activities that do not increase greenhouse gas emissions. The legislation regulates the area until 2020. It is important to Estonia that Estonia, using the derogation provided for in the directive, requested and received the right to direct a substantial part of the quota to be auctioned in order to modernise electricity production from the European Commission's approved investment plan. In 2013, it represents 60 to 70% of the quota volume and, if linearly decreased, it would be around 10% in 2019. Therefore, funds to cover the need set out in the draft would not be sufficient. The estimated quota revenue for 2013 would be EUR 20 million. Therefore, this is not enough to cover EUR 80 million. It was decided, with the consent of 296 initiators, to send the draft to the Riigikogu for first reading on 15 January 2013 and to propose that the draft 296 be rejected by the Assembly. When the first reading is closed, it is proposed that the deadline for submitting amendments be 10 working days, i.e. 29 January 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U200	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? Please, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U201	Thank you. Good waitress! Perhaps you will also present to the Chamber the government's position on the draft and how it was dealt with in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U202	In principle, it was the government's view that the sources of cover were not sufficient. The whole Commission debate was also mainly on the sources of coverage. The position of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications can be summarised in the last sentence of their letter: 'It is not reasonable to lower the consumer price by means of temporary measures, but rather to use possible means to help the consumer achieve additional energy efficiency. '
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U203	Deniss Borodich, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U204	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! It's a good thing you read that Ministry's response, but it doesn't make much sense. As I said, the field of renewable energy is entirely governed by the state, it decides who, what and how to support. It also sells allowances to whom and at what price it wants. But why does the consumer pay for all this fun in turn, if the revenues that the state receives from emission allowances could already be actually covered by the functioning of renewable energy?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U205	Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U206	Thank you. I just said there's a big difference. As a country, we have received the right to use EUA quotas for investment. We cannot use them to cover current costs, i.e. renewable energy charges.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U207	I need a little clarification. If we use them in the way proposed in the draft, will they not support investment? You'd support me, wouldn't you?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U208	The investment plan has now been approved. Of course, what somebody thinks is an investment. But we can't use them as a cover right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U209	Deniss Borodich, two questions can be asked. Eiki Nestor, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U210	Thank you. It's good to have a little debate. After all, the difference is which investments we support. In one case, production of expensive electricity, in the other case, production which is more friendly to the environment and probably more favourable to all in the long term. Can the conclusion of your calculated government position be taken as a suggestion to delete the lamps, or better yet, turn out the bulbs?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U211	Thank you. No, absolutely not. If we look more broadly, the electricity bill accounts for 10% of people's heat bills. The question arises: if the money is received by the state budget, where we will use it. The government's current position is that it will be used for investment in renewable energy and the second part will go to restore the balance of the state budget.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U212	Aivar Riisalu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U213	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! I have a broader question. You're part of the government coalition, and you're a long-term member of the Economic Commission. You're an entrepreneur, too. We see that the free electricity market can lead to a price up to 7% higher in different estimates than in Finland, which clearly paralyzes competitiveness. Has the Committee on Economic Affairs not felt, however, that there is a need to discuss various measures that could mitigate the overall deterioration in competitiveness in Estonia due to the price of electricity, both for the population and for business? I believe that if the government does not want to do this, should we not be smarter as a parliament? Has the Commission not felt that this issue could be seen as a matter of national importance?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U214	Thank you. Price increases inhibit entrepreneurship, that's true. There have been thoughts that this should be discussed and discussed. However, I do not agree with the argument that we have a higher price and will be even higher. These price comparisons, which I have seen, show that in the Nordic region we also have the lowest price per kilowatt for new prices; only in Latvia the electricity was probably a little cheaper. But they dotted the electricity, but if they've moved from the new year to the free market conditions, they'll probably get higher too.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U215	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? I open negotiations and ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group Jaan Õunapuu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U216	Mr. Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Private consumers have also been on the free market for electricity for more than two weeks. During this period, we have learned that we have had the most expensive electricity in Scandinavia and the Baltic countries on some days. Elering's leader has said that its appreciation has been caused by a lack of competition. What's there to deny, Estlink 2 isn't physically prepared, and it certainly inhibits the need to make prices more acceptable. The government's analogous bill has passed the first reading, but it is not far off and looks forward to the second reading. When it comes, time will tell. I am pleased that the author, Lembit Kaljuvee, who has very strong experience in this field, explained very well, in my opinion, the need for a measure to support the Estonian people, so that the state would show its wish and will to help overcome these difficulties. But now to the positions of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. In its reply, the Ministry has opposed renewable energy and energy savings, which are not appropriate. The use of renewable energy is also an opportunity to save energy. Locally renewable sources help, for example, to reduce losses due to electricity transmission, as well as to ensure, for example, an increase in the overall efficiency of energy production and primary energy savings in the wider deployment of cogeneration regimes. Now I'm going to see KredEx. Since the creation of KredEx, nearly 2% of existing dwellings have been insulated with their help. According to Statistics Estonia, there are 41 million square metres of dwellings in Estonia. According to the KredEx demonstration projects, energy consumption in a typical apartment building will be reduced by nearly 50% by complex renovations with an investment cost of EUR 125 per square metre. If the state plans to continue renovating apartment buildings at the same rate Given that the State has supported the renovation of a maximum of 35%, EUR 3.5 million per year is needed. Therefore, it is not right to say that emission allowances cannot support renewable energy because there is a need to support energy savings. However, if the country intends to take energy savings more seriously than before, what are the plans? At what pace should buildings be insulated? If we were to take the hypothetical situation that the state would miraculously accelerate the pace of renovation five times, it would still only take EUR 17.5 million per year, while the revenue from quota sales would be between EUR 60 and 80 million in 2013. I have to say that these figures have changed somewhat since the bill was submitted to this day. I'll deal with that, too. According to Elering, this year 64 million euros will be spent on grants and the country will be able to realise 9.98 million allowances. The quota price has slightly decreased in the last month (Friday, 11 January, the CO2 quota price was EUR 6,17 per tonne). At the same time, the government could also earn EUR 61.6 million from the sale of quotas at this low price. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U217	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U218	However, it can be expected that the European Commission will take steps to increase the price of the quota and that the price will increase in the second half of the year. If the price of the quota were to rise to eight euros, for example, the country would earn nearly 80 million euros. I dare say from this remote control that consumers should not have to pay for the development of renewable energy. The idea of emissions trading is to reduce pollution in Europe, especially greenhouse gas emissions. Consequently, the revenues of the emissions trade must be earmarked for reducing emissions, i.e. supporting renewable energy projects and saving energy. It will also help to reduce the shock that hit consumers due to the increase in electricity prices, as bills would fall by nearly 10% per year. As for the IRL slogan 'Home expenses down! ', then, what to deny there, our party has constantly drawn attention to energy saving issues and kept them focused. We did this long before the IRL discovered it as an election promise. It would be a great pity if the coalition again missed the opportunity to meet people and reduce the price of electricity. The reasons put forward by the Ministry of Economic Affairs were particularly cynical that the cost of energy is inevitable and that the cheapest energy is saved energy. I think it's especially cynical for people who, in their homes, light corridors and auxiliary rooms with outdoor sun lamps. I call for this bill to be supported so that the people of Estonia can receive help and support! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U219	Thank you. Please ask Aivar Riisalu, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U220	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, The draft we are discussing today is another attempt by thinking people to create a situation in Estonia so that the shock of the transition to the free market of electricity is not as great as it now tends to be. The transition to the free market for electricity was agreed during the process of accession to the European Union. Today, it has to be acknowledged that outside this hall, quite a number of thoughtful people dare to admit that it was probably a passionate love for the European Union. As we know, passion has the ability to blind us all. We do not want to think that our passionate love brings about some misfortune over the years, for example, a woman or a man gets fat and a man gets bald and grows grumpy. That is exactly what has happened to our promises when we joined the European Union. Figuratively speaking, the free market that was put on our heads could be described as a man becoming bald or a woman getting fat. For the simple reason that when we promised ourselves that we would go to the free market, we did not understand what it really meant. We don't have a free market right now. We do not have normal connections with other regions. We only have connections with Russia, and we ourselves can produce so much electricity that would actually satisfy our needs. Perhaps in the long term, our energy is so expensive that we are reasonable to participate in the free market. But in any case, we are now in a situation where we are selling ourselves power at a pointless price by extracting national wealth from the earth and burning it in the furnaces, because we do not really expect it to come from anywhere else, even from a security point of view. We do not like Russian electricity; even less do we like Latvian electricity coming from Russia. We cannot buy Latvia's own electricity because they do not have it, they themselves are about 30% short. You remember those beautiful long winter nights when we sat in this hall all night and the Central Party fought to at least lower the excise duty a little. The European Union, which requires us to be on the free market, and we have met this condition, gives us the opportunity to pay excise duty at different levels, at our own choice. This proposal did not suit the government coalition, even when we fought passionate battles for it. The Social Democrats were here with us. It has to be admitted that this side of the hall really thinks it would help a person and a bit of an entrepreneur. The average Estonian company is a small company with nine employees. Any change in the price of energy carriers has a significant impact on the competitiveness of these small enterprises. Today there is a new proposal on the table, also relatively reasonable. Once again, the Commission's view is that this proposal is worth nothing, and we hardly seem to be able to do so. By the way, to be honest, we have to admit that our party here is not clean to the end either. At the time that renewable energy charges were agreed, the Minister for Economic Affairs was the person of our party. No one evidently knew at the moment when renewable energy subsidies were agreed what the market situation would be. Some businesses now have public support and all of this is paid by the consumer. But you see, the consumer situation has become a little too complicated. I think it makes sense, even if the marriage has failed, that is, the woman is fat and the man is bald, to think that maybe there is some way to preserve this life together. Let us consider together whether there is really nothing we can do to make life in Estonia a little more dignified and people are not as worried as they are now. Let's help them! We have a bill at the moment, which gives us a chance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U221	No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The position of the commission is that draft 296 should be rejected at first reading. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on this proposal. Dear colleagues, I am voting to reject the draft proposal by the commission at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 48 members of the Riigikogu, 32 against and no abstentions. Draft 296 has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure. The second item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U222	Let us move on to the third item on the agenda. This is the first reading of the draft law amending the Health Services Organisation Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group. I ask for a presentation of the Riigikogu Chair of the Riigikogu member Eiki Nestori!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U223	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! As a result of the last vote, I am afraid that this draft could also go along with the draft that has just been discussed. The Riigikogu does not want to discuss serious matters. That's a shame. But I hope that maybe the fate of this bill will be a little better. The draft concerns the amendment of the Health Services Organisation Act and is beautifully short. His content, however, is broader and much more serious. In our opinion, the Riigikogu and the government have not been able to provide any more serious solutions to the financing of the future of Estonian health care in the last ten years. If anyone thinks that the wage agreement concluded and the possible future cooperation document, which I hope will be signed, will explain where the light might shine at the end of the tunnel, he is very wrong. These are obviously very necessary documents, but they do not provide any solution for the longer term. The draft itself rests not only on our thoughts, but also to a large extent on a document that I have repeatedly mentioned here at the Riigikogu Speaker's Office. I thought, in order to attract interest among Members of Parliament, I would show it this time. This is an assessment of the Estonian health care system. This document was drawn up by the World Health Organisation years ago and has also been followed up. In short, the assessment is that the Estonian health care system is organised in a transparent, clear and effective manner. He has only one clear mistake, perhaps because of this clear arrangement and efficiency: at some point he will need more money. Also, how much he needs more money has been calculated. This has not only been done by the World Health Organisation, but also by our own experts. In fact, two years ago, the Ministry of Finance was grateful to commission a Praxis survey on the effects of the ageing population on our social security. This study was also completed in 2011. In the case of health care, however, only the assessment of ageing is limited. Both the World Health Organisation and Praxis clearly confirm that by 2030, for example, the impact of ageing alone on the costs and benefits of our health care is such that Estonian health care is 0.4% of GDP in deficit.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U224	Good waitress, I'm sorry! Good fellows, there's too much buzz and noise in the hall. I beg you, let us honor the waitress and those who wish to hear this report! Sorry, waitress! Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U225	What is more important to this is what is happening in healthcare. Today's world is constantly offering health care new opportunities in terms of treatments, equipment, and medicines. This will have a further 1.0% impact on the increase in deficit by 2030. The World Health Organisation has also looked at how the use of health services has increased in Estonia over the years, in view of the improvement in our survival. Here comes an additional 1.4%. So the real estimate is that in 2030 the ratio of revenue to expenditure in our health care, at the worst, is 3% of GDP minus, and best of all, when it comes to ageing alone, is 0.4%. I guess that's the truth in between. There is, by the way, no administrative measure currently in place to keep these new methods out of our health care. And why these measures should be, obviously there is no point in keeping out new methods. So the impact of population ageing and new opportunities means 1.4% of GDP by 2030. We can estimate what our GDP could be in 2030, but we know that it will hopefully be EUR 18 billion in 2013. You can transfer this calculation to today's day and see that the missing amount is very large. The question to which the answer should be given is one: who will pay for it? These costs will in any case increase. It would be the duty of politicians, depending, of course, on their worldview, to respond to who is doing it. You don't have to be a health care professional to bring this up. It is very gratifying that they did so last year with their collective withdrawal. What was even more effective was when the new head of the health insurance fund dared to say what was known to be no secret. I still believe that the previous leader would have made it clear. As long as we are not looking for an answer to who has to pay for these services, what happens is that after the strike we make some kind of agreement and increase some kind of fees that people pay themselves, and then we wonder if anyone wants to ask for some kind of services they offer, to ask for money that they do not have the right to ask for according to the law. Maybe we're always moving around in a dead circle. At present, the concept of ownership is important for health expenditure. This is the part of the costs paid by the patients themselves in different ways, not only as a visit or bed pay, but also, for example, when they buy medicines. In Estonia it has fluctuated between 20% and 25% of total expenditure. Its increase would mean, by the way, that: Our Prime Minister gave an interview during the strike and said that the Estonian health care system has been evaluated alongside that it is effective. He was right. But because of what it's achieved, it may be unknown. Effectiveness has been achieved because we have a stake in this order of magnitude. If it increases even further, i.e. people pay more than their own pockets for services, efficiency will fall. This will decrease, in particular, due to the fact that very many services are becoming inaccessible to a large proportion of those in need of services. This is all science that is not challenged by any health economics expert in the world, but what, it seems, politicians find it quite difficult to understand. Our draft is, in my opinion, one of the two important ideas that have been put forward over the last few years. Before I come to these two ideas, I say that all the proposals that have been made to make the use of money even more reasonable and effective, for example, could be reviewed, because it has been done ten years ago and could now be modernised, are all necessary and must be taken seriously and understandingly, they must be considered and taken in this direction. But they will not give a financial effect of this magnitude to cover this growing deficit in any way. The first proposal was made by the Prax research centre years ago. Unfortunately, this was misunderstood because of the relatively less successful explanation. The content of their proposal was as follows: the State would pay the health insurance fee for one large group of persons covered by the law, i.e. pensioners. It is not the pensioner himself who would pay, but the state would pay the health insurance tax on the pensions paid out, and that money would go to the health insurance fund. The cost of this proposal is more or less in the same order of magnitude as the one we have proposed. This would mean that, in principle, the system would operate as it is today, but the state would cover health care costs in addition to other revenues, outside health insurance. The idea put forward in this draft is a little different, he has a little bit of a nuance. We, too, will see to it that part of the current expenditure on health insurance is borne by the State's other revenues. For this purpose, the list of what our joint and several health insurance provides is the most suitable general medical care service, i.e. family medicine. At present, the state pays for unavoidable help in such a way that it has a contract with the health insurance fund, transfers money there, and all those people who receive emergency care and do not have health insurance receive help in hospitals. This service is paid to hospitals. We're not leaving anyone on the street to die. Our proposal is for health insurance to receive, in the same way, a clear amount of money from the state's other revenues, which would cover the costs of general medical care, to family doctors. The substantive difference between this idea and Praxis is, in short, as follows. This funding scheme would make the family doctor service available on the same basis to both insured and non-insured persons. For all those people who do not have health insurance, but who visit the family doctor and are on his list, they would be paid to the family doctors. Paragraph 11 (2) of the Health Services Organisation Act clearly states that these people must pay for it themselves. Our proposal is that this could be done from other tax revenues in the country. I consider them both to be a viable proposal that should be considered seriously. During the medical strike, there was a third suggestion, which I dare criticize. I do not believe that Tsahkna, Chairman of the Committee on Honourable Social Affairs, or Minister Hanno Pevkur himself at the time, took this seriously. I guess it was more meant to calm the doctors and nurses or something. In fact, the idea that the part of the cost of health insurance that could be covered elsewhere is disability benefit and disability sheets. From the point of view of health management, people will certainly like it, because then there should be more money in the health insurance fund. However, the question arises as to what kind of money they will be paid for. In terms of content, there is no difference between raising a certain percentage of social security contributions or moving incapacity sheets out of health insurance, somewhere else and starting to make sure there. In any case, this would be a step that, as far as I know, no Estonian party supports. After all, all of us here, regardless of our outlook, have found that we have a high level of taxation on labour. I do not recall anyone proposing to raise this level further. But that's what this proposal really means. In any case, sickness days should be paid for. I therefore dare to question the sincerity of the MP Tsahkna and then Minister Pevkuri when they made this proposal, because it meant increasing the share of labour taxes in its content. Unless, of course, they didn't mean that people shouldn't get any money during illness, but I don't want to put such a bad idea on them. I believe that they are warm politicians and believe and understand that even when people are sick, they need income. The most likely thing is that they just found one hook to ease the resentment of the time, and the real content behind it is largely not. Even the work that is currently being done to create a uniform form of insurance for various forms of incapacity for work is, in my opinion, quite questionable. We are compared to the Netherlands, where we are really seriously dealing with incapacity for work. The idea is, in itself, that people who have lost their job capacity should be brought back to work as soon as possible, beautiful and right, but it is forgotten that in the Netherlands, the employer once continued to pay their salary when the person was sick for 52 weeks, but since 2006 or 2007 for 104 weeks, sorry, months. Our employer pays five days from the fourth day, while in the Netherlands, we pay for two years of sick leave. This is a completely different situation in the approach to the issue of incapacity for work. In wishing for strength for all those looking for new ideas, I dare to doubt whether this would produce any results in Estonia. But in any case, it would also mean the need to finance all this. If we look at the situation with the reintegration of people who have lost their capacity to work into the labour market, the biggest minus is not where the sickness benefits are paid out or on the basis of which, for example, the ability to work is assessed, but the biggest drawback is that we do not have the money to bring these people back to work through rehabilitation. The bill also provides for expenditure. The amount given in the draft is based on current real costs. In 2012, EUR 71.5 million per year was planned in the health insurance budget for general medical care. We have made this draft in such a way that you should understand that it also requires serious changes in the country's tax policy and fiscal policy in general. It can be expected that, in 2014, if this draft law came into force, general medical care could be worth €75 to €80 million. These are real costs when we are talking about the current level. If, thanks to this draft, non-insured persons are also entitled to family doctors, this will mean an additional EUR 5 to 7 million per year. Therefore, we say clearly and unambiguously that it is also necessary to change Estonia's fiscal policy to enter into force as a bill. But the choice that politicians have to make is either to pay for these services jointly and severally together or to do so by everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U226	Thank you, good waitress. You have questions. Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U227	Thank you. Good performer! You really spoke well about the situation in Estonian health care, in more depth than is done in the draft, and you also mentioned your participation. In fact, its meaning has changed over time. We know, for example, that the first days of illness, when the person's ownership applies, are no longer covered at all, and that the money from public health programmes is also taken into account for their participation. This percentage is going to get smaller, but it's going to be much bigger when you look at the purely service. What do you think about demagoguery? There is another part of the question. You mentioned paying for pensioners. Suddenly, it turns out we're talking about it, and at some point, the pensioners are going to have to pay. That's the kind of "start of the law" that's ever been.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U228	I repeat, there has never been such a law initiative. Right now, it's probably a very topical subject who's taking the poison. I have spoken with those who have proposed it, and I can take the poison to think that they have never thought that pensioners should pay for themselves. This proposal was such that the state would pay a certain amount of money for insurance against pensioners from other incomes. I've never seen a different bill, and I've never seen one. Believe me, MP Marika Tuus-Sing, that's true. They figured it out differently. Since it was either 2003, 2004 or 2005, I do not know who so failed to explain it. But such a proposal that pensioners themselves should pay, I have never heard, and no one has. However, I would like to add (this is not just about pensioners) that if we postpone the answer to this question, the own contribution will sneak up. This relates to a number of areas. For example, lack of funding for general medical care and emergency care department in North Estonia Regional Hospital. In fact, any visit fee for the services provided by the EMO should be incomprehensible. However, since there is a good job doing, patching up the holes that have occurred elsewhere, perhaps receiving patients who should go to another doctor, but they cannot get there and go to the ER, they are already taking the visit fee and have been taken in the past. The creation of these paid services in this form is, in my view, also clearly contrary to the law in force. They must not take more than this law, which was unfortunately amended here by the majority of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U229	Maret Maripuu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U230	Thank you. Good waitress! You presented within 20 minutes a beautiful vision of how to ensure the sustainability of the healthcare system and what concrete steps could be taken. But I'm coming to the two sections of the bill that you've offered. You will provide family doctor services for persons not covered by health insurance. You also stressed in your report that it couldn't get any more effective. But if we only finance the family doctor's service without drug compensation, then the use of the money is not very effective, is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U231	In many ways, a good colleague has the right question. This issue could be addressed, but it is like the subject of another law, because compensation is covered by the Health Insurance Act. In principle, I agree with my colleague Maripuu that financing family medical services from other public revenues could mean that uninsured persons are guaranteed access to medicines in a more favourable way than they do now. I agree with that, but this is the subject of the Health Insurance Act. The Health Services Act does not deal at all with medicines. But basically, it's a fair question. If, in the course of the further procedure of the draft, your proposals come to this point, I will take a very favourable view of them.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U232	Tarmo Leinatamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U233	Thank you. Dear waitress, Since your presentation was very broad, almost like a university lecture, I dare ask you about this Dutch example. How long will the employer pay? Does he pay 104 months or two years? You said 104 months, which is 8.6 years. If that is the case, I am very sorry for the entrepreneur, even the Dutch entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U234	Marika Tuus-Laul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U235	I'm sorry! Two years.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U236	Thank you. Good colleague! I really do have a paper from the government office (it was presented only on an idea level and perhaps by accident from the government to the public), which included an initial plan for pensioners to start paying for health insurance. But that's it. I'm still asking about the change over time. How do you comment on that? This WHO thickness study (the little brochure that was translated was, like, thinner), which was critical and thorough, said that self-participation should not be increased, especially in view of the poorer part of the population. After all, 13% of the social tax had initially been taken into account, so a very large increase was not taken into account.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U237	There's a couple of risks in increasing ownership. One is, I'd say, world-viewed. I think that self-participation should not increase either because services should be available to people regardless of their income. Maybe part of the hall doesn't share that principle. But it's a threat. Certainly, an increase in own contribution also means a more ineffective arrangement. This understanding should not depend so much on the outlook of the world, but on the understanding of it. In other words, when these things are done through a controlled system, a healthier person will ultimately cost society less than when everyone pays. The difference is mainly that very many will be left without medical care and we will no longer be able to talk about how to bring them back to the labour market. Their future will then have to do with the sadder consequences. It gets hopeless when a person doesn't have any money. The size of the holding in Estonia is, I would say, on the border. It's dangerous to increase it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U238	Valdo Randpere, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U239	Thank you. Dear waitress, I, too, wanted to ask you about this Dutch example. I'm sure you can tell us that. In the Netherlands, what were the considerations behind this change that the employer started to pay for two years instead of one year? It sounded like a sympathy from you, but I thought it was something else. In the Netherlands, the percentage of taking sick leave was very high. Even the so-called Dutch disease was spoken about in Europe. Now, however, the employer has received this responsibility and has introduced very strict control over the health status of people while they are on the sick leave. The result is that the number of sick workers has fallen to around one third. Do I have the right data, or do you have a different idea?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U240	I don't have anything to compare with the bill you gave me. But basically speaking, it depends again on how someone appreciates it. The idea that the employer pays for sick days is not so much in control, as in the end another system can be expected to be able to effectively control it. In particular, the effect is that the employer will then have a greater interest in working conditions and thus reduce general illness. In the case of several other insurances, such as accidents at work and occupational diseases, he has an interest in maintaining working conditions and not paying a higher rate. He hasn't had that kind of interest in general illness so far. This is the main reason why these obligations are imposed on employers. Speaking of how long this time is, Estonia's five days are, as far as I know, the most common length in Europe. The Netherlands has two years as a very big exception. I can't tell you how much it's reduced the number of sick days. However, I do know that the resources that are used to rehabilitate and rehabilitate the inability to work are many times greater than we do. If we are going to do this, we should first find a clear source of cover from which to finance it. Maybe this bill is one step towards ever getting there, but I don't see that source today.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U241	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U242	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I am interested in how primary care for uninsured people is regulated in our neighbouring countries, such as Finland. Can you explain that? Maybe we can measure from there.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U243	Can't measure from all countries. There are countries that do not have health insurance, but are publicly funded health care arrangements and pocket-paying health care arrangements. If there is no insurance, no one here can make any difference, no matter what the service is, even when you go to a family doctor. Those countries that have, in the meantime, given up the insurance principle and have gone to so-called public financing have regretted this later, as far as I know. At least in a couple of cases, I've read such regret articles. The advantage of insurance lies in a separate row in the state budget that health insurance receives such or such an amount. Independence in financing health care is a victory. I, too, believe that when adopting tax laws, the state cannot prescribe where the money has to go for all its revenues. Otherwise, it would be almost impossible to draw up a state budget and look for sensible solutions. But there are obviously areas that are more sensitive and need greater independence. One of them is health care. It makes sense there's a purpose. Therefore, it is also reasonable that we have it organised in an insurance manner. But insurance, unfortunately, always has one problem: there's gonna be a bunch of people who aren't insured. So it is organised in different ways in different countries. In Finland, as far as I know, there is no distinction here, and everyone receives general medical care on the same basis.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U244	Tarmo Leinatamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U245	Thank you. Good waitress! You said there were about 83000 uninsured people.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U246	As far as I know, a little more.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U247	That's quite a number. Have you studied what the reason is? Is this a reason for people's sloppyness, inability to go to the unemployment fund to register, or in another or a third way? Aren't we making people's lives too comfortable? Soon they may not come out of the house at all, because everything is paid for, even if no one is bothering to go to the unemployment fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U248	Our health insurance law is a beautiful exception in this respect. There are clear criteria in the health insurance that are required to be insured, for example, the unemployed are obliged to secure the unemployment fund, and the state also guarantees a certain number of people by paying social security contributions for them. However, there are still a number of people who do not fit into any of the criteria. If, according to the law, they do not receive health insurance from anywhere else, they will be able to insure themselves for more money in Estonia. This section works mainly for people who are in retirement age and live in Estonia, but for whom a pension is paid by another country. We have secured under the law those people to whom the Republic of Estonia pays their pension. But there's a lot of people like that left, there's nothing to do. There are also those who are at home, and there are those who do not go to the unemployment fund. I don't think that this roughly 100 thousand-person contingent would be a group of laborers or lazy sausages. That is certainly not the case.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U249	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, member of the Social Affairs Committee, Maret Maripuu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U250	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee discussed the draft law amending the Health Services Organisation Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group at its meeting on 12 November last year. Ülle Jordan, Head Specialist of Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, was invited to the meeting of the committee. The draft was presented to the members of the committee by the initiator's representative, Eiki Nestor. Since the initiator introduced the draft very thoroughly today, I will not repeat it. However, I will present both the position of the Government of the Republic and the debate that took place in the Commission. The Government of the Republic does not support the draft, for the following reasons. They consider that the solution proposed in the draft cannot be accepted for the financing of general medical care for persons insured with health insurance and not covered by health insurance. The Government of the Republic stresses in its opinion: 'We consider it important to address the sustainability of healthcare funding, but at the same time we do not support the separation of funding for general medical care provided to insured persons from health insurance, as it separates general medical care from health care financed by other health insurance funds. Such fragmented funding would make it difficult to use financial incentives to increase the role of general medical care and could lead to inefficient use of resources. [- - -] In our view, the regulation laid down in the draft has not been considered in its entirety either, as it does not contain proposals for an implementing scheme for amending the law, nor does it provide the necessary definition of the impact of the implementation of the draft, including expenditure on the state budget. ' Now a few words from the debate in the Commission. The Commission did not discuss the sustainability of the funding of the health system, but the debate was based on the specific amendments that were set out in the draft. One question that arose in the Commission was the following. If medical care for uninsured persons were guaranteed from the state budget, would it not reduce the motivation to work, seek employment and register at the unemployment fund? At present, receiving health insurance is an important reason for registering as unemployed. This will ensure that people who have been absent from the labour market for a long time are also interested in re-entering the labour market. The initiator stated that this is a very correct question. He stressed that the initiators had discussed this problem and found that specialised medical care was so important that it justified the inclusion of health insurance. The initiators' representative stressed that the solution proposed in the draft leaves more money to specialist medical care. In addition to the unemployed, the question arose about people who are working, but they do not pay taxes, such as the recipients of the envelope, the recipients of the dividend income, the self-employed who have debts. The representative of the initiators of the bill found that the Health Insurance Act does not eliminate all fraud. This issue has been discussed with the Tax and Customs Board in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. One idea is to regulate industrial relations in order to minimise tax evasion. The Commission was interested in whether the reimbursement of medicines should be added to the financing of general medical care for uninsured persons from the state budget. The initiator said that this proposal had been left to the amendments. If the state were to pay for general medical care for uninsured persons, it would make sense for them to do so in conjunction with reimbursement of medicines. These were the most important issues discussed in the Commission. The Commission took the following decisions: Firstly, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 20 November. This decision was made by consensus. Secondly, the Commission proposed to reject the draft. It was supported by 5 and against 4 members of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U251	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! I'm opening negotiations. Please ask Viktor Vassilyev, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U252	Mr President! Health care needs to be raised, and uninsured persons must also be treated. Although, listening to the coalition's questions, it seemed strange. I do not know who their constituents are or who they are making such interesting conclusions about human nature that it is the unemployed who do not want to work, the uninsured person is the one who has not bothered to come out of the house and fill out an application for insurance, the poor are probably anti-stateist and should be destroyed and we should be in a mandatory position to be rich, young, happy, beautiful and absolute with musical hearing. Look, there's a lot of people. Some people just lose their lives, there's nothing they can do about it. The state must certainly have mechanisms to help one or the other. But if somehow it's thought that if we make a person's life a little better or more comfortable or create some kind of help mechanism, for example, let's give him free crutches, so he'll only start walking on crutches, then that's not the case. If you think that if we give uninsured people medical care, everyone wants to be uninsured, then that is not the case. This is not the case in the rest of the world. Nobody wants to fall below a generally acceptable standard of living in a society in order to obtain some kind of social benefits or beg in front of a church. These aren't the happy people we see when we come to work here every day on the church stairs. You know, you gotta bring more money to health. For some reason, the coalition, the government and the Minister of Social Affairs, both former and present, find that it should be taken from someone's pocket, whether it be a patient or an unemployed person. In their opinion, it can be taken at the expense of anyone, but not of the revenue of the State. They think it's a good bill, but unfortunately, he has a huge shortage that if the state paid social tax on pensions, it would be the other revenues of the state. The state has increased these other revenues with care and love; it has raised the price of electricity in order to create more excise duties; it has increased excise duties on alcohol; it has looked here and where it can scrape these other revenues. Now suddenly they want to take them away and, as was said in the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to make inefficient use of resources. Yes, treating the poor, the uninsured, the unemployed and, in particular, the sick is indeed, in the view of the current government, an inefficient use of resources. All our problems begin with the fact that healthcare is heavily underfunded. Once, when the amount of the health insurance tax was set at 13%, it was calculated that during the Soviet period, it went from GDP to 4,8 to 4,9%, now it has increased, it was 5.9%, and in the meantime it was even 6.1%, thanks to a decrease in GDP itself, but it could not be reduced much. According to the percentage, this cannot be taken into account because our GDP per capita is significantly lower than the European Union average. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U253	Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U254	Thank you. Health care would not need more EUR 5 million, not EUR 74 million and not EUR 78 million, but it should be four times more, because health care services in Estonia cannot be much cheaper than in Germany. Health care requires medicine, chemicals, complex cocksucking, staff training. These things cost us no less than in Germany, because the apparatus is purchased from China or, if it is purchased from the Netherlands, it is assembled from parts produced in China in the Netherlands. The price is still the same. We can save a little money only on staff salaries. We've got to get more money. We have offered that EUR 74 million in excise duties on alcohol and tobacco could be channelled into health care. To be honest, it doesn't really matter to us whether it goes directly from the state budget or through the health insurance fund to hospitals, general medical care or an ambulance, anyone. The mechanism is not important; more money is needed. Let's see how general medical care is organised. Of course, from the Social Democratic Party, where there is such good know-how about the health care system, and such a guru as Eiki Nestor would have expected some words about organisational changes in family doctors and general medical care. After all, our problem is that family doctors are self-employed who compete with each other, who cannot even consult each other. If they worked together in a health centre, as is the case in Finland, a family doctor could take a serious patient who cannot be treated by him by hand, go to a colleague's office and say, "Good colleague, do you think this is the right diagnosis or the right treatment? Maybe you could suggest something. " Our family doctors can't do that. There's no liability at all. According to the law, a family doctor who is supposed to receive sick persons 24 hours a day and seven days a week does this work as well as some members of the Riigikogu, the responsibility is the same. Look how many family doctors we have in this room today. That's the way it is with a family doctor. No one can call him back, he'll get his bounty. As among the members of the Riigikogu there are people who have a conscience, there are different family doctors. That's how we gym here. I will now see how the members of the coalition vote against this bill, which aims to bring money to health care, to ensure general medical care for uninsured persons. People are watching who votes. Good luck and good health!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U255	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The position of the Steering Committee is that draft 277 should be rejected at first reading. Let's start preparing the vote. I shall put to the vote the draft proposal by the commission of reference to reject it at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There were 43 members of the Riigikogu, 26 against and no abstentions. Draft 277 has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure. We have finished dealing with the third item.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U256	Let us move on to the fourth item, which is the first reading of the draft law amending the State Property Act initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group. Aivar Riisalu, member of the Riigikogu speech chair, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U257	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, What does a soldier mean before a decisive battle? Last night he cleans up his equipment, and the next day he's in danger of being killed in battle, he's gonna shoot through his entire life in front of his eyes. Knowing today how hard a bill I came to the remote, last night I cleaned my suit, picked out the most dramatic tie I could, and shot my whole life in front of my eyes. Today on the remote, I feel like Martin Luther, about to go to war against the supersurprised Popes. The bill I'm presenting here is like teas against oversold Popes, taking away their chance to live in luxury, free and ridicule the rest of society in their freely chosen form. But now I'm going to the bill. The battle begins! The purpose of the draft is to harmonise the remuneration of members of the board of directors of state companies with that of the President of the Republic of Estonia. The current salary of the President of the Republic of Estonia is 6060 euros. There is also a certain possibility of correction in line with the consumer price index and changes due to average social tax receipts, i.e. it is not actually a constant size. The Centre Party is of the opinion that state companies (in particular, we are actually talking about only five companies that I will list later) have companies whose leaders cannot in any way have a greater responsibility than the President of the Republic of Estonia, the Prime Minister and, for example, ministers. We are talking about companies that have five left: AS Estonian Air, Eesti Energia AS, OÜ Elering, AS Eesti Raudtee and AS Tallinna Sadam. All these companies are formally companies. But I quote Igor Gräzini, the Reform Party, who has once made a pretty golden point, dedicating it to the top executive of one of these companies: 'Good Sandor Liive! You are not a businessman; you are a social worker whose task is to provide electricity at a normal price to the residents of the Republic of Estonia and to the business environment. ' All five companies are very clearly infrastructure or energy companies, which must ensure a normal business environment in the territory of the Republic of Estonia. If we look at the essence of this, we will come to a very sad conclusion. The company that has caused this bill to be presented is Estonian Air. He's been a joke in the eyes of the whole society in the last few months. As a result of the strategy amended by the Council, Tero Taskila put into practice a very strange concept that cannot be understood, mildly speaking, possible. I remember very clearly when the owners of Estonian Air included SAS and one investment fund, or private investors. When Estonian Air explained to us as members of the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu at the time what he wanted to do, it seemed very logical. That's exactly the same logic they're working again now. In the Commission, it turned out that the Centre Party once again does not understand anything and that Aivar Riisalu once again does not understand anything. It was argued that this terrible responsibility, which lies with the leaders of these companies, is forcing us and, above all, the councils to make precisely such wage decisions. I'm sorry, but if something happened in the private sector like that in Estonian Air, I'm afraid that chairman of the board would no longer be at large. At least he wouldn't have any business if nothing else had happened to him. This is the idea of normal capitalism, which is opposed to the Estonian state's understanding of responsibility. We are also considering all these other companies. We are talking about Estonian Railways. What kind of messages did we get from there? Lately, we haven't gotten any messages from it. The last thing that comes to mind is that, unfortunately, the reduction in capacity has to be concentrated. I may be wrong now, I'm sorry, but we're talking about 100-150 employees. I received a clear message about the Port of Tallinn when the Special Committee on State Budget Control listened to the National Audit Office's audit of the infringements committed during the construction of quay 17. This is the only message I have received as a member of Parliament about the Port of Tallinn. In addition, I have heard that there has been a slight decrease in capacity. Eesti Energia has recently been so much on our minds and tongues. Elering, of course. Who has given the company that provides social services, or energy to the Estonian people and the economy, the power to go to America to run the oil business? Is it the council? I want to know if the general meeting of the public limited company really understood when the council made such a decision. Or did the general meeting suddenly give this assignment? If the general meeting was responsible for this task, the general meeting should be asked why it did so. The Lord's sun will go down before we have a list of these problems. I asked the Minister for Economic Affairs a few days ago if he did not feel that only negative news about the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs is coming at the moment. The intersection will be designed according to a private company's instrument ( unfortunately or fortunately it has now come out and the design and construction have been shut down), we will hear about the troubles in EAS. There is no point in talking about Eesti Energia and Estonian Air anymore. If respected voters, or people, in fact, the owners of the country would make such mistakes in a broader sense, then there would be two options. First of all, they would no longer be able to breathe air because they would have put their hands on them (very many anxious people have done so in history). Secondly, if someone were to violate the owner's will as much as we could see right now, I think the owner would have done something to stop such a violation. The decision-makers, or politicians, claim that the Centre Party has gone crazy; it does not understand that these people provide these companies with the necessary management services to participate in international competition. Who is Eesti Energia competing with? It has become clear that Eesti Energia will probably no longer compete with anyone soon, because the electricity it produces is somewhat more expensive than the energy produced in the region and, as a result, will bring up the price of the Nord Pool power exchange in our trading area. Who is Estonian Railway competing with? Was Spacecom, who probably managed to make a profit of EUR 35 million as an operator on these same tracks? If he's competing with Spacecom, he's clearly lost. I think the manager should be replaced. Who is the Port of Tallinn competing with? With those trade flows that pass us to Klaipeda, Ventspils or whatever? Yes, the Port of Tallinn has done relatively well, but not so well as to suffocate from the feeling that it is unmistakable. I'm sorry, but it's probably not gonna be possible to fly from here soon, or at least we can fly from another company. Look, sweethearts, we've gotten there now that the Minister of Economic Affairs is saying that he doesn't want to be responsible, maybe he's actually okay. Another Monday of this week in this very hall, he told me when I expressed my opinion that suddenly the ministry should split in two, that I did not understand how much work he had. Although, strangely enough, this week the information came that Estonian Air and Eesti Energia should be handed over to the Ministry of Finance because they are strategic investments of the state. The deeper content of this bill is, in fact, only passionate about money and the fact that something is hopelessly out of order in our country by sharing responsibility. By saying that the Prime Minister's responsibility is not as great as the responsibility of the leaders of these companies, I can no longer agree, for the simple reason that I feel that these leaders are not responsible for anything. That is why I think our bill is completely fair and reasonable. I have some excerpts from the press here. I'm not quoting them right now. But the leader of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union spoke on 1 April 2009 about the need for a cap and Andrus Ansip said on 28 September that he did not understand how the pay of Tero Taskila had developed. So the fire is glowing somewhere under the ashes. I'm looking at the results of these companies. If we adopt this bill as a law, but for some of these leaders, this new level of pay is not appropriate, then I wish them the winds into their wings. They can go with thousands of Estonians to Finland, Germany, Norway or Sweden to get the salary that I offer them today on behalf of the Centre Party, EUR 6060 per month. Go and earn it somewhere else, because it is neither possible nor reasonable for the Estonian state to pay you such money for these performances (I have a list with you if anyone wants to, then I can read it to you in the round of questions and answers). Whenever you talk about something, it makes sense to offer compromises. The compromise position (I take the authority of the performer, the party has not authorised me to do so) is as follows. If we do not vote down this draft today and we start discussing it, as a result of the statements made by both Mr Reinsalu and the Prime Minister and the very many of your positions that are there for you, but which you do not dare to say out loud, we will write in between the first reading and the second reading, that, in the case of good economic results, we will be willing to pay these leaders a premium, perhaps even a proper premium, perhaps a much higher premium than we are accustomed to. This is the point of discussion. However, I assume that despite the Centre Party having no reason to love the current government jealously and sincerely, the Centre Party considers that the responsibility of the members of the government, headed, of course, with the Prime Minister, several times exceeds the responsibility of the people mentioned in this bill. We are honest, the owners, or the people of Estonia, would understand us much better if we were statesmen and we would take it to the horns. If even half of the people on this list (here are also members of the board, 17 people in total) leave Estonia, it will not be that great a loss next to the one hundred thousand deceased. But we have done such a thing that our country and society have thus become much better. If we cheer people who produce gross national product with their daily hands, we may have given them a little impulse to work a little better, a little more intensively and a little bit better, to increase the wealth of all of us. Let's be honest and direct: Estonia's average salary in 2012 was 839 euros, but Tero Taskila received a salary that a normal Estonian person should have earned for three years and four months. Let us not vote this draft out of the procedure, let us discuss this issue constructively. We all understand that the lifestyle of such a small faction, which has so poor results, needs to be adjusted. An extreme concession could be that we adjust this fee in a positive direction after their performance is really in order. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U258	Good waitress, you have questions. Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U259	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Thank you for your excellent speech. I think thousands of Estonians enjoyed it live. Can you explain a little bit to make people understand what we're talking about? You mentioned the average Estonian salary, you talked about this maximum rate. But why don't you remind people of the salaries of these five companies? It would make more sense what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U260	We are talking about the fact that we believe that in companies where the state has at least a decision-making power, the basic salary of the members of the board of directors should not exceed the salary of the President of the Republic of Estonia, which is EUR 6060 per month. Currently, 17 members of the management board of five companies receive a salary that exceeds the salary of the President of the Republic of Estonia. I'll give you a few examples. Tero Taskila's already gone, he's the one on the paper. The new leader of Estonian Air will receive a somewhat lower salary, i.e. a monthly salary of EUR 21000, and a salary of EUR 32000 for Tero Taskila. Sandor Liive, Head of Eesti Energia, earns 11318 euros; Kaido Simmermann, Head of Estonian Railway, earns 9768 euros. The members of the Board of Estonian Railways are also listed here. We look at the Port of Tallinn, whose chairman of the board is really poor, he earns only 7456 euros. Last in this row is the head of Air Traffic Services AS, whose salary is 6327 euros. This may not be the case now, but this is the case in this table. In fact, this is not a tragic situation. This is a fundamental decision, which in no way disrupts the economic environment in Estonia, because it affects very narrow circles of people. To be honest and frank, it was not a random comparison with Martin Luther. Let's be honest, we need shaking reforms to get rid of this lethargy when some company enjoys life and is not responsible for anything, and let the other company see how it works. Worst case, they leave Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U261	Tarmo Leinatamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U262	Thank you. I'll give you a compliment first. You and the last speaker on the remote must be so euphoria from last night's book presentation that you're creating a very emotional mood here. Thank you for that! In fact, this topic is a little wider than just salaries. I believe that public or state-owned companies do not know their objectives. They do not know whether they are strategic companies, whether they have to bring in money, or take commercial action, they do not know whether they are security providers, etc. On this basis, the content of the activities of these companies and the responsibilities of their managers should also be developed. Surely those who bring in the money could receive a little more pay than those who offer public service. As far as wages are concerned, there must be a limit somewhere. Whether this president's salary is now the right one, it must be decided in this Chamber, but in fact, it is very much on the agenda.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U263	The question wasn't right. But let's just say I couldn't attend yesterday's book presentation because I was in the Defence Forces General Staff in connection with the duties of a member of the Riigikogu and listened to the monthly briefing. Tarmo Leinatamm, member of the National Defence Commission, did not participate. In addition to my performance skills, it has certainly helped to create a mood that I watched a lot of television in my young generation, where I have remembered such a great cultural program as 'Cross Radio'. There were three fine teachers who gave me the opportunity to develop into a good speaker who can sometimes speak with such a perhaps a mildly high style of speaking statemanship. My speech made it very clear that none of these companies are now important for the security of the Estonian state. The last security aspect disappeared the moment we switched to the free electricity market. Before that, we did, at times, even with perhaps unjustified investments in oil shale energy, as if we were really trying to ensure energy independence. We have not lost this ability. I think that in a very bad situation, with the heart power of a small country and a great nation, we will finally have the opportunity to pull ourselves out of this free trade zone and say that this is it, the switch went so on that we produce electricity ourselves. But let's do it during the war. Speaking of difficult times, we're gonna blow up the railroad, because it's gonna be a battle technique for the enemy, and we're gonna try to get rid of the ports with our three mine hunters, so the enemy ships can't enter our ports, the planes won't fly at that time, because anti-aircraft can shoot them down and civil aviation has ceased to exist. Therefore, this has nothing to do with the strategy and national security.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U264	Tõnu Juul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U265	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, Your report was very good. But it didn't turn out to be companies. The company's management has three phases in a classic way. There is a board that will be affected by your proposal, plus a council and a general meeting. Mistakes have been made repeatedly in the management of some of these monopoly companies, and it has been taken to look more or less at the same rake. When you look at it as a statesman, where do you think the biggest mistake is being made right now, which should be corrected?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U266	That is a constructive question. I remember from the time I took part in private business, very clearly how this three-level management, the board, the board of directors, tended to look like the board of directors set itself up, the board of directors carried out this task, and the board punished itself for failing to carry out this task and the company's financial results were poor. We will base ourselves on what is currently taking place in these five state companies. There are, of course, isolated exceptions. The observer gets the exact impression that the board is setting itself up. Then there is some sort of council that does not actually understand very clearly what is happening in this company, because there are very random people there. The least of them are specialists, maybe some lonely ones get lost in it. The same board will set itself a task which it will, as if through the Council, confirm and then take up the task. If he does it badly, the council will say nothing to him. At the very least, he himself could be punished because the general meeting also says nothing. The general meeting said this Monday that no problems exist in any company under the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, i.e. a member of the Riigikogu, Aivar Riisalu, does not understand how much the Minister of Economic Affairs has a job, and Riisalu does not understand anything at all. As a result, I would argue that if the board level is working and inventing ever more exciting projects, such as in Jordan or Utah State in America, and all sorts of great projects, how to fly Kajaan pensioners through Tallinn, I don't know where, but there's nothing to hear from the Council and the owner says it's okay, then frankly, the very legitimate question of a good colleague is what is going on and how this three-step leadership is guaranteed. I agree we have to start somewhere. We have decided to start here because the general meeting is the Minister of the Economy. We could be populists and every week initiate mistrust by the Minister of Economic Affairs because of the various cases. Tell me where it leads! This isn't going anywhere. The general meeting thinks it's okay. A government coalition with a chance to make a difference here will do nothing. So you think it's okay. It is not possible for us to have any say in the Council, because you appoint the members of the Council. If you think the councils are adequate, then it's okay. All we can do is say things aren't okay. We can start with what's in our power. We cannot change the nature of the Council, because it is not within the competence of the legislator. We cannot change the nature of the general meeting, because it is not within our competence either. All we can do is change the laws that regulate certain instruments. At the moment, we have decided to regulate the law on state assets in order to influence the situation in such a way that, in all this state of order, there are at least normal wages which would confirm this state of order as if it were right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U267	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U268	Thank you. On at least one issue, I agree with you very much: the Prime Minister and members of the government of the Republic of Estonia earn too little, given their responsibility. But I will ask you about what has been going through the committee. Are there such examples in the world or in Europe? Why am I asking that? I have studied the Scandinavian countries, as well as Finland, which have set an example for us, and I have seen how much the managers of large public companies are serving there. The gap between average wages and the salaries of top managers is several times greater there than in Estonia, yet we know these countries as very social countries, welfare countries. Just as an example, the CEO of Fortum earns EUR 1.29 million a year, ten times as much from Sandor Liive, and the manager of TeliaSonera EUR 2.4 million a year, which is also a public undertaking. Are there any examples from other parts of the world that Parliament has designated pay ceilings for company leaders?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U269	I certainly have not even planned to give you such examples from other parts of the world, for the simple reason that we like to compare ourselves with large countries. We compare ourselves with others, depending on how we need to do it that day and how we were in the mood when we woke up this morning. So let's talk about the biggest company in Estonia. Eesti Energia is such a small company in world terms and, by the way, even in the context of the Nordic countries, that in Swedish terms, for example, it would be a self-employed person with some small turnover. As they say, he wouldn't even get his nose across the table at the big guys' table, but he'd run under the table all the time. We base ourselves on what basis Eesti Energia is operating on, for example, or how short the Estonian railway is and how unable the railway company has actually been. I remember when I had a car to haul myself in the good times, it was really tight sometimes. Ports may have done the best. But, in view of how foolishly we have been with our closest neighbours in recent years, it must be honestly said that we ourselves have done everything to ensure that the same five infrastructure companies that are supposed to provide services to society are clearly self-employed elsewhere in the world. This comparison lacks very clear content. If we take the Estonian man Peetri, who is a forest worker in Põlva County, and the forest worker Jorma somewhere on the border of Lapland and compare them, I assure you that Peter would beat me and you, a good colleague of Arto Aas, because he is not satisfied with how little he earns in Põlva County and how much Jorma earns in Finland. This comparison does not make sense. As thinking people, you understand very well that we have two options. We will then become what you promised me, by the way, in the run-up to the elections, that in five years we would be among the 15 richest countries, no, on the contrary, in 15 years we would be among the five richest countries. I've waited five years, but it's not coming from anywhere. That's the answer.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U270	Tarmo Leinatamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U271	I'm telling you, Aivar, "Crissie Radio" has never been mad. Why don't you take a look at those shows? But I want to tell you and give Arto Asa a second in the sense that maybe it's because our president and ministers are getting a little paid. I'm sure it's a very unpopular idea. Stalnukhin said hundreds of thousands of people are watching us. If that's the case, I'm sure I could be attacked by these thoughts in front of this castle. The aunt who begs there all the time comes with a sword in her hand and pierces me. I never mind people making money. If they have received their seat honestly, not through aunt or nepotism, if they have competed on terms and if the owner or council has decided to pay them both or so much, then there have been reasons for doing so. What do you think, maybe raise the president's salary to Sandor Liive's salary? Then you don't need to listen to your bill, your screaming and your screaming.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U272	Dear colleague Tarmo Leinatamm! I'm not an angry person. I can assure you for sure I'm very lame. In quoting the Estonian Express, it can be said that I am even the Minister of Social Affairs of the Centre Party. That's why I'm telling you, you might be right. Indeed, I am of the opinion that this is definitely one way, so these salaries are too low. By the way, all the people of Estonia have too little income. I've been thinking about this a lot. We're basically the same people as Finns, even drinking as much, maybe more. In this sense, we are no different from them. If we work hard, we can begin to understand Finnish very well in about one week and to make enough sentences for regular communication between our neighbours to be the same with them. The only thing we're not the same with them is the standard of living. How do we get to that? I agree that it is certainly Sandor Liive and Andrus Ansip, and whoever deserves the remuneration we are talking about here, for example, a similar remuneration to that paid in Finland. Peter, the lumberman I mentioned, certainly deserves it, and others deserve it. Maybe that's the solution. Indeed, I have not been able to figure out what to do to make life as good in Estonia as in Finland, for example. Should the state take a great deal of credit for this and at the same time raise the salaries of all teachers, military personnel, police officers, rescuers, members of the Riigikogu, members of the government and anyone who does not bring added value to the level of Finnish wages? It's like there's more money in circulation. For a moment, the state would be in debt slavery, but then there would be more tax money and we would be able to serve these loans too. Is that the solution? Or is the solution, for example, that inflation, price increases and the resulting wage pressure are moving us quietly, but very quickly to the level of Finland? Maybe it's our economic escape. Perhaps one solution is that we decide that the prime minister's salary is the highest? By the way, I'm gonna compliment him. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia is a truly good man. May God give us all the ability to act so definitely and to be so outcast when the punishment came upon us once. But the hat off, actually, the man has done well. Maybe that's the solution. But in any case, those men who do not show the economic result should be paid significantly less. That's what I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U273	Arto Aas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U274	Thank you. The draft concerns board members, but the state company employs a large number of other specialists, such as consultants or whatever experts, as well as engineers. Can there be no risk that the Chairman of the Governing Board will then earn less than an expert? Should the wages of ordinary workers also be limited? Very recent example: Estonian Air's driver's salary is now lower than that of the previous driver, but since he is accompanied by two highly paid consultants, the actual cost is more than that of Tero Taskila.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U275	Good colleague! It's the right question for a long time. I am clearly of the opinion that we do not claim to take over the decision-making level of the company's management. I recall that these are indeed companies. If the company has an economic opportunity and an internal need to hire truly qualified professionals, I think that they can be paid at times according to their qualifications or performance, if this is measurable, higher remuneration, because this decision is taken at the board level. We expect members of the board to give an adequate result to the board and the board of directors, i.e. there is a clear definition of where this company must go and what its economic outcome must be. How this is achieved is within the competence of the Governing Board, and it must really remain free to decide there. You mentioned two advisors to Palmer. This topic has been discussed today in Äripäev. However, let's be honest: who are we here now, are we, figuratively speaking, overpriced pope players who live in another world? Think a little bit about how a common citizen reads that information. Forgive me, but we are not a thing in ourselves, we are the people chosen here by the people who are supposed to be reasonable and should act in such a way that society is either out of law or out of clear stupidity. I don't want to be a prophet right now, much less I want to be an evil person. But forgive me if I asked the Prime Minister today about the future of Estonian Air, he answered honestly, hat off for it, he replied with great respect that there was no very clear plan A to say about plan B. Honestly, it was the first clear statement of recent times about Estonian Air. Then our debate at the level of the Riigikogu's board was stopped, I was deprived of the right to ask a question, and the Prime Minister was given the opportunity to speak clear nonsense in the last round of answers that no one wanted to hear from him. But that's not the question. The question is that it is relatively likely that this company will go bankrupt, and we will hear in a few months' time how some already existing operator company, whose date of establishment can be withdrawn from the business register, has started operating on these same aircraft, for example by hiring them from the manager. Is that what we want? Think, darlings! We do not live in a closed system; we have to take into account that society thinks that the country looks normal. The state company is part of a country whose idea is borne by the people of that country. Understand that! It's nothing personal. Try to understand that, dears, think about it! I knew last night I was having a hard time here tonight, and I didn't bring those images for nothing. Indeed, it is difficult. We also have thousands of other problems, by the way, where there are no good options. I have always argued in opposition and in my party that there is often no financial cover for our proposals. We must make proposals in exactly the same way, which have a clear responsibility. Why do we always have to tell you, the coalition, when making suggestions, where we get this money and what are the sources of cover, and you don't have to answer any questions? You can do one stupid thing on the other side, blow tens of millions into the wind and nothing happens. That's not right. Get this straight.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U276	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U277	Thank you. Dear waitress, Arto Aas has just asked with an incredible voice whether such a draft, as is currently being discussed, could be considered elsewhere in the world. For example, when the US banks needed state support, the salaries of the banking sector were taken under control in cooperation with the President and the Federal Reserve. In Sweden, where the state owns 37.3% of TeliaSonera, bonuses were controlled by a government decision. Listening to this scepticism, I have the following question. You mentioned that the Chairman of the IRL has also said that the salaries of the heads of state companies must be brought under control. You did not mention this point in detail, but you mentioned that it was published on 1 April. Are you sure it wasn't humor? The IRL policy does not seem to make it seem that they are trying to keep the salaries of managers of business companies paid by the state responsible.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U278	Let's be honest. By the way, I said Urmas Reinsalu said that when he was still our colleague. This took place in 2009. This happened when we were all throwing ourselves in the deepest crisis and there were considerable wage cuts. I am saying that if, in many sectors where these cuts were made, wages have not been raised again to pre-crisis levels, unfortunately, this does not apply to the managers of state-owned enterprises. Apparently, our good colleague, the current Minister for Defence and the chairman of the Fatherland and Res Publica Association, in 2009 meant that this problem has been floating quietly in society all along. It's a statesman's position to bring clarity to the house. He must be acknowledged that he dared to say it at that moment. I would like to stress once again: I proposed the option that if this debate is not closed and we are discussing the subject further, we can agree that it will be possible, for example, to pay people a performance fee for normal economic results. But I don't see the results I could do that for anywhere. You want to blame the Centre Party all the time and, above all, me for not understanding that these are companies that have nothing to do with either the Ministry or something like that. I agree with you that this is certainly one factor that could be taken as a basis. We have proposed this now. This proposal is not made of stone. Indeed, if we want to treat these companies as companies, we will treat them this way, but I expect that in a normal environment this company should also achieve a clear result. Perhaps our unfinished work is that we have not defined the result. Maybe we should work harder on that, too. After all, this is the draft law on state assets that we are dealing with. It is possible to sign up for anything that concerns the principles of the management of state assets. So, what's the problem? Do you think the Centre Party is working on populism again? That's not true. I urge you all to understand that we do not live in a closed system. Parliament is a place that should represent the interests of the broad masses, but not pursue any fossilised policy where nothing matters to us, because we are so good. You can't do that!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U279	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U280	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress, Aivar! I agree with you a lot, but I certainly disagree with you on something. I do not understand, for example, why our Prime Minister or Minister of Finance has not taken up a position as head of a state enterprise. They have an ideal opportunity for this, because political support is needed for it and they certainly have it. I think they could manage any state company. Why do they accept multiple lower wages? I think it's incomprehensible. The second misunderstanding is this. Can you tell me, Aivar, how many heads of state business would pass through the international market? There is always appeal that they are in international market competition. The third, however, is the most important and perhaps the simplest question. Ministers have often come here to complain to the Riigikogu that the salaries of the heads of state companies are high. Can you tell me, Aivar, the ministers have read the business code? After all, they are the ones who will appoint the councils that will carry out their will.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U281	Indeed, the theme circle is quite wide. I think that ministers work as ministers for this salary because not everything in life is measured by money. These people want to do this job, they're statesmen in that sense. The hat off that they've made that choice. I cannot say today which of these heads of state companies are competitive on the international market. I dare only give one example that has been proven in life. Gunnar Okk, the former leader of Eesti Energia, has made international breakthroughs. Is that what current leaders can do, I don't know. That is not the question. We are talking about a very narrow circle of citizens, as they say. In fact, a number of Councils have probably understood this and the situation has improved a lot. We are not presenting such a bill for the first time. As far as I can remember, the number of these companies has also been 12; now there are only five. There have been progressive changes in society, nothing bad has happened. I would like to state once again that these are infrastructure companies whose task is to ensure a normal energy, transport and logistical situation in the Estonian economy, so that the normal economy, normal capitalism can develop and ensure an increase in the gross national product, as well as an increase in the overall well-being. Try to understand that this is a micropart of society and the economy as a whole. That's not the disaster our opponents are trying to find. It's okay, our airline might as well end its existence. As the Prime Minister said today, it is not entirely certain what will happen. Of the members of the Riigikogu, Arto Aas would be very well placed to lead Estonian Air. He knows everything very accurately, he has tongues in his mouth, he's a young, active person, and we give him a chance. Estonian Energy could be led very successfully by Kaja Kallas, because he knows what energy means. He's had a lot of contact with it as a lawyer, and all the crutches are clear to him. Who else could be promoted here? Dr. July, for example, could be promoted very well to Estonian Railways. [[The cavalry.]] Lauri Laas isn't good yet because she's too young. Now, ladies and gentlemen, there's something that you can understand. We are talking today about a small but important signal to society. None of us are forbidden to live well. We all want it. Let us, then, make sure that the broadest possible share of the population lives well and that the infrastructure companies we are talking about in this bill understand that the end result is important and that the well-being of their leaders can depend on the end result, not just that they are beautiful. You can't do that!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U282	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U283	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleague Aivar! Your performance is embodied in personia, until you share your seats. I'm glad to hear that. However, in the much-spoken Estonian Air, one of the "peak leaders" of the neighbouring country was exchanged for another high-paid leader in the neighbouring country. Southern Estonian men say that an Estonian businessman would have done the same result with much less money. My question, too, concerns personality. Tell me, please, who in the end should be responsible for what has happened in Estonian Air? Is this a general meeting, the Council, the Prime Minister, the government, or is it someone else? Who could it be?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U284	In purely commercial terms, members of the board of directors should be responsible. If the board members can prove that the council is co-responsible, they will all go to jail together. It doesn't make much sense to go after the owner on the basis of business-law pragmatics, because the owner knows what he's doing with his property. The problem is that we, being all good citizens of Estonia, are the owners of Estonian Air, and we have, through the elections, sort of authorized us to represent a man. Whether or not his responsibility exists here, it is very difficult to say from this remote control. It is rather a question of the internal appeal of this authorised representative. Unless someone else, such as the head of government, tells him he's done worse than he thought. The reason is very simple: the status of the representative of its owners is not higher than that of the Prime Minister. I am not an evil person, and I am once again telling you that this is not a question of mistrusting one or another minister or, as they say, of looking for the guilty. The question is quite simple: if we were working, we would live the way people live around us, and if we did a good job, we would have the opportunity to earn more, for example. It's as simple as that! If it didn't go well, you can't take your salary away from anyone when it's agreed. It is simply a question of what kind of wage money we agree on. We should agree on a salary so that the owner, or people, wouldn't be upset, would be happy, and, being the owner, would do his thing in a good mood, wouldn't worm somewhere sadly, that they could do anything there, but there's nothing I can do. That is our role, nothing can be done, whether we like it or not. We have voluntarily taken this role by signing a declaration that we wish to stand as a candidate in the elections to the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U285	Ülo Tulik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U286	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good colleague! In the report, one comparison struck the ear. You compared Eesti Energia to some Nordic self-employed people. You have once said that the self-employed should be abolished from Estonia at all. But last year, the biggest investment in Võrumaa was made by the self-employed. But I didn't come here to protect the self-employed. My question is as follows. Do you see a similar problem at local government level in the remuneration of various board members? If you see this, do you intend to solve this problem with the help of the Riigikogu?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U287	Thank you, good questioner! I tried to compare the size of two companies using this self-image. It wasn't meant in any way to disparage the self-employed. Let's just say that Eesti Energia is a little more self-employed than that company in Võrumaa who made the biggest turnover in the county or whatever. Perhaps it was a failed figure, but I admit that if the rules are established in Parliament and these rules should also be extended to local government companies (I understand very well where you are going, for example, to run some companies in the capital of the Republic of Estonia), they are certainly equal to others before the law. The status of a member of the Council, the finding and appointment of their members, and how much specialists should be involved, etc., are, in fact, still a matter of its own, which certainly deserves to be discussed. I'm saying you're trying to say that it's like the Centre Party is living a two-faced life that we're doing this here, but that's where we keep this right. It's not like that. The laws that establish the parliament of the Republic of Estonia are such beautiful and apply equally to all institutions and persons in Estonia. If they have any influence on Tallinn's government, then they will certainly be implemented there too, because compliance with the laws is a sacred duty of all of us. If we don't, we're going to jail. There's a man out there.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U288	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Arto Asa, member of the Economic Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu, will present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U289	Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed this draft on 13 December last year. Aivar Riisalu, representative of the initiator of the draft, and Tarmo Carrots, acting acting Deputy Head of the Treasury Department of the Ministry of Finance were invited. Aivar Riisalu, representative of the initiator of the draft act, presented an overview of the objectives and content of the draft act. The draft is intended to limit the fees paid by companies in which the State has at least the power of decision and by members of the boards of foundations established with the participation of the State in such a way that the monthly remuneration paid does not exceed EUR 6000, i.e. EUR 72000 per year. According to the Ministry of Finance, in 2011 five of the 30 companies with state decision-making powers exceeded this limit for the board member. These were Estonian Air, Eesti Energia, Elering, Estonian Railway and the Port of Tallinn. When the performance fees of the members of the management board were also taken into account, Air Traffic Services AS crossed this border. None of the foundations established by the State paid fees to the members of the Board in 2011 above the threshold set out in the draft. Acting Deputy Head of the Public Assets Department of the Ministry of Finance Tarmo Carrots presented the positions of the Government of the Republic, provided further explanations and answered questions. The Government of the Republic does not support the establishment of an absolute limit for the remuneration of a member of the Executive Board. The general purpose of the State Property Act is to enable the State to act in a private manner. This requires the application of the principles of private law, including the competitiveness and efficiency of a private legal person. If the law imposes a limit on the remuneration and therefore the remuneration of the board member should be set at, for example, lower than the market price, there may be a risk that public undertakings will be deprived of qualified and experienced managers. The limitation would apply to companies belonging to Estonia's largest organisations, which have a significant impact and importance on the Estonian economy as a whole. They also have to cope with international competition. The members of the management board must therefore be found among the competent people, with the need to pay competitive remuneration compared to the remuneration paid to members of the management boards of companies of similar size and importance operating in the private sector, as well as international wage conditions. The Commercial Code and the Foundations Act provide that the Boards must take into account, when determining the fees of the members of the Board, that they correspond to the duties of the member of the Board and to the economic situation of the company or foundation. The company board must assess the overall level of pay in this business sector and which salary is considered acceptable. There was, of course, a round of questions and debate in the Committee on Economic Affairs. The topic of Estonian Air was discussed at length, the international plans of Eesti Energia were discussed and Gunnar Ok's departure from the head of Eesti Energia was recalled. There was talk about the relationship between results and remuneration and the responsibility of managers, whether such a restriction applies in another European country and how Tallinn behaves in its companies. Overall, although individual errors have been made in the management of state-owned enterprises, they are generally well managed and effectively managed. State-owned companies are not public authorities; their employees are not civil servants. Thus, the opinion that Estonia must be able to become capable and internationally competitive leaders for its state companies remained dominant in the Committee on Economic Affairs. The restrictions in the draft act reduce these possibilities. Finally, I will talk about the Commission's decisions. First, it was decided to send the draft law amending the State Assets Act, initiated by the Estonian Centre Party Group, to the Riigikogu for the first reading on 15 January 2013 (by 6 members of the Commission, 2 against and no one abstained). Secondly, it was decided to propose that the draft be rejected (with 6 Commission members, 2 against and no abstentions). Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U290	Good waitress! You have questions. Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U291	Thank you. You said in your report that wage restraint could lead to the risk of state companies losing these leaders. Can you answer the question of how the salaries of the directors of companies belonging to the Estonian state will work in comparison with the wages of other Estonian top executives, whether they are competitive or whether there are really large gaps?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U292	Thank you. Before asking the question, I gave a few examples of how the managers of such companies have been remunerated in the Nordic countries. These salaries are very high compared to the wages of the managers of Estonian companies. The salary of the Head of Eesti Energia can be compared to the salary of the Head of Fortum, which was 1.29 million euros a year. Estonian Air's managers' salary can be compared to the salary of Finnair's manager, which is EUR 778000 per year, or EUR 65000 per month. This salary is twice as high as Taskila or Palmer's. We have a lot of examples of airBaltic success. Its previous manager received EUR 36000 per month, with a new manager receiving EUR 28000 per month. So it can be said that, in international comparison, these salaries are nothing special. I don't know if you have to be proud of it, but let's keep it that way. It has also been said here that this is not an international competitiveness, and we should not compare ourselves with others. Let's keep it that way. But I also have data from the salary survey of Estonian top executives last year. The purpose of this draft is to set an annual salary limit of EUR 72000. The salaries of Estonian top executives, executive directors are generally higher, and the average wage of employees of this level in Estonia is 82000 euros. If we compare the size of companies, the average annual salary for these workers is EUR 95000 in companies with 500 and more employees. If we look at companies that are comparable to the port or Estonian Railway, not to mention Eesti Energia, which has been valued as Estonia's most valuable company, then in such large companies, the board member's salary is already more than 100000 euros, even 165000 euros in a higher decile. This means that the threshold set within Estonia would be twice as much as the market price on the basis of which wages were paid in private companies in Estonia last year. Of course, it should be added that, very often, stock options are offered to the managers of large companies, the possibility of obtaining participation in the company in the event of good work. We know that this will never happen in public companies. In this sense, there is no anomaly either, given the current wage levels. That's what these salaries are. We clap hands when the former Hansapankers return to Estonia. Those top executives and talent that we expect in Estonia will only come to work with a very high salary. I certainly do not agree that Eesti Energia is some kind of self-sized dwarf company. It has a turnover of over EUR 900 million, a profit of over EUR 200 million, a dividend of EUR 70 million to the State. It is a very large and very profitable company. In fact, it is sad that this whole discussion is largely focused on Estonian Air. I completely agree that this is a very embarrassing story and the great fiasco that has happened there. But in my opinion, laws and political decisions must not be made on the basis of an anomaly. The anomalies are constantly and everywhere. As far as I know, Estonian Air is the only state-owned company that is loss-making, the rest are in profit.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U293	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U294	Thank you, good manager. Good waitress! Estonia has a budget of 7.5 billion euros. Last year, RMK's manager's salary increase from EUR 6 000 to EUR 7 000 was highly controversial, as was the salary of Estonian Air's manager. The Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of the Environment and others expressed their surprise about this. Couldn't you recommend to the ministers that they read the Commercial Code? According to the Commercial Code, they can call the Council back any minute and do not even have to justify it. Why don't they take this opportunity if they don't like the work of the council?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U295	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U296	Thank you. We did not talk about this in the Commission. But in a very brief reply, it can be said that these councils have also been replaced. Estonian Air has a completely new council, allegedly very competent. Erkki Raasuke is one of Estonia's top leaders. Politicians have been expelled from that council. Let's see if there's a better result. In this sense, I agree with you that ministers can change management, and that is what must be done if the management fails.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U297	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good waitress! You mentioned that there was a debate in the Commission on Estonian Air. The final conclusion was that all these companies have done well and effectively. Later, you said that Estonian Air was kind of an anomaly. My question is this: did the Committee on Economic Affairs really give Estonian Air the high assessment you mentioned here? However, what assessment did the Committee on Economic Affairs make of this company's work?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U298	Thank you. I began my conclusion by saying that individual mistakes have been made in the management of state-owned companies. I didn't see any people on the Commission who would have expressed the opinion that everything was fine in Estonian Air. However, I must remember when the Committee on Economic Affairs visited Estonian Air. So Tero Taskila gave us a presentation. Let's face it, he was a convincing and good salesman. No member of the coalition or opposition stood up and said that Taskila was full of shit. This is a very complicated case. I believe this is a lesson for everyone. It's wise to be good in retrospect, of course, but nobody saw it coming, neither the opposition nor the coalition. Very briefly, Estonian Air is an anomaly. The members of the Economic Commission also shared this conviction.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U299	Viktor Vassilyev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U300	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You shared very instructive information about how much is paid by Estonian Air and Finnair's chairman of the board. I didn't remember the Finnish salary. But what percentage of income tax is refunded to the State by the Chairman of the Board of Estonian Air and Finnair?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U301	In Finland, income tax is certainly higher, I am aware of that, but what this exact net amount is, I owe the answer. It wasn't discussed, and I don't have that information either.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U302	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U303	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I have a very brief question about Estonian Air again. Who is still responsible for this situation? Can you tell me? There are three levels. But who's responsible?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U304	One man in charge has been released today, and the council has been replaced. The opposition still has the means to show its mind when they think that a minister or someone else has failed to do their job. It's very clear in the Commercial Code when someone's responsible. Were the mismanagements deliberate or not? If anyone can prove that the company was deliberately brought into such a situation, we are talking about material responsibility and this is a separate issue. This is likely to mean criminal investigation, etc. At the moment, I have no record of anyone deliberately bringing the company into this position.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U305	Kadri Simson, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U306	Thank you. Dear Commission waitress, A few years ago, Estonian state companies had such a problem that the councils were unable to contain additional fees or performance fees for board members. There were cases where the performance fee amounted to an annual salary. As no action was taken by the councils, this decision came to the Riigikogu, amended the law and imposed a restriction on the members of the boards of state companies to pay a performance fee of more than four months. There was a need for this decision because the remuneration did not seem fair. The Riigikogu had the opportunity to limit the salaries paid. Is it now the unwillingness to limit wages because the majority of the Economic Commission and probably also the Chamber of the Riigikogu think that these salaries are fair?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U307	We did not discuss this from the point of view of whether wages were fair or not. In a very brief way, I shall speak again, summing up the content of the debate. Firstly, the general philosophy, the state-law side: there are private commercial companies and public authorities, and the state, which are two different things. Secondly, there may be cases in practice where a person needs to be found to run a business for a higher salary. Whether it's fair or not, I don't know. As such, we did not vote on this point in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U308	Mikhail Stalnukhin, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U309	Thank you, Mr President. Good colleague! I will continue with this question, which was started by Viktor Vassilyev. I have a very good friend who lives and works in London. He came to Estonia for the turn of the year and told this story. He got a paycheck for a good job, but he got 0.2% of the money. It's quite impossible to believe, but it's true. This illustrates very well the tax system. Is it really right to compare the salaries of the managers of our public limited liability companies with those of the managers of similar companies in other countries of the European Union, because, in fact, even more money is available to the managers of our companies?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U310	I certainly do not think that if Sandor Liive's annual salary, which is EUR 136000, were to deduct taxes, he would have more to pay than the leader of TeliaSonera, who received EUR 2.4 million. This tax rate is now not so high. I used the data that's available online. These figures generally refer to gross wages. The opposition blames us for how small wages are in Estonia and how large they are in Scandinavia. We are usually talking about gross wages, including those paid by teachers and doctors. I have rarely seen studies comparing net incomes. I apologize if the comparison of these data does not satisfy you! But I don't have any better data, and that's common practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U311	Enn Frontland, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U312	Thank you very much. Honourable waitress! By listening with steel, your answer to Eldar Efendiev's question was even a hint of the opposition's next steps. That's it. As one of the leading parliamentary politicians of the Reform Party, do you consider what has been decided that in future, Estonian Air will belong to the Ministry of Finance and not to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U313	Thank you. We did not discuss this in the Committee on Economic Affairs. According to recent information, this decision has not yet been taken by the government, which was the opinion of the Minister for Economic Affairs. But in this sense, I share the idea in the Prime Minister's briefing today that moving one company from one ministry to another is not going to solve these problems. At the moment, perhaps the problem is that the Ministry of Economic Affairs is too big, one minister and the chancellor have too many areas and businesses to run. But I really do not think that a quick solution would be to bring the Ministry of Aviation, Jürgen Ligi, for example, to make the problems disappear. I will say in the background that, in Europe and in the world, there have probably been only a few airlines in profit over the last few years. We read the news every week about airlines going bankrupt. There are very difficult times in aviation. Overall, the welfare of aviation and the number of passengers in the world are closely linked to gross domestic product. If there is a deep economic crisis, aviation will also suffer very seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U314	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Do the groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. The position of the Steering Committee is that draft 301 should be rejected at first reading. Let us begin the preparation of the vote on the proposal. I am voting on the position of the commission that draft 301 should be rejected at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. There were 39 members of the Riigikogu, 15 against and 1 abstention. Draft 301 has been rejected at first reading and falls out of the procedure. The fourth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U315	Let's move on to item five. The second reading of the draft Act approving Annex 9 to the International Convention on the Coordination of Border Control Conditions for Goods initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask Olga Sõtnik, member of the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu, to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U316	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen, This draft law was discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs on 10 December last year. There was no discussion and no amendments to this draft were tabled. Therefore, the Commission decided by consensus to send the draft Act approving Annex 9 to the International Convention on the Coordination of Border Control of Goods, initiated by the Government of the Republic, to the Riigikogu for a second reading on 16 January, to propose that the second reading of bill 269 be completed and adopted as a law. Both decisions were taken by consensus. I merely mention that during the course of the procedure of this draft law, it became clear that Annex 9 submitted for regularisation already applies to the Republic of Estonia from 30 November 2011. Its Annex was approved by the Council of the European Union on 25 May 2010 and the text of the Annex was published in the Official Journal of the European Union on the day of its entry into force. The purpose of the Act is to comply with § 25 (1) of the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, according to which the foreign contract is amended in accordance with the same procedure as the conclusion of the foreign contract, unless otherwise provided for in the foreign contract. We sent a letter to the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu to discuss whether it is appropriate and necessary to approve the ex post of foreign contracts already in force, published in the Official Journal of the European Union or the law on these amendments in the Riigikogu. We suggested that since the Foreign Relations Act is an area of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, they could consider the need and possibility of amending the current version of § 25. The Committee on Foreign Affairs replied that, since they considered this to be a wider problem that needed further analysis by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, it was decided to go to the end of this draft and adopt it as a law. That is why I propose to you that bill 269 be passed as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U317	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. No amendments to bill 269 have been received. The position of the lead committee is that a final vote should be taken at second reading. Let us begin the preparation of the final vote. Can we go to the vote? I shall put draft 269 to the vote. Please take a stand and vote. There were 32 members of the Riigikogu in favour, no respondents or abstentions. Draft Act 269 on the approval of Annex 9 to the International Convention on the Coordination of Control of Goods, initiated by the Government of the Republic, has been adopted as a law. The fifth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U318	Let's move on to item six. The second reading of the draft law implementing Regulation (EU) No 211/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the Citizens' Initiative initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask Andrei Korobeinik, member of the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu, to present this speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U319	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you briefly what has happened between the first reading and the second reading of Bill 276. I recall that this is a transposition of Regulation No 211/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council. This regulation concerns the authentication of persons participating in the citizens' initiative. This is quite a technical matter. Amendments could be tabled until 21 November last year. They weren't received. The draft came back on the agenda of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on 3 December last year. An official of the Ministry of Justice was present at the hearing. Only financing needed clarification. One citizens' initiative could cost the National Information Systems Agency EUR 5000 10,000. It is very difficult to predict how many such initiatives could come in a year, for example. It is important to mention that even if citizens' initiatives take place in the same online environment, this online environment needs to be re-examined each time. We have agreed that the necessary funds will be taken from the Government's reserve fund, which means that this year's state budget will not be affected, as the reserve fund will also be available for this year. The Commission decided to put the draft on the agenda of the plenary session today and to propose that the second reading be closed (decided by consensus). Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U320	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Thank you very much, Andrei Korobeinik. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. No amendments were tabled to the draft law. The commission's proposal was that the second reading of draft 276 should be completed. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U321	We're going to the next point. This is the second reading of item No 7 of the draft law amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to present the Chair of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, Sven Sester.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U322	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, who have stayed in this Chamber! At second reading, I will give you an overview of the draft law amending the Income Tax Act. This is a bill bearing number 275. Let me briefly talk about the purpose of the draft. The aim is to eliminate the unequal treatment of contractual investment funds and similar funds established in other European Economic Area countries in the taxation of real estate income. The problem was raised by the European Commission in the framework of infringement proceedings. The income of the contract fund established in Estonia has not been taxed and the income tax is paid by investors when they receive money from the fund. However, this foreign contractual fund must pay income tax as soon as it receives income in Estonia, as we will not have the possibility to tax this income later. In order to put an end to this difference of treatment, the bill also provides for the taxation of real estate income received by Estonian contractual funds in Estonia at the time of its service. The situation of foreign funds will not change if the law enters into force. The change in pension funds is not relevant. In addition, the draft provides some wordingual clarifications in other provisions on the taxation of securities income. The draft will enter into force on 1 January 2014. I will say a few words about the procedure that took place in the Commission after the first reading. No proposals were received from the Riigikogu by the deadline for submitting amendments. The Commission discussed the draft on 10 December and last year. a on 14 January, and has made a consensually one technical amendment to the draft: to improve comprehension and readability, the provision contains a precise text instead of a reference. The amendment is further explained in the list of amendments. The Commission discussed the opinion expressed in the context of the draft procedure, according to which the draft would render investments made by a natural person through an investment fund less taxed than direct investment. The question concerned certain interest paid by credit institutions on the deposit and dividend income that are exempt for a natural person. This is the issue raised by a law firm. According to the explanations provided by the Finance Committee of the specialists of the Ministry of Finance, this draft does not change the current tax regime on these matters. The draft provides for clarification in this area, which sets out more clearly the rules on taxation. By granting the same tax exemptions as the natural persons in question to the collective investment undertaking, it would have a clear advantage over other forms of investment. For example, natural persons do not have the possibility to deduct costs and losses related to these examples before tax, as is the case with the funds in particular. It is not possible to ensure absolute neutrality in the taxation of income earned through different investment funds and to look at all the advantages and disadvantages of tax rules in a specific investment form in the collection. Therefore, the net income and tax amounts earned through a different form of investment from a particular asset may vary. The Commission was also interested in comparing the taxation of contractual investment funds and natural persons with neighbouring countries. The Commission stated that it was difficult to make a comparison, and this has to be done in general terms, as tax systems vary between countries, preferences and tax levels vary. In this sense, they are certainly difficult to compare. Finally, the Commission made consensual decisions: to close the second reading of the draft and, if the second reading is completed, to do a third reading on 23 January. a. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U323	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions for the rapporteur. Thank you, Sven Sester! Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. Let us examine the amendment tabled by the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Governing Commission's proposal was to take full account of this. It's been reviewed. The commission's proposal was to conclude the second reading of draft 275. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U324	The eighth item is the second reading of the draft law amending the Planning Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to present the Chair of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Mr Arto Asa!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U325	Hello again! The draft law amending the Planning Act 247 was in the Riigikogu's first reading on 26 September 2012. Let me remind you briefly that we are talking about the planning of the structures of the lines (roads, railways, gas pipelines and high-voltage lines). The purpose of the draft law is to facilitate the adoption of the planning of these buildings in such a way that, once entered in the county plan, it must automatically be entered in the general plan of the local government within 30 days. No amendments were received from members of the Riigikogu, political groups or other committees by the deadline for submitting amendments, 10 October 2012 at 18 o'clock. The Commission received a proposal from the initiator's representative to add three amendments to the draft. The first concerned the coordination of plans, the second concerned the entry into force of already established regional plans, and the third concerned the development of the Nature Conservation Act. The Ministry of Defence also called on the Commission to reduce the administrative burden for the Ministry in coordinating planning. In writing, the Economic Commission was approached by the Landowners' Association of the NGO. Between the first reading and the second reading, and more specifically, on 26 October, the preparatory working group of the draft, led by me as the leading manager, met with people from the Ministry of the Interior, the Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu, the Road Administration, Harju County Government, the Estonian Cities Association and the Estonian Association of Rural Governments. In other words, Estonia's best experts in this field were together. We discussed the issues raised in the working group at first reading and the new proposals received and then finalised them for decision by the Committee on Economic Affairs. The commission discussed amendments to the draft law amending the Planning Act and further processing of the draft at its meetings on 5 November, 19 November and 3 December last year. Martina Proosa, Head of the Planning Department of the Ministry of Interior and Külli Heinla, Legal Adviser to the Regional Development Department, participated in the meetings. The representatives of the initiator of the draft act gave further explanations on the amendments and answered the questions raised by the members of the committee. The Committee on Economic Affairs decided to take full account of all the proposals proposed for discussion by the group. Their more precise content and list can be found in the explanatory memorandum to the draft. I'd love to introduce them later. It should be noted that no substantial changes were made to the original text of the draft. Today, the main objective of the draft is to reduce red tape and administrative burdens. Finally, I will talk about the decisions of the Committee on Economic Affairs. The commission adopted the decision to send the draft law amending the planning law initiated by the Government of the Republic to the Riigikogu for a second reading on 16 January 2013 with a proposal to conclude the second reading. When the second reading is completed, it is proposed to refer the draft to the third reading on 23 January 2013 with a proposal for the adoption of the draft as a law. There were 7 Commission members in favour of the decisions, no one opposed, with 4 abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-16_U326	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Arto Aas! Is there a desire to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Let us examine the amendments. The first proposal is from the Committee on Economic Affairs; the lead committee has taken the proposal fully into account. The second amendment is from the Committee on Economic Affairs, which has been fully taken into account by the commission. The third amendment is from the Committee on Economic Affairs; the proposal of the commission is to take this amendment fully into account. The fourth amendment is from the Committee on Economic Affairs; the lead committee has proposed that this amendment be fully taken into account. The fifth amendment is also from the Committee on Economic Affairs; the lead committee has proposed that this amendment be fully taken into account. The sixth amendment is from the Committee on Economic Affairs; the lead committee has proposed that this amendment be fully taken into account. The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 247. Second reading is complete. We have finished working on today's agenda points. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 6.34 p.m.
