ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good afternoon. Prime Minister, welcome. We will begin the Monday session of the seventh working week of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U2	Urbo Vaarmann, an alternate member of the Riigikogu, is based in connection with the resignation of Aadu Black, a member of the Riigikogu. Let's hear the oath of Urbo Vaarmanni. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U3	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! By taking up my duties as a member of the Riigikogu as part of the XII Riigikogu, I swear to remain faithful to the Republic of Estonia and its constitutional order.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U4	Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U5	Now you can hand over drafts and inquiries. Please, Mrs. Heili Tõnisson, representative of the Government of the Republic!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U6	Madam President, thank you very much. Good Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic today initiates six draft laws and submits seven draft resolutions of the Riigikogu. Firstly, the draft law amending and repealing legislation in relation to the revision of legislation. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Justice, when dealing with the bill. Secondly, the draft law amending the European Parliament Election Act. Hanno Pevkur, Minister of Justice, also represents the Government of the Republic of Estonia when processing this draft. Thirdly, the draft law amending the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act and the Unemployment Insurance Act. In the Riigikogu, the Government of the Republic is represented by the Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas, when the bill is being processed. Fourthly, the draft law amending the Act on Creative Persons and Creative Unions and related amendments to other laws. Rein Lang, Minister of Culture, will represent the Government of the Republic in the Riigikogu when processing this draft. Fifthly, the draft Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of the Republic of Uzbekistan on the prevention of double taxation and the prevention of tax evasion by means of taxes on income and capital. In the Riigikogu, the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the draft law. Sixthly, the draft law amending the Public Information Act, the Electronic Communications Act and the Emergency Act. The Government of the Republic shall be represented by Juhan Parts, Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, when processing this draft. Seventhly, the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Accepting Estonia based on Knowledge" of the Estonian strategy for research and development and innovation 2014 Jaak Aaviksoo, Minister of Education and Science, will represent the Government of the Republic in the Riigikogu when processing the draft. Eighthly, the extension of the deadline for the use of the Defence Forces by the Riigikogu in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the post-conflict peace-building mission in Lebanon, Israel, Egypt and Syria. Ninthly, the draft of the Riigikogu decision 'Extension of the term of use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the peace-building mission in Afghanistan'. Tenth, the extension of the term of the Riigikogu's decision to use the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the peace-building mission in Kosovo. By the eleventh, the extension of the deadline for the use of the Defence Forces by the Riigikogu in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the European Union Training Mission and the United Nations Peace Mission in Mali. By the twelfth, extension of the deadline for the use of the Defence Forces by the Riigikogu in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian state in the composition of NATO's reaction forces. 13th, the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Use of the Defence Forces in the performance of the international obligations of the Estonian State in the work of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation or the international military headquarters of the European Union'. Urmas Reinsalu, Minister of Defence, represents the Government of the Republic in the proceedings of the aforementioned six draft decisions of the Riigikogu in the Riigikogu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U7	Thank you. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U8	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I will hand over, together with my colleagues, the inquiry from the Centre Party Group to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. The inquiry concerns international cooperation with Interpol. The Republic of Estonia joined Interpol on 4 November 1992. All Ministers of the Interior, all governments have considered Interpol to be a very important cooperation partner, because one of Interpol's important tasks is to try to apprehend internationally wanted persons in cooperation with the Member States. However, the current Minister of the Interior has designated Interpol as a post office or data entry agency. In this context, and in all its role in cooperation between Interpol and Estonia, we ask the Prime Minister how he, as Head of Government, assesses his cooperation with Interpol so far. We're asking about the mechanism to get the wanted ads on Interpol's website. Does the Prime Minister think it's necessary that we belong to Interpol? And more specifically, we're asking about an incident involving an IRL member being abducted on Interpol's website. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U9	On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted 13 drafts. The Management Board decides to accept them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. I have also accepted an inquiry. If it complies with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, I shall forward it to the addressee without delay. Now to the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: first, the Social Committee of the Riigikogu. a draft law amending the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act, the Unemployment Insurance Act and the State Family Benefits Act, initiated on 24 October, the Committee on Social Affairs; secondly, the Constitutional Committee of the Riigikogu. a Draft Act amending the Act on replying to the letter of formal notice and request for clarification initiated on 24 October and the Law on the Home and Working Procedures of the Riigikogu, Committee on Constitutional Affairs. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the Government of the Republic s. The following drafts were submitted to the Committee on European Union Affairs on 24 October 2004: Firstly, Estonia's views on the draft Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the prevention and management of the introduction and spread of invasive alien species. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Environment Committee to give an opinion on the positions and draft regulation of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the opinion is 7 November at 4 p.m. Secondly, Estonia's views on the eCall package. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Committee on Legal Affairs to give an opinion on the positions, decision and draft regulation of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the opinion is 14 November at 4 p.m. On 24 October, members of the Riigikogu formed a group of parliaments of Latin America. Now, ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 78 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present, no 23. Let's get to the adoption of this week's agenda. I am voting on the agenda for the seventh working week of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Please take a stand and vote. 79 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no one was against or impartial. The agenda is confirmed. We come to today's agenda, which includes responses to inquiries.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U10	The first question to be discussed is the question of the possible conflict of interest of the members of the Riigikogu, Sven Mikser, Andres Anvelt, Heljo Pikhofi, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Jaak Allik, Helmen Küüti, Karel Rüütli, Eiki Nestor, Urve Palo, Indrek Saare, Jaan Õunapuu, Kajar Lemberi, Neeme Suur and Rein Randver, submitted on 16 September 2013 in connection with the application of county elders for municipal elections. The inquiry has been submitted to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. On behalf of the heirs, please speak to Jaak Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U11	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Mr Prime Minister! In the local elections held on 20 October, 12 county elders were nominated for city and parish councils, five of whom were also elected. As it turns out, none of them are going to work for the council. Six mayors gathered less than 30 votes in these elections. It has also been found that some of the lists in which the county elders applied have proved to be part of the coalition during the new period of government, while others have been part of the opposition. The Social Democrats do not question the constitutional right of any citizen to stand for election. At the same time, there are concepts such as the honour and conflict of interest of a civil servant. Our President and Prime Minister could also stand for local elections, but they have never done so, for which we also congratulate you, Mr Prime Minister. For a longer time, it was equally obvious that the county elders would not stand in the local elections simply as a voter for some political parties. Chapter 6 of the Act of the Government of the Republic, § 84, provides for the competence of a county governor. One important task is to monitor the activities of the local government. § 83 (6) of the same Act and also the Local Government Organisation Act prohibit a rural municipality or city council member. It is not by chance that the legislator has laid down the prohibition of reconciling these roles as absolute, unlike the role of a member of the Riigikogu or the Government of the Republic, where the mandate of a member of the council stops. In our view, it is obvious that if the mayor applies for the membership of the body under his supervision on the list of political forces that govern the body, or if the mayor elected to the council renounces the mandate, but the vote given to him allows the council and the municipality to be led by a particular political force, there will be a conflict of interest within the meaning of § 25 of the old version of the Anti-Corruption Act. In the new version of the Act, it has been replaced by the concept of a related person's operating restrictions pursuant to § 11. I must apologise to the Prime Minister that there is a reference in our inquiry to the old version of the law, to which we were led by the opening of the concept of 'conflict of interest' on the website of the Ministry of Justice, but the content of the problem in its recasting in the new version of the law does not change. In a democratic country, as Estonia calls itself, it is important that things not only exist but also seem to be correct. In this regard, we have six questions for you, Prime Minister, the core of which is the desire to know your position on how to ensure that the rural elders' supervision of the activities of the local authorities in which they applied for councils appear to be impartial in the future. We ask you, Prime Minister, to answer these questions as a statesman and Prime Minister, not as the chairman of an interested party. At the same time, it seems incredible that state officials appointed by the government to their positions would have applied for local elections without the consent of their employer, the Government of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U12	Thank you very much. I request Prime Minister Andrus Ansip of the Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U13	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Honourable Riigikogu! I'll answer your question. The first question: 'Do you consider it legally correct that the county governor supervises the activities of the local government during the election campaign in a situation where he himself is applying for the same local government council? " Every Estonian citizen has the right to apply for membership of the Riigikogu, the local government council and the European Parliament. According to § 5 of the Local Government Council Election Act, members of the frame defence forces and persons convicted of a crime and serving a prison sentence cannot apply. The prohibition of applying for other reasons is contrary to the constitutional rights of people. Pursuant to § 83 (6) of the Government Act, a may not hold any other elected or appointed office outside the duties of the governor. If a mayor applies for the local government council, he or she shall either waive the mandate of a council member or be dismissed and enter the local government council. The legislator has therefore not provided for the need to ban the application. In his work, the mayor must also follow the code of ethics of the public service, according to which an official is a citizen of the public service, and must exercise public authority only in the public interest. The second question: 'How is the political neutrality of the supervision carried out by the mayor guaranteed in a situation where the mayor is a candidate on the list of political parties that are in opposition with an existing municipal or municipal government? ' Pursuant to § 85 (1) of the Government Act of the Republic, the mayor supervises the legality of administrative acts and, in the cases and to the extent provided for by the Act, the legality and rationality of the use of state assets. The mayor also supervises the quality of the services provided by local authorities and the legality of the various operations. The basis for supervision is based on specific specific laws and in several cases they are further regulated in the list of priorities and procedures for supervision by the Government of the Republic or the respective Ministry. The neutrality of a rural parent is also guaranteed by the possibilities of judicial review of decisions. If a local authority considers that its rights have been unduly violated during the supervision process, it shall be able to refer the matter to an independent court. Landlords must follow the principles defined by the State in their monitoring activities. The third question: "What ensures that the mayor does not carry out his personal election campaign when he receives a salary as a public official for supervising the activities of the local government body in which he is a candidate? ' Good electoral practice has been established, which the Association of Estonian Nonprofit Associations and Foundations will follow and comment with the volunteers of the elections before and during the elections. The ministries have also established sound principles and criteria for the supervision of rural parents. In addition, every resident of Estonia has the right and obligation to draw attention if his or her activities are not governed by the legal order in force. As far as I am aware, no complaints were received about the county elders who participated in the last municipal elections. Question 4: 'Whereas the election list, in which the mayor is nominated, passes to the council and participates in the formation of the local government bodies, can and can the future control of the rural governor's activities be held impartially? ' The fifth question is that if the political forces on whose list the mayor is running are allowed to enter the council and remain in opposition there, that will ensure that the governor's supervision continues to be neutral in monitoring the activities of the local authority's authority. I will answer these questions together. Once again, the mayor is guided by the law in his actions. The mayor is an official and officials must follow the code of ethics of the public service. It requires the official to be politically neutral in his/her activities. Even if you do not stand as a candidate, the party membership of a county governor may coincide with the coalitions of some local government councils in the county or also with opposition political forces. Question 6: Should there not be a requirement in the law that, when applying for the local government council, a county governor should suspend his or her duties during the election campaign in order to rule out the situation of conflicts of interest as set out in § 25 of the Anti-Corruption Act? ' You've already done it yourself, but I'm going to go over it again because I have a written text in front of me. As of 1 April 2013, the Anti-corruption Act on which the parties to the inquiry are based is invalid. The law currently in force does not define conflicts of interest in the form that the issues have been raised. § 25 of the current Act regulates the amendment of the Investment Funds Act. Paragraph 11 (1) (2) of the Anti-corruption Act prohibits an official from taking an act or decision if the official is aware of the economic or other interest which may affect the act or decision of him or the person associated with him or her. A conflict of interest could be considered to be the case if the mayor made a supervisory decision concerning the economic interests of his or her own, his or her close relatives, his or her close relatives or the legal persons associated with him or her. Such situations have not been known to occur and so restricting the right to apply for the land parent is not justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U14	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Priit Tobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U15	Thank you, Madam President. Good Prime Minister! Personally, I don't see the problem of the county elders running, but later they go to run a town or municipality, or mayor or mayor. The Centre Party has submitted a draft that if the county elders apply in one municipality or another, they may not subsequently become the mayor or mayor of that municipality. This bill will probably be here soon enough. I don't think the position of the Government of the Republic is yet. What do you think of this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U16	My personal position on this matter coincides with the current procedure. I do not consider such restrictions to be justified. However, I recognise that, to some extent, it is justified to submit such a draft. This is quite common in the legal practice of several countries, so that during a certain period the supervising person is not allowed to take the post of supervisor. In some situations, such restrictions are certainly understandable. In the case of a rural municipality, it is a person who, in principle, supervises matters relating to the plan, as well as oversees the legality of individual acts of local authorities. I do not think that the scope of this supervision is such as to prevent a rural governor from taking up the position of head of local government as either mayor or mayor after the country's work has been completed. But it's the legislator to consider.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U17	Thank you. Please, Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U18	Thank you. Prime Minister! I will specify the question put by Priit Toobal. After all, four years ago, it was true that during the year after the elections, you were not allowed to apply for the head of local government. After making an exception to Toomas Kivimäe, the law was amended. Would it still not be wise to restore the former situation, so that within a year after the municipal elections, the mayor should not be elected a mayor or mayor? That would solve the situation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U19	When I answered Priit Toobal's question, I already said my point of view. I do not consider this year's deadline, or the four-year deadline, to be justified. So let us specifically ask the example of Kivimägi: What would we have won with such a ban, or how did the mayor of Kivimägi abuse his earlier knowledge as the later mayor of Kivimägi? The people wanted the former governor to become mayor. He had the strong support of the people, but there were some very compelling reasons why not allow the will of the people to be realised, in fact there wasn't. Obstacle reasons have not come forward at a later time when he has already worked as mayor. Rather, the example of Kivimägi confirms that an annual limitation would be unjustified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U20	Is there an answer to the question? Yeah, no more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much, Prime Minister. In the name of the heirs, please speak to Jaak Allik! Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U21	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister! What happened to the rural elders in recent local elections once again illustrates the sad situation that the current government coalition has led to, one day reducing the role of the county's authority and respect for the people, as well as the role of the respected governor of the government. I remember that in the 1990s, the county elders often attended a government meeting and could also speak there. Quite certainly the elected and rotating presidency of their own, whose opinion was sought for each important decision, took part in the meeting of the Government. Ministers had the honour and duty to attend the country elders' monthly meetings. When a member of the government traveled to a county, he always made the first visit to a rural governor whose self - taken responsibility was to send state top leaders to the county on their visits. That's to be aware of the county's concerns and to show the pain points. In 1997-1999, the Mart Siimann-led government introduced the tradition of holding a one-month departure session in some counties. There, an elder's presentation was heard, and the problems of this county were discussed and solved in depth. The meeting was preceded by ministerial visits to various municipalities in the morning. I dare say that this was the last time Estonia had a real regional policy. The county elders remained in office for a long time, were not exchanged on the basis of party membership, gained experience and gained popular support, which allowed them to continue successfully and professionally as members and ministers of the Riigikogu. A good example of such a career is the current Minister for Agriculture, Seeder, whose office in 1997 was extended by the Government of Tiit Vähi despite being a member of the opposition Patriotic League at the time. In 2003, the positive work experience so far allowed six county elders to enter the Riigikogu with a large vote in the ranks of different political parties. That's when everything changed. Res Publica, who received the authority, concluded that he would give power to the profession, it would also give votes, and decided to politicise the positions of the land elders publicly. I was present when in the coalition council of Res Publica, the Reform Party, and the People's Union, the seats of the country elders were publicly divided into 5:5:5. Since the People's Union was not the leader of such a principle, we also accounted for our quota by the fine but party-owned county elders Toomas Kivimäe and Kalle Kütti to save them from dismissal. The county elders were then essentially reduced from the level of the government's local representative to the level of the Head of Department of the Ministry of Interior. Although it has now become particularly evident on several occasions, and in recent elections, that the title of a county governor alone does not guarantee any votes, ten years of such party continuity have essentially been made by the secretaries of the county committees of the government parties whose main task is not to stand up for the development of the county, but to ensure the election of their party and the partying of the parish leaders. The activities of the Western Viru County Elder in connection with the recent Ojuland scandal showed this particularly convincingly. This is not only a marginalisation of the country's office, but also the dignity of the state and even the public compromise and ridicule of the party's honour, but essentially an attempt to maintain the local apparatus of government departments from the state budget. However, the Social Democrats do not conclude from the current sad situation that the status of a rural elder should simply be eliminated along with rural governments, as is often popular in the press. On the contrary, we believe that the regional identity should be strengthened and the country's dignity restored. The main drawback of the administrative reform based on the attraction centres proposed by the Minister for Regional Affairs is that there is no word about the counties. The meaning of the county town and the separation of attraction between several attraction centres are completely unimaginable and harmful. We believe that the only viable model of administrative reform is a two-tier self-government system based on both the county identity and grassroots democracy, where municipalities and small towns have specific functions and services and a corresponding tax base for residents, and the county, or at the second level, have functions and a corresponding tax base. This would also mean giving the mayor his historic place and meaning back and his election by the representatives of the county government. In that case, applying for a rural municipality council or burning feet would mean the inevitable end of his career in Parliament. Today's rural elders, however, will simply have their sympathy and honour for Hiiu and Järva's governor, who continued to do no straightening about the flea circus this time! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U22	Thank you very much. Any more calls? There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The first question is exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U23	The second question will be discussed by the members of the Riigikogu, Eiki Nestor, Helmen Küti, Heljo Pikhofi, Sven Mikeri, Kalvi Kõütli, Karel Rüütli, Rannar Vassilyev and Kalev Kotkas, submitted on 23 September 2013. The inquiry has been submitted to Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. On behalf of the heirs, please speak in the Eiki Nestor speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U24	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Prime Minister! Honourable Minister of Finance! The reason for this inquiry was the summer economic forecast of the Government of the Republic, on the basis of which the state budget for the following year was drawn up. In general, taxes have been received as expected in 2013, some even slightly better. In the summer, however, the Government of the Republic reduced the forecasts for the collection of two taxes, which seems illogical in this sense that if income tax is well received, why should VAT be less collected? The two taxes, which are expected to decrease both this year and the following year, were VAT and excise duties on fuel. Hence our questions to the Minister of Finance. Without any agreement on this, the Government of the Republic submitted some relevant draft laws to the Riigikogu procedure almost the next day. So I am pleased that the Minister has the opportunity to present them here in the context of the debate. Of course, the procedure for the drafts takes its course, and we have also held debates in this process, and I would like to ask the Minister, as the representative of the heirs, to tell us basically about the fraud that relates to VAT. These are very extensive frauds consisting in the recovery of VAT. There are no substantive changes in this area at the moment. The Government of the Republic proposed, the urgent draft deals with other issues; the main issues are the input VAT on passenger cars. On Thursday, we will have a big debate on this in the Commission. However, the problems mentioned above, which are much more extensive and whose financial impact is certainly much greater, remain unsolved in these drafts. So, on the one hand, I would like to thank the Minister for the drafts he has already passed on, but on the other, I will ask where are the ones that are not yet there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U25	Thank you. I beg the Secretary of Finance, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U26	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable heirs and other members of the Riigikogu! This question is certainly a very important one, but I would say late. As you well know, the submission of the bill to the Riigikogu is preceded by the approval of the bill by the government and, in this case, the approval took place in the government before you submitted your inquiry. You were inspired by this, but you also learned from a number of reviews in the press what we have planned with planned changes. But I'm really glad that I feel supported once and for all. You don't just slander the government, you find the problem exists, and you encourage us to move on. Not all these drafts have ever been that way. But then let's start over. First, I'll update your information. VAT revenue is forecast to increase both in 2013 and 2014. Fuel excise has indeed slightly decreased this year, but only marginally. Lowering the forecast does not mean that the reduction in revenue was the same. Of course, there are also reasons for fraud, but first and foremost, tax revenue increases are slowing down due to the slowdown in turnover growth. The first question concerns the taxation of lubricating oils. I need to see how you put it. 'What are the proposals of the Government of the Republic to reduce fraud in the payment of excise duties on fuel? ' Those proposals already sounded, as you know. On 25 September we tabled this draft so-called lubricating oils. The tax authority can detain fuel and oil for which there are reasonable grounds to suspect misuse or false declaration. The tax authority may do so if the accompanying documents are not accurate or if it is established that the liquid was not used for the declared purpose and the result is a reduction in the excise duty, exclusion from payment of the excise duty. The second question: 'What are the proposals of the Government of the Republic to reduce VAT fraud? When will the Government of the Republic submit a draft law to the Riigikogu? ' It's presented, bill 493. I guess I didn't say the bill number before, it was 491. The most important or most systematic and broad-based measure here is the electronic annex to VAT returns, which makes it possible to compare the declaration of the buyer and seller for transactions over EUR 1000. This will significantly improve risk analysis and certainly discourage fraudsters. We hope for a significant improvement in tax revenue over time. At first, we expect EUR 30 million. The Tax and Customs Board, together with the Ministry of Finance, will develop an information system solution to collect real-time data on fuel buyers and sellers from fuel sellers. This will help prevent VAT and excise fraud and also speed up the detection of fraud. In addition, there are in principle measures of penal law. As of 1 July 2013, the property is subject to extended confiscation, which also applies to tax fraud. We have also worked more generally with the Ministry of Justice. In the area of the Penal Code, we have encouraged them to make faster decisions on tax issues. But why don't you take a look at penal law as a whole? So we might be a little disappointed that the pace is so slow, but it's more systematic than it is for a long time. The Ministry of Justice is currently drafting a draft amendment to the Penal Code, which will strengthen the maximum penalty rate for crimes involving excise goods, for example. Instead of three years of imprisonment, the limit will be raised to five years. The possibility of applying a business ban will be extended. I daresay our initiative here is very large. This picture that I have received in my years of office has led me to believe that individuals should be addressed. If we know that some types are unpunished, companies are coming-coming, taxes on transactions are not collected, then stricter criminal penalties and a business ban must apply. This concerns both the immediate perpetrators and the persons involved and, as I have already said, the confiscation of property. The third question is why, despite the illogically poor receipt of VAT and excise duties on fuels, nothing has been done. It's done! At the time you asked this question, you knew what draft we had prepared. I would like to remind you of the 2011 guarantee for all fuel sellers, which was very effective. But swindlers are resourceful and can switch patterns and areas. All the time, you have to update your shots with them. It was also helped by the fact that in 2012 we reduced the scope of the special-marked fuel tax credit and thus stopped using special-marked liquid fuel in stationary engines, shipping, forestry, construction works. However, it is clear that as long as this measure remains, the State will also miss an unjustified amount of tax. It does not make sense, in fact, to support it through specially labelled fuel, taking into account all environmental and resource policies. On 1 September, the legal changes will also enter into force, which will lead the residents of border areas to more consumption of excise goods subject to excise duty and VAT in Estonia. There are millions of profits behind this, too. I am sorry that the Riigikogu was not unanimous in deciding on this. Finally, you ask how big the expected tax gap is this year. It is in the order of EUR 400 million, but I am not very sure about the methodology for this reverberation. It's such an implicit assessment, and I wouldn't sign it myself. However, it is at least one number to orientate and to prove that this is serious. However, an indirect assessment is one thing; another is real tax behaviour and practice, which may not necessarily be criminal. Where does the limit go when assessing this tax hole, it is a question of dispute.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U27	Thank you very much. Any questions for the waitress? Please, Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U28	Thank you, Madam President. The Minister did not mention one thing that the Committee on Monetary Affairs has discussed several times, nodded, smiled and said: 'Well done, hurry up! ', but it hasn't gotten to us. We are talking about a bill on the registration of employment contracts. What's this about? Is it behind the Ministry of Finance, is it behind the Ministry of Social Affairs, or is it behind the Government of the Republic? There'll be no coordination? Why is it stuck?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U29	There's no standing behind the Treasury Department. We did our part earlier than we needed for the budget. Since there's time to enter into force, I wouldn't worry too much. Although we have brought the Minister of Social Affairs and Justice to the attention of the Minister of Justice so that they can hurry, the administrative capacity is not limited and perhaps the urgency of this issue is not perceived in one ministry. I've got some feedback about not getting caught. But we still have changes. These relate, for example, to the reverse charge of gold, as well as to the extension of the period for checking VAT returns to 60 days instead of 30, and to cross-border contracts for turnover requiring the movement of paper documents to be checked. As a rule, we are not physically able to check cross-border contracts properly in 30 days, because other tax administrations do not deliver so quickly. At the same time, we usually return VAT within a few days. This is just one option that needs to be implemented. The annex to the VAT return is undoubtedly very effective for domestic transactions and a good tool for risk assessments, but it does not work that well for cross-border contracts. From the first day of the registration of employees, we want to put into effect next year. There is also the possibility of VAT fraud in this area. These are the places where the stash of turnover and envelope wages begin. But at every turn, you have to burn this area to the point of putting people in prison. In recent months, we have had a two-digit number of cheaters behind bars. So I don't regret it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U30	Thank you. Please, Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U31	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of Finance! At first reading of the state budget, I asked you about the staff costs of the Customs and Tax Board. Today we heard from you that there is a possible 400-million-dollar tax hole. All the very necessary activities that you have talked about in the same way will certainly be able to solve the problems technically, but a very important role will also be played by man. Have you figured out in your house how it can be that the staff costs of the Tax and Customs Board are decreasing compared to this year? A little, but they're still shrinking.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U32	No, I didn't see that detail today. The fact that the increase in personnel improves tax receipts is in itself correct, but there is a political boundary somewhere. It is the duty of the Minister of Finance to limit the number of staff everywhere else, and the result is a reduction in the number of people on public pay, just as our population and the number of working-age people in particular are decreasing. In this way, the Tax and Customs Board cannot simply fight to increase its staff. We have once or twice agreed in the government that more people will be given to the tax administration, and it is remembered with a bad word. This example is also often given in order to justify your human resources requests. Unpleasant, but true: you cannot take more people into your administration if you do not allow it or limit it financially to others.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U33	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much. Eiki Nestor wants to come to the negotiations. Please! Eiki Nestor takes the floor on behalf of the heirs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U34	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Minister, Inquiries have so far worked nicely with the Tax and Customs Board through the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The aim is still to apprehend tax fraudsters and prevent tax fraud. I guess that'll continue in the future. In the current situation, however, I would like to give three examples of what happens when everything is going over the top. In our committee, there has been a lot of talk about excise fraud; the Minister spoke about this here too. The Riigikogu's speaking board has been talking about bringing Polish lubricants to Estonia and converting them into diesel with the help of local alchemists in order to avoid paying excise duty in this way. The Finance Committee received a long and meaningful letter from our chemical industry. It is clear in the same way that the proposed measures are somehow disrupting their work and activities, and they do not want the current regime to change in such a way that their large trucks will be detained and inspected. At the same time, the letter makes an interesting point. In particular, chemical manufacturers claim that such a trick with Polish lubricants is not even possible by using chemist knowledge. I guess it's diesel that's being brought in, except the goods code is wrong and the goods are moving in duty-free. We in the Commission now need to look into the matter and we do not know who to fight, either alchemists or counterfeiters of the commodity code. After all, solutions may be different. Changes to the value added tax (VAT) on the acquisition of passenger cars by companies are also likely to have been decided as a matter of urgency. The number of all kinds of interested parties who want to attend the public meeting of the Committee on Monetary Affairs on Thursday is very high. Of course we will listen to all the opinions; there are certainly proposals among them on how to make the draft more sensible. However, a large number of interested parties show that perhaps it is not a false story that this bill was not written until 19 September. Pretty ugly, though, is the registration of these employment contracts. The Commission has said, one and a half years ago, or even two years ago, that the right idea, move forward. It has also found a positive response from those who will fulfil this obligation. Contrary to the VAT treatment of passenger cars, the parties concerned have, by the way, made a perfectly reasonable and understandable condition that all this could be done in an e-state with a simple, single finger stroke. But why isn't it going well, too? I believe the Minister of Finance has done his job, but the government could discuss why the other ministries wouldn't come back. There are tax frauds. So we want the Minister's strength and we promise to work hard to make things better.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U35	Thank you very much. The Minister would also like to speak before the negotiations are concluded. Please, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U36	I don't want you to hear the rumors that I've accepted what was said at the end of this. First of all, this idea of registering employees on the first day of the year, even though the Committee on Monetary Affairs may consider it a great favour to approve to pass, it has not been a mature issue for one and a half or two years. It's not that long, and I guess we started it. Let's keep moving. Let's not point fingers at each other. After all, there are always technical problems here to solve, and it will still come into force when it is planned. I guess I'll have to clarify the subject of lubricating oils. At the same time, the criticism of market participants does not have to be taken literally because there is a strong interest in it. What we're doing right now, in itself, doesn't bother us in any way. In such cases, however, the tax administration needs more rights to control matters. But if the chemists really do propose some adjustments here, you might consider them. What we are doing must be appropriate. Now, as far as cars are concerned, I do not know to what extent I can take part in this Riigikogu proceedings, but I also ask you to take it with criticism. The comments of these market participants are a little embarrassing. You still have to ask them or interest groups first. First we have to ask them if there is a problem. Are people taxed in the same way? Do those who make costs out of their salary have to be taxed higher than those who do not pay either income tax or VAT in the company Should I clean it up? In the case of one of the interest groups involved, I know exactly how costaires are mocked and taught hundreds of taxpayers how to evade taxes by making money. On the other hand, they are honorable guests in the Committee on Monetary Affairs to advise on how to make laws. I would really like to see if they are saying the same thing to the Committee on Monetary Affairs or indeed making some positive proposals. As Eiki Nestor said here, it would be nice if they did, but I doubt very much because their interest is elsewhere. The main interest is not to pay the tax and this is often an overly cynical interest, especially when wages are paid from the public sector, as is the case with these stakeholders. I suggest you be very critical of this hearing or what you call it, what's going on Thursday. After all, another category has said in the media that it is looking at the wider issue: that this is one way of supporting entrepreneurship if no tax is paid. Honestly, it's embarrassing! As otherwise you have to pay more wages, etc., it is now good to pay tax-free wages in cars. This is embarrassing! Be critical, please! Don't take it the way it is to support entrepreneurship when the country figuratively mows the lawn or buys the television! Any form of support must be properly targeted and not be aimed at ensuring that people are able to use a car in a comfortable way without any taxes. There are large amounts of money involved, they are probably even higher than we hope to get from this VAT return supplement, at least that's what the forecasters say. It can, of course, be exactly the opposite: that nothing comes from there. But the task is correct, the problem is. The tax will be avoided on a massive scale. And the problem is that interest groups don't think nationally. When you process this bill, try to think about what is good for society as a whole, not what is good for anyone who either teaches to avoid taxes or sells cars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U37	Thank you very much. That's the end of the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U38	We will go to the third item on the agenda, which is an inquiry to the members of the Riigikogu, Yana Toomi, Ester Tuiksoo, Tarmo Tamme, Valeri Korbi, Aivar Riisalu, Lauri Laasi and Kadri Simson, submitted on 26 September 2013 regarding the financial contribution of the Ministry of Social Affairs to the material "Child Protection Workers' Guide' and "Child Welfare Appreciation Tool for Child Protection Workers'. The inquiry has been submitted to Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. On behalf of the inquisitors, please, a speech chair for Yana Toomi!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U39	Madam President, thank you very much. Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, An inquiry has been made in connection with the fact that in April and June this year, we addressed a written question to the Minister of Social Affairs, Mr Rõivas, concerning the guidance material developed by the NGO Family and Children's Advisory Centre, 'A child welfare tool for child protection workers'. The Ministry of Social Affairs supported the preparation of the handbook with EUR 25000, of which EUR 5000 was used for the guide on child welfare assessment and EUR 20000 for guidance material for child protection workers. As the answers of the Minister of Social Affairs regarding the development of guidance material and financing of the NGO were contradictory, we also addressed the written question to Auditor General Alar Karise. We focused on the possible breach of public procurement, the need to start a monitoring procedure and the fulfilment of the terms of the contract concluded between the Ministry of Social Affairs and the NGO. The Auditor General's reply referred to shortcomings in the activities of the Ministry of Social Affairs and also to the fact that, in fact, this should at least partly be about Mr Ligi's competence. That is why we asked the Minister of Finance four questions. I hope Mr. Ligi will read them too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U40	Thank you. I beg the Secretary of Finance, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U41	Honourable heirs! I'm afraid I don't appreciate the weight of this question, but I don't know how to say anything exciting about it for a long time. In itself, the Minister of Finance or the Ministry of Finance is here in the role of supervisor. The Minister of Finance is responsible for monitoring this, but he will not. My position is, to put it briefly, that the position of the Minister for Social Affairs and the Ministry of Social Affairs has been adequate to explain to you. I don't know how much to add. Our firm answer is that the contract of this advisory centre is not the subject of public procurement. This is the allocation of dedicated funds, which requires the conclusion of a contract. The person requesting the money must first apply for it, and so it has been done. The Annex to the Agreement sets out the long-term activities of the Advisory Centre, for which support was requested from the state budget. Public procurement is the case where the contracting authority pays the service provider to purchase supplies for its own use or to order services, such as works. This is not the case in this case. I don't have much to add. I can tell you there's also a finger in the contract, which doesn't have to get much attention. If you look at the entire contract as a whole, the position will not change. But when it comes to fingertips, it's right that this is a mistake. I will say so much more that the execution of this contract with the Advisory Centre is a matter for the Ministry of Social Affairs. I'm sure you've gotten an answer from them, too. We know that the changes that have been made there have been made in agreement with the Ministry, so there is no reason to suspect that there is a serious problem in itself. Finally, you ask that, as the social sector is underfunded in Estonia, should not something be improved. Such a general question. There is always a shortage of money compared to wishes, but Estonia's social sector has mainly been relatively well funded. The growth of this budget is faster than the growth of the state budget; rather, it is a problem. We are making efforts, particularly for demographic reasons. Many new measures have been launched over the years and access to them has not been effectively screened enough. The main focus should be on giving money more in terms of needs and not even sharing money. Payment is paid in fact; the social system must be for the redistribution of money to the weaker.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U42	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions! Please, Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U43	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I only have one question about this. Did I now get it right that, despite the fact that the Auditor General, Mr Karis, presented in his reply a very clear list of facts which, in his opinion, indicate that there has been a breach of the law and that there is a need to start a monitoring procedure, you do not, however, do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U44	Yeah, the answer is we're not gonna do it. We are responsible for this, we are these experts, and we have made our assessment. What's there to add? I often do not understand what the National Audit Office is doing. Perhaps this time we could look at these points one by one, but let us take the assessments he gives in today's media for Estonia's well-being. They go far beyond the competence of the National Audit Office, you might think that this is an institute of economics or psychology. He appreciates that people do not feel the growth of well-being and that, therefore, the growth of well-being is as if nonexistent. At the same time, the Human Development Report states that prosperity in Estonia has grown faster than anywhere else, but people do not recognise it. If the conclusion is that people are leaving because of this feeling, let's not make it feel like it. I do not understand why the National Audit Office does not choose what it puts on paper. No matter what anyone can suck out of a pen, it's presented.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U45	Thank you. Please, Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U46	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Can you estimate that the contract stipulated that the NGO would print 200 copies? It hasn't been done, but the money has been used 100%. Does the NGO perform 100% of its obligations under this contract, or does it still have to print these copies? If so, where does he take the money?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U47	First of all, I think that this is not the level of the Riigikogu to grow in it. I do not understand why you have such an interest, why you feel the need to deal with it when you have been answered in writing. This is an agreement between the Ministry and one authority and the agreement has been amended in the meantime. The agreement has been amended by the same parties that concluded it. I have no comments; the Minister of Finance will not supervise the implementation of this agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U48	Thank you. No further questions. The negotiations will be conducted by Yana Toom, who is the representative of the inquisitors. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U49	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister. I have a very strong déjà vu feeling. It is very strange that the second minister does not see the problem here. I'll brief you on how these things work. First, in 2004 the Ministry of Social Affairs ordered and issued a guide with exactly the same title, entitled "Children's well-being tool for child protection workers'. It is still in use, our social workers are doing their job according to it. The Ministry paid for this exactly nine years ago. Now it's been a while. For some reason, there is an NGO that is supported from year to year by the Ministry of Social Affairs, the total amount of subsidies is close to half a million euros. Compared to other NGOs, it's very, very big money. This is the only non-profit organisation that is accepted by the Ministry of Social Affairs as a third sector representative, as it constantly approves all kinds of initiatives taken by the Ministry of Social Affairs in different fields. That's what it looks like. Of course, we can pretend we're okay. Minister Rõivas said from this remote point of view that, Mrs Toom, if the fact that one page of proofreading in Estonian costs 20 euros would be the biggest problem in our social field, then the heart of the Minister of Social Affairs would be pleased. But I'm saying it's actually a very big problem. The problem is called corruption. The specific amount is really not very large, but I must say that I have prepared another written question for Mr Clothes just today. In the meantime, very interesting facts have come to light when dealing with other NGOs. I hope that one day we will still see a minister here on the remote, who says yes, we have trouble in the house, we have officials who will give money to their acquaintances or, I don't know, neighbors, friends or anyone, and it needs to be stopped. I actually believe that neither the current minister nor the previous minister may have known about this. But please, honourable members of the government, take this thing down! It's a total mess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U50	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. I'm closing the negotiations. The third question is exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U51	The fourth item is the inquiry submitted by the members of the Riigikogu, Kalev Kallo, Olga Sõtnik, Jüri Ratas, Tarmo Tamme, Peeter Võsa, Valeri Korbi, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Aivar Riisalu, Kadri Simson, Mailis Repsi, Ester Tuiksoo, Viktor Vassiliev and Aadu on 8 October 2013. The inquiry has been submitted to Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi. Speaker's chair, Kalev Kallo, on behalf of the interviewers, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U52	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This questioning is to some extent the same as the previous one, but since the performers are different, it can be totally random to be placed on today's agenda. The Centre Party Group called for this question to be submitted by business to the members of the Group. They have concerns that the market for construction materials has been specifically discussed about the construction armada, and there is a great deal of evasion about the payment of VAT. It has become quite difficult for the honest dealer of the dash metal, as the number of suppliers who have not paid VAT has already exceeded 50% and this proportion is increasing. The Ministry of Finance has so far focused its attention on reducing the possibilities for tax optimisation. For example, the aim is to limit the deduction of input VAT on the acquisition of passenger cars and goods and services for their use. But the main part of the tax revenue is still lost to the state because of the ferocious tax fraud. One such option is the so-called 'chain transactions', where there is the possibility to deduct input VAT. At the same time, a shadow is included in the transaction as an intermediary who is obliged to pay VAT to the State but is either not declared or simply not paid. This scheme is claimed to be very much used in the case of imported construction armature with an annual turnover of around EUR 50 million. In view of the fact that more than half of the quantity is already delivered to the country by VAT fraud, this could indeed be a loss of 5 to 8 million. (The total amount of VAT fraud is estimated to be more than EUR 200 million.) Perhaps the Ministry of Finance doesn't care about such small sums, but the inquiry is motivated by the fact that entrepreneurs who want to do business honestly are concerned. In this regard, we have three questions for the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U53	Thank you very much. I beg the Secretary of Finance, Jürgen Ligi!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U54	Honourable heirs! You, too, are dealing with a major problem. Much of the answer is hidden in my first response to my first inquiry. To say something else as an introduction, I think that if companies point to a tax administration problem, there is a little too indirect a way to approach it through a party. I recommend that the proposals and references be communicated as specifically as possible. Whether it is the tax office or the Minister of Finance. I would say that by doing business through the Minister of Finance, the priority of the problem will be greater. Yes, there are problems in these areas. The first question you have is the VAT Act and the Act amending the Liquid Fuel Act, which also introduced the reverse charge on the turnover of gold. How's it going? It's gone the way it was afraid. Everything was fine at first, but then they found a cure for it. Initially, the return of VAT in the gold business decreased from EUR 1 million per month to EUR 0.2 million. Six months, or rather, I'd say it went up to the same level during the year. In the meantime, a real victory was probably won, several million euros were won, but then what happened was the problem with reverse charge. There was no long-term impact, as this will be the case for goods and services not subject to reverse charge, and fraudsters will move on to other sectors. In any case, this is an exception; as a general rule, such a solution must be well considered in each particular case. We have had failures, such as in the area of timber, where we hoped to get a good result ten years ago, but we got the opposite result. We gave up that regulation. It works well in the real estate and scrap metal sector, but it involves administrative costs and new thoughts come to the minds of the villains. The second question relates to the entry into force of an amendment to the VAT Act in Finland on 1 April 2011, which introduced a reverse charge for the provision of construction services. What is Finland's experience? Can we take over? I couldn't. There are also problems in defining a tax object in Finland. We've been talking to them. In the construction sector, there are 11 countries in the European Union that have introduced this regulation, most of which have not. In any case, we will analyse it, see if we will have a more positive opinion than in the European Union on average. By the end of the year, we will find out about this one analysis of this will be completed precisely by the end of the year. At first, there is no plan to change it, but the field is under special scrutiny. In the third question, you refer to the fact that the directive on reverse charge does not include, for example, forestry and the fuel sector, which is the source of headaches in Estonia. Do I believe that the VAT Directive should extend the use of reverse charge and what are the current views on this issue in Europe? Yeah, it's the source of the headache. But, as has been said, such changes are considered very seriously. They are established as temporary, knowing that the effect will not last long and that regulation is likely to be administratively costly and will motivate tax fraudrs to come up with new solutions, to make different choices. In July this year, we amended the VAT Directive of the European Union by extending the list of goods authorised by reverse charge. This deadline is limited to the end of 2018. Goods such as mobile phones, computers, cereals, raw metals and metal semi-finished products were added to the list. By way of derogation, if the reverse charge mechanism is to be applied more widely, the European Commission may be contacted for authorisation. I can't feel very convincing reasons for this right now. It is also known that these exceptions are not willingly made. In July, the Council adopted an amendment establishing a rapid reaction mechanism against VAT fraud, enabling an operational response to large-scale and unexpected fraud, even if no specific category of goods or services is included in this list. Under this mechanism, the European Commission will grant an initial authorisation for the reverse charge within one to two months of receiving a request from a Member State.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U55	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Please, Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U56	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Minister, thank you very much. I will explain why the members of the Riigikogu were contacted. The parties confirmed that they have repeatedly held very constructive consultations with the employees of the Tax and Customs Board and have tried to raise awareness of the problem. And not today, not yesterday, but a year ago. However, since no change has followed, the members of the Riigikogu were contacted. But to the minister, yes, they really haven't. They had the question that VAT fraud in the dash metal business was increasing; they were trying to be honest, but they were playing a weaker role. What are they supposed to do now? What, then, would be the answer to entrepreneurs? So do as others do, or what happens next?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U57	In fact, in my introduction, I meant that if an amendment was made to the law, it might not be effective. We have enough experience of both the earlier and the current reverse charge procedures; we do not immediately rush to change the law. However, if companies in this area are really firmly convinced that competitors are cheating, it would be wise to address the Minister directly. It can produce results. I think that many companies have been subjected to tax controls and tax rulings precisely because they have referred to his fraud, for example, in the fuel sector. It's happened to me. Finally, we have also changed the law, which has been of great help. However, this does not mean that the fight against tax fraud will stop immediately. But, yes, there are signals, specific hints, in case it is, as you say, and as far as I know, really is that there is unfair competition in the dashboard business. Only then these competitors should also be mentioned. Let me also remind you that these measures actually form part of a systematic solution. In the case of domestic transactions, an electronic supplement will certainly help to limit fraud, while a longer check time for cross-border transactions will help to limit fraud.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U58	Thank you. Please, colleague Jüri Ratas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U59	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! I will continue with the Kalev Kallo question in some ways. I, too, have heard about the problems in this sector and exactly the same area that he asked about. I'm going to ask you a two-part question. Have you had discussions with the Tax and Customs Board on the subject of this sector, and could we not analyse the reverse charge process a little more widely, covering the whole construction sector, not just the dashboard business, as Kalev Kallo pointed out? How much tax gap does the budget involve in the construction sector? How far-reaching do you think this is when you look at the construction sector as a whole?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U60	I answered that a little bit. Finland was brought as an example here, but Finland's experience is not entirely positive. There, however, are the pre-determined problems that are precisely the subject of the tax, where we are pushing fraud. But our actions are now systematic. The regulations coming into force next year should be effective and also improve the state of affairs in the construction sector. We have a committee on tax fraud and I cannot say that fraud in the construction sector has been an extra issue there. The current Director General of the Tax Administration is very energetic in sharing his thoughts. His thoughts of the last few days have touched fuels and cars. Why don't you read about it in the media? But at one point, the focus is more on one sector, at some point depending on the situation again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U61	Thank you. No more questions for the waitress. Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. The item is exhausted.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-11-04_U62	After the hammer hit, it is possible to register for the speech in the free microphone round. There's no call. I am pleased to thank you all for your time together. I wish you a nice evening. The sitting is adjourned. See you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 4.26 p.m.
