ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Tuesday session of the 13th working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, you can hand over drafts and inquiries. Cosmic silence, please! If no one wishes to submit inquiries or drafts, please listen to the announcements. On Wednesday, 8 May, the following members of the government will attend Question Time: Minister of Defence Urmas Reinsalu, Prime Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimannus and Minister of Education and Science Jaak Aaviksoo. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 82 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, none 19.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U2	We begin the first reading of the Bill 395 of Priit Toobali, Kalev Kallo, Olga Sõtnik, Jüri Ratas, Tarmo Tamme, Eldar Efendiev, Enn Esemaa, Peeter Võsa, Lauri Laas, Vladimir Velmani, Valeri Korbi, Mikhail Stalnukhin, Heimar Leng, Marika Tuus-Lauli, Aivar Riisalu, Mailis Repsi, Ester Tuiksoo, Yana Toomi, Viktor Vassilyev, Aadu Musta and Kadri Simson, initiated by Riigikogu members of the Riigikogu. First of all, I would like to ask my colleague, Priit Toobali, to speak on the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U3	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, You have before you 21 members of the Central Party of the Riigikogu. a draft Constitutional Amendment Act, which was submitted to the procedure on 12 March, in order to allow for a popular initiative. When I presented this draft at the time, I stressed that our aim was to create the possibility for 25000 citizens to initiate a bill, regardless of the participation of political parties in the initiative presented in the Riigikogu. At the same time, according to the initiators, legitimisation of the public initiative could alleviate some of the people's tiredness of party politics and stimulate civil society activities. It is probably right to recall here that, on the day of the debate held in the People's Assembly on 8 April, this proposal was also supported. I remember how, on the morning of the debate on the President's draft direct elections, a delegation from the coalition party announced that Parliament should take the recommendations of the people's assembly seriously and that this would be a sign of rejection of the draft direct elections. I believe that today we have here this very bill, which we can show together how serious we are about the proposals of the people's assembly, because it was the regularisation of the popular initiative that received almost the greatest support on the folk day of the Song Festival Square. Who is more interested in this subject, I recommend that they read last year's Riigikogu Working Papers with order number 26. There Ero Liivik, doctoral student at the University of Tartu, analyses the discourse of direct democracy in the Riigikogu. The debate summarises the opinions of several lawyers as well as researchers of constitutional law on this subject. I will then bring to you a few thoughts about this work. The lawyers who drew up the report of the Constitutional Expertise Committee found that the current Constitution is too central to the Riigikogu and that the people have not been adequately entrusted in the exercise of state authority. While the country expects all individuals to be recognised through the public, it does not take into account the immediate opinion of the people. Liivik also stresses Dr Heinrich Schneider's question that which of the highest powers we can talk about when the round of questions to be put to the referendum is limited and only the Riigikogu decides to hold a referendum. By the way, according to the 2011 Estonian Human Development Report, Estonia is the least active user of direct democracy in comparison with the Baltic States. For example, if there are even four types of referendums in the Latvian and Lithuanian constitutions, only Parliament can decide to hold a referendum in Estonia. This brings us to the fact that Estonia needs a fundamental amendment to the Constitution, which would give citizens the opportunity to have a greater say in state affairs. It can always be said that the draft law can also be initiated by the people turning to one or another party or MP represented in the Riigikogu. But it wouldn't be the same, it wouldn't be a public initiative anymore. Undoubtedly, the fundamental change we have proposed would boost the growth of active citizenship. Various debates can arise, both in the media and among people, on which draft can collect 25000 signatures and which problem needs to be tackled the most. The draft sent by the people to Parliament would also give us considerable discipline in this Chamber. I believe that all of us would go into these drafts, which, by means of a public initiative, would enter this hall, with utmost care. And I dare say that it wouldn't be a Coalition's arrogance or a drawer of a bill for these drafts. Bringing a people's initiative into the Constitution could help improve political culture. When we are talking about the popular initiative as a concept, the content of one form of expression of direct democracy is that a bill with the signatures of a certain number of citizens with a right to vote must be dealt with and submitted for a decision in Parliament or in a referendum. The results of the referendum may also be set out differently. The adoption of a draft, which has not been supported by Parliament, in a referendum, may involve extraordinary parliamentary elections in order to link Parliament with its proceedings. It's one, but it's not the only way. I would like to remind you here that the draft that we are dealing with today adds to the Constitution the possibility of launching a bill for at least 25000 citizens and obliges Parliament to discuss this draft. A detailed and detailed description of the organisation and progress of the public initiative would be added later in the form of a People's Initiative Act. The circle of drafts to be put to the referendum is often limited. The existence of such a restriction also affects the choice of the model of the public initiative. The main political content of the public initiative is the adoption of legislation on the political draft, with a strong consolidated support, regardless of the political parties in power. Indeed, the practical use of the public initiative option is associated not only with the positive aspects described above but also with some negative consequences. If there are a large number of drafts initiated under the People's Initiative and are directed directly to the referendum in virtually unchanged form, the legal order may become internally contradictory. I do not really believe that there will be a situation in Estonia where these drafts will be received on a massive basis by Parliament. Above all, it is precisely because we have tried to prevent such potential problems. I will introduce you to some technical nuances, but I repeat that today we are not deciding on these technical nuances, but on the principle of whether or not to allow the people to initiate a draft law. We foresee that the draft law, which is to be submitted as a public initiative, must comply with the same legal requirements as the other draft laws in the Riigikogu proceedings, whether they are drafts from a political group, commission, a national ambassador or government. The formal side of the bill is controlled by the Riigikogu Board, which takes place before the grant signatures are collected. The draft with deficiencies will be returned to the author by the Riigikogu Board. The Management Board of the Riigikogu also checks that the bill is submitted by an Estonian citizen with a right to vote or by a legal person registered in Estonia. As a very important principle, I would also like to mention the preliminary examination of the constitutional compatibility of the draft law, which is presented as a public initiative, which precludes the general discussion of anti-constitutional proposals. As with other legislative acts, the Chancellor of Justice has been chosen to carry out the constitutional review. In order to limit the number of drafts, bail is also foreseen. The security shall be released only if the draft is subject to prior examination and at least 10000 signatures have been collected, the correctness of which has been verified. We should discuss the financial amount of bail in this Parliament in the future, which has not been proposed by the drafter. The collection of grant signatures shall be carried out on its own initiative. Unlike some other countries where signature can be given in polling stations, it avoids excessive costs for the country to organise the work of the respective departments and ensures more flexibility in granting grant signatures. I repeat once again that the grant signature may be given by a person who fulfils the conditions laid down for participants in the Riigikogu elections and referendums. The signature collector (the organiser of the citizens' initiative) may give the signature of support at the time of the Republic Election Commission's approval, but not later than six months from the publication of the draft on the website of the Election Commission of the Republic. Following prompt verification, the Riigikogu Election Committee will transfer the draft to the Riigikogu for admission to the procedure if the 25000 signatures required are collected and available. There are certainly some differences in the procedure for the draft submitted in accordance with the People's Initiative procedure in the Riigikogu, compared to the draft submitted by, for example, a political group or government, whether it is the initiator's role in defending the draft in the committee or in this very large hall. Perhaps, in anticipation of your questions, I would like to mention that at local level, the popular initiative is actually legitimised. Paragraph 32 (1) of the Local Government Organisation Act states that at least one per cent of rural municipality or city dwellers who have the right to take initiatives to adopt, amend or repeal the legislation of a municipality or city council or government on matters relating to local life which are discussed within three months at the latest. It is the same in the European Union: a draft with a million signatures goes before the European Commission and this has to be taken into account. When discussing this issue in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the question arose that there was no need to amend the Constitution but to allow for a more lenient public initiative, for example in the form of a petition. I and the other initiators of the draft law firmly believe that the popular initiative will have sufficient strength only if Parliament has a constitutional obligation to process the draft proposed by the people and the people have the constitutional right to present it. In fact, there is an important difference as to whether the draft is based on a political group, a member of the Riigikogu, a government, or perhaps 25000 citizens. The people of Estonia do not have the opportunity to intervene in large decision-making processes. Currently, the Constitution only provides for two possibilities: the election of the Riigikogu and the referendum. According to the current constitution, the Riigikogu has been elected six times and only one referendum took place on 14 September 2003 when the Estonian people decided to join the European Union and supplement the Constitution of the Republic of Estonia. No more referendums have taken place in re-independence Estonia. Thus, through the citizens with voting rights in Estonia, the highest state power has been exercised since the restoration of independence in only seven cases. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft before you is nothing more than a step closer to greater involvement of the people and strengthening our democracy. I would like to reiterate that, at the level of local authorities, and also at the level of the European Union, the popular initiative is fully in place and legalised. So bringing this country to the level is no wonder. Last Friday of the week, the day before 'Let's do it! ' Talguid I happened to hear about the Vikerradio Juhan Kivirähk's daily comment, where he found that political parties should be talgu locomotives in Estonia and bring the people along. Right now you have the opportunity to show that we want to be these locomotives in the Riigikogu. A chance to show that we want to involve the people and take the people's views into account. I ask you to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U4	Thank you very much, Mr Toobal. Any questions for the waitress? Please, my colleague Lauri Laasi!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U5	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Would you mention a country where such a popular initiative is possible?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U6	Thank you. This form of direct democracy, as we foresee as a popular initiative, is being used, for example, in Switzerland and some states of the United States. Germany has allowed a public initiative at the level of the Länder. In Austria, public initiative is allowed at federal level and also in some federal states. The nearest example is from here in our southern neighbours in Latvia, a popular initiative is allowed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U7	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U8	Thank you. Good colleague! As you mentioned, in many countries there is a legal mechanism that obliges Parliament to deal with a draft law that has been adequately supported by the people with signatures. Then why hasn't this popular initiative been given to our people? Why has our civil society been deprived of it? What's the fear behind here? I recall that when 163001 signatures were collected during the Laari government against the sale of power plants to the NRG, after that the government quarreled with each other. I remember that Pärnoja, then Minister of Economic Affairs, ignored these signatures, and the government disbanded. Is that what they're afraid of or what fear is behind here?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U9	Thank you. First of all, I would suggest that this question be put to the next rapporteur, who is a member of the coalition and represents the coalition's views on this issue. The People's Initiative Act has been discussed four times in this Chamber. Today is the fifth time we are discussing the law of the People's Initiative. This has been the case in 2003, 2005, 2006 and 2008. In 2003, 2005 and 2006, this law was rejected by the coalition's votes. On all three occasions, the Coalition's leading party, the Reform Party, was, in my opinion, the most afraid of the People's Initiative Act for some reason. The draft that was put into procedure in 2008 came to an end because this parliamentary assembly ended its work. I hope this time it'll be different. But I think it is also certainly linked to trust in the parties that are currently exercising state power. If you look at the latest research on support or trust, you can see that the political parties that run the country do not have such support from the people. This may be the reason why there is fear of drafts that could come to Parliament. It is very difficult to resist these drafts, as 25000 people in parliamentary elections represent quite a number of mandates in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. Afraid of conflicting with so many people.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U10	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U11	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! I think this is a very worthwhile initiative. According to the 1920 Constitution, 25000 people had the right to make proposals under the popular initiative. Did you choose the required amount of signatures 25,000 according to this logic, or did you have any other reason?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U12	Thank you. That's right. The fact that 25 000 citizens' signatures can initiate a bill has been taken from the 1920 Constitution, where such a requirement had been imposed. There was a debate in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on whether this 25000 is 'right' maybe too big, perhaps too small. If this draft remains in the process, it will certainly be possible to discuss it in the future. Given that nearly a hundred years have passed since then, it is obvious that 25 000 signatures are now easier to collect than in 1920. This is a question that could be discussed. The drafters, or members of the Central Party Group, have offered 25000 on the basis of the constitution of 1920.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U13	Please, Mr. Indrek Saar!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U14	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, please explain in more detail. Firstly, although I think I have an idea of an answer, I would like to hear once again from the initiator of the draft, why the draft law initiated by the popular initiative cannot be put to a referendum, why you have proposed this. Secondly, I wonder why the public initiative cannot initiate drafts on issues such as budget and taxes. For example, if the people want VAT to be raised by 1% and the salaries of teachers increased for this money, why do we exclude from this law the possibility that they can initiate such a bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U15	Thank you. I'll start with your second question. As I said in the report, this logic is based on the same restrictions or conditions that are currently being put to a referendum according to the Constitution. The referendum cannot put to the vote the issues you have read: tax and budgetary issues, or commitment to the state. This logic follows from this very point in the referendum laid down in the Constitution. Your second question concerned the fact that the drafts that came to Parliament under the popular initiative cannot be put to a referendum. This is about the aim that Parliament would be less afraid to adopt the law on the popular initiative, so that it should not be afraid that if a matter initiated by some people does not get approved in this Chamber, but the people will support it in the referendum, it will trigger extraordinary elections. The aim is to take away these fears so that Parliament can support this draft and should not reject it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U16	Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U17	I say right away that I think it would be sufficient to supplement § 103 of the Constitution and, perhaps, § 104 and § 106. But my question is that it has also been supplemented by § 56. I ask the initiator of the bill to explain whether he is not afraid that there might be a somewhat misleading impression here! Paragraph 56 lists how the people exercise the highest power: first by election and second by referendum. Does the introduction of this provision not give the mistaken impression that the Riigikogu is supposed to adopt this law literally? Why has § 56 been added? What if you don't need it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U18	Thank you. Article 56 of the Constitution really provides for two ways in which the people can exercise the highest state power: by election to the Riigikogu and by referendum. We bring in the third option and we propose that this could also be possible through a public initiative. I do not think that this would create confusion or give the impression that the Riigikogu will have to adopt this draft law submitted by popular initiative without consideration or that it will not have the opportunity to reject it. It's just one way the people can initiate a bill. This does not mean Parliament's obligation to adopt this draft as a law, but bringing this issue into the Constitution creates an obligation for Parliament to discuss this draft. I think that all the other options that have been mentioned in the form of petitions, some kind of softer form of how to collect signatures and later submit them to the Riigikogu committee, for example, who then decides whether or not to discuss it, will not save the situation. Why do we need to change the constitution? In our opinion, a change in the constitution would give the people the right to initiate draft laws and create an obligation for Parliament to process these draft laws.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U19	Please, Mr Erki Arrow!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable spokesperson! The IRL and Reform Party were mentioned here, but I do not recall the name of the party for which over one hundred thousand signatures were collected for the chairman a few years ago. As the initiator of the bill, has it not occurred to you that maybe before you make any laws, you could be like a pioneer and set the example of the people? Secondly, there was a campaign recently when signatures were collected. It was called incitement to hatred. Don't you think we're very selective about collecting signatures?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U21	Thank you. First of all, I will answer the first question. Unlike you, I probably have not been a pioneer, I have been a wolf and a scout and have been involved in this activity. I do not think that if we were to collect signatures and give the people the opportunity to bring a good draft to this Chamber, which Parliament and the parliamentary committees should discuss at several readings, it would somehow incite hatred or hatred. I think this will give the people the opportunity to have a say and the opportunity for Parliament and politicians to take a step closer to the people. I do not agree with you as if collecting signatures would incite hatred and hatred. As for the IRL, I don't remember mentioning your party in my report. I directly appointed a member of the coalition who, in the run-up to the debate on the draft direct election of the President, felt it necessary to send out a press release that this draft should be rejected only because the direct election of the President of the Riigikogu was not supported. This person belonged to the Reform Party, not the Fatherland and Res Publica Union.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U22	Please, my colleague Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U23	Thank you very much. As Secretary General of the Centre Party, how do you assess democracy, or the temporal development of popular power? How do you compare democracy in the Republic of Estonia with anno Domini 1991 compared to democracy twenty years later?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U24	Thank you. First of all, from this board, I would rather speak as a member of the Riigikogu than as a party secretary-general. In this Chamber, my role is to be a member of the Riigikogu, a member of the Constitutional Committee and a waitress for this draft. With regard to the development of democracy in the re-independence Estonian country in these twenty or slightly more than twenty years, I also spoke in a few words about how the people have been able to participate in the governance and activities of the state in the form of direct democracy. I have given some examples of how the people have also been able to have a say in local governments and how the European Union has developed towards direct democracy. When comparing local governments and national levels, it becomes clear that the people have been given more and more opportunities to contribute to matters relating to the life of local authorities every year. I am reminded, for example, of the fact that the people's initiative forced Otepää Vallavolikogu to deal with the draft law. Another example is the possibility of direct democracy recently adopted at EU level. As I mentioned, when a million signatures are collected in the European Union, the European Commission is obliged to discuss these issues. In my report, I stressed that, for these twenty years, the people have been able to participate directly in the exercise of state authority, in accordance with the current constitution, only seven times, i.e. six parliamentary elections and one referendum. I think seven times in 22 years is a little low. That is why we are offering the opportunity for the people to have more say, because for some reason Parliament has not wanted to hold referendums. It would be a form to invite the people to come along. I think we have a pretty long way to go when we can say that we have involved a lot of people and we have sufficiently implemented direct democracy in a re-independence Estonian country.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U25	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U26	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! Can the reason why coalition parties do not support this bill not lie in a recent survey? In fact, 50% of those questioned felt that one minister should resign. What if the coalition parties are afraid that the people will call the ministers back between the elections? But here's the question. What could be said to the Riigikogu, where the popular initiative was one of the most voted proposals, and what could be said to the President of the Republic, who handed these proposals to the Riigikogu and asked for them to be taken seriously? What would you say to the Riigikogu and the President of the Republic?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U27	As far as the recall of ministers is concerned, such a draft law or decision could not be presented in the form of a public initiative, but it is likely that the decisions that the coalition wants to adopt or has adopted will be feared to be recalled or reversed by the people. As regards the speech by the Riigikogu and the President on this very front, who asked that all the proposals that were handed over to Parliament be taken seriously, I think that the Central Party Group has taken at least one important proposal from the Riigikogu seriously during the procedure on this draft. I would like to thank the Socialists, who in the Commission supported our initiative to legitimise the popular initiative and bring it into the constitution. I think that, at least on the left side of the hall, the proposals from the people's assembly are taking them very seriously.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U28	Please, colleague Eiki Nestor, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U29	My life experience has shown that in order to propose a change of law, a single telephone call is sufficient, but in order to submit a draft law, perhaps there must be 25,000 signatures. But you know well that sometimes the Forests and Mountains Act becomes the Rivers and Lakes Act in the Riigikogu. Did you discuss whether the initiators should have the same right as we do so that they could withdraw their draft in certain cases?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U30	Thank you. As I said, today we are discussing the fundamental question of whether to give the people the right to initiate a draft law. The nuances will be decided later in the People's Initiative Act. But to me, your proposal seems quite a good idea, given the way the coalition has acted on certain drafts in this Chamber, how, for example, following the Act on Gender Equality, Tallinn City Council was made bigger than it was before. So you could really consider it. One should consider what this mechanism could be, how these 25000 or more people could jointly decide that this bill should be withdrawn. But when the Constitution is amended and the draft People's Initiative Act begins, it is certainly worth remembering and thinking about it. Because, as I said, the procedure for processing the draft that came into this Chamber by means of a public initiative is certainly somewhat different from the procedure for dealing with the drafts submitted by the Government of the Republic, by the political group, by the Commission or by a Member of the Commission. For example, I'm the bill waitress here today. It should be considered, for example, who would have been the rapporteur for the draft law at first reading in this very large Chamber, in the procedure of the People's Initiative. The procedural nuances of the Riigikogu's Home and Working Procedures Act must be considered and discussed when the draft People's Initiative Act is being processed in this Chamber. However, we believe that this is justified only when a fundamental position has been adopted to amend the Constitution and to introduce at least 25000 citizens' right to initiate a draft law into the Constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U31	Please, Mr Erki Arrow, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U32	Thank you. Good starter! Have you also meant that voices can be collected online? Aren't you afraid these voices could be fake? Secondly, why must the Constitution be amended, could it not simply change the law of the Riigikogu's home and working procedures, which you probably have in your head?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U33	Thank you. I will start with the second part of the question why the Constitution should be amended. We believe that this is necessary because (i have repeatedly emphasised this in my presentation and I have also emphasised in answering questions) that, if we do not change the Constitution, there is no obligation for Parliament to discuss the drafts that have come here under the popular initiative. Then neither can the people be given the right to submit a bill, because the Constitution states who has the right to submit draft laws. Today, this can be done by a government, a political group, a Commission or a MP, but not by 25000 citizens or by any number of citizens. It is necessary to amend the Constitution in order for the people to have the right to submit a draft law and for Parliament to have an obligation to discuss it. No other law can create such an obligation. With regard to the collection of votes on the Internet, once again I say that we are talking today more broadly about the principle of whether or not to bring the right to a popular initiative into the Constitution. We will discuss the nuances when we process the draft law on the popular initiative. But basically, I don't see why I shouldn't be able to collect signatures online. There is an important difference between e-elections. In the case of e-elections, you cannot control your voice, but when signing online, you can check at any time whether your signature has reached the page of the collection of signatures or if it is not there. The problem of suspected counterfeiting, which has indeed been the case in the case of e-elections, has been told many stories, and we also know them ourselves, in the case of collecting signatures in support of the public initiative, I do not see it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U34	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U35	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! You brought out the experience of our southern neighbour, Latvia. But can you tell me when the Latvian people have had this right, how many times have the people used this right in 20 years, and what have the basic questions been? Can you give me a little heads-up?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U36	Thank you. As far as I know, this right has not lasted for a very long time for the citizens of Latvia. One of the problems of Latvian public initiatives is that the required number of signatures is too low and that too few citizens have the right to initiate a draft law. This could lead to the situation that I said that the draft launched under the People's Initiative will reach Parliament, will be put to a referendum in almost unchanged form, and there will be some sort of legal problem. When we prepare our own draft, we have thought that 25000 citizens, given our population numbers, would be sufficient to ensure that these draft laws initiated by the people's initiative do not go too far to Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U37	Please, Mr Indrek Saar, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U38	Thank you. However, I will come back to this very question, my dear colleague. I understand why the public initiative cannot initiate the establishment and termination of emergency situations or national defence issues. The Constitution also says that these questions cannot be put to a referendum. I come back to why the public initiative should not initiate discussions on, for example, the budget, taxes and public financial obligations. Why are you excluding them? The popular initiative gives the Riigikogu a clear signal, but it does not ultimately oblige the Riigikogu to do exactly that.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U39	Thank you. I repeat: we were based on the fact that the Constitution provides for certain restrictions in the organisation of a referendum. See the appendix to our explanatory memorandum, which sets out the draft law on the popular initiative. There is the possibility that some kind of draft will reach Parliament as a public initiative, Parliament will not support it, and then this draft will be put to a referendum. If Parliament comes to Parliament by means of a public initiative on taxes, financial commitments to the state or budget, Parliament says no to this draft law, and this draft will go to a referendum, then it would also be necessary to amend the Constitution on the issue of referendums. We cannot, according to the current constitution, put the issues of taxation and commitment to the state in a referendum. I once remembered the good word of the Social Democrats. I hope that if this bill remains in the process, we will be able to reconsider all these issues between the first reading and the second reading. Why not come to your proposal as well and examine whether this does not raise problems in relation to the point of the Constitution on the referendum.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U40	Please, Mr Imre Sooäär!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U41	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! The Constitution is a fundamental document of all our laws, and it is usually not changed so lightly; there must be a very good reason for this. All right, well, the Constitution has been tried to amend it with drafts before in this Chamber, and not in vain. For example, at the end of the previous term of office, Mark Soosaar collected signatures from nearly two thirds of the MPs in order to bring the concept of cultural heritage into the text of the Constitution. I see your bill only has 21 signatures. How's that so little? You know we need two-thirds of the ambassadors to sign. How do you predict the fate of this bill when only so few people have signed the bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U42	I fully agree that the Constitution is a fundamental document of all laws and that the Constitution should not be amended lightly. 21 parliamentarians have proposed two amendments to the Constitution. The first dealt with the President's direct election, which is certainly not a small nuance of the organisation of state life or a small question, I think this is quite an important issue. Secondly, we are talking today about the Act on the People's Initiative, which has also been presented by 21 MPs. At least 21 members of the Riigikogu agree to initiate a draft Constitutional Amendment Act in Parliament. I do not think that the number of initiators should determine how further the draft will go in Parliament. In previous times, the number of MPs who wanted to initiate the People's Initiative Act has been of the same size: 25 in 2003, 21 in 2005, 35 in 2000 and 25 in 2008. The initiators have not only been members of the Central Party Group, but also members of several other parties, such as the Greens.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U43	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U44	Thank you. Priit, there are currently four or five people in the Chamber who should remember one funny story that happened during Riigikogu X. Mrs Ergma also sat there at the time, and a member of Res Publica came to the court, saying, "Avo Üprus." He started laying out maps with signatures to support his party's initiative. Maybe we discovered that these were the signatures that we and the People's League had collected against the sale of power plants. It was a funny and unpleasant situation, but it proved that the signatures collected from Res Publica were highly valued at the time. Why is the IRL, where the former Res Publica is now ruling, against the signatures collected from these same people?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U45	Thank you. In a few decades, we will see the Members of the Fatherland and Res Publica acting in the vote in this very Chamber. I must say that those members of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs who belong to the party you mentioned are not from Res Publica's background, but from the background of the Fatherland. Both Mr Nutt and Mr Herkel really opposed our proposal. I am keen to see how former members of Res Publica behave in this vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U46	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Toobal. I would like a presentation by Andrei Korobeinik, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U47	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Constitutional Affairs discussed the draft 395 at its regular meeting on Monday 22 April 2013. A guest from the Ministry of Justice of Kristen Kanarik, who introduced the government's opinion on this initiative, took part in the discussion of the draft. At the beginning of the debate, Priit Toobal, representative of the initiator of the draft and member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, explained his proposal. That's what he did here. In short, his suggestion is that 25000 citizens with a right to vote could jointly initiate a draft law that the Riigikogu should discuss. This figure of 25000 comes from the 1920 Constitution. We now have 2013 and, as this is not an option in the current Constitution, the Constitution needs to be amended to implement the proposal. There is a similar possibility in local governments, where a debate can be initiated if at least 1% of the signatures of local or urban residents with a right to vote are collected, but not less than five rural or urban residents with a right to vote. This option has not proved very popular. At European level, too, there was a recent possibility that, if one million signatures were collected from seven countries, this proposal would reach the European Commission. During the debate, the Commission mentioned that there is no need to change the Constitution to allow people to take initiatives, as there are other solutions. It seemed that all parties were interested in finding a constructive solution. In the view of both the government and several members of the Commission, inclusion could be improved through other instruments such as memos or petitions. The position of the Government of the Republic was, in short, that the government, while supporting the greater involvement of the people in policy-making, did not create any positive emotions in the draft law. The Constitutional Assembly, which discussed the idea of a popular initiative but did not support it, had a similar view in its time. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs also did not support the initiators' proposal to conclude the first reading of the draft. There were 4 Commission members in favour, 6 against and 1 abstention. The Commission decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda on 7 May and to appoint me rapporteur. These decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U48	Thank you very much, Mr Korobenik. Now let's start asking questions. Please, Mr Stalnukhin, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U49	Thank you. Dear waitress, Less than six months remain until the elections. It's another crazy season, when most of us in this hall, stuffing our pockets full of lollipops, hanging an accordion on our shoulders and going to the crowd to talk about how he loves the people and how we do everything. Don't you love the people or don't you go to the crowd?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U50	I don't have a accordion.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U51	But if you're in this situation at one great moment, they'll ask you why you did it. If you love the Estonian people, if you talk and write about how better it would be, why don't you trust the one you love? Why don't you give him the opportunity to initiate the bill, why didn't you support the proposal, you personally?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U52	Thank you for your question. My personal opinion, which I also expressed in the Commission, is that there is no need for such a restriction on the initiative of the people. 25000 votes in the Estonian context means that referendums will be used for political propaganda. Certain niche groups, even accordion players, pharmacists and others, never get 25,000 signatures. This means that valuable initiatives will not reach Parliament. My suggestion is that we should proceed with the Constitution, which speaks of letters of formal notice. I believe that a few or three hundred signatures should be sufficient for the Commission to discuss the public's proposal. I think that such an opportunity would be much more beneficial to democracy than this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U53	Please, Mr Tarmo Tamm, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U54	Thank you, Madam President. Good colleague! I know you were very active in the work of the people's assembly. But if this bill was rejected in the Riigikogu, did the work of the Riigikogu make any sense?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U55	Thank you. When I followed the debate in the Commission, it seemed to me that all the parties were interested in increasing the involvement of the people. I am quite sure that, in one form or another, we will be able to find a solution that we will be adopting in the near future. But whether or not the work of the public assembly made sense, we did not talk at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U56	Please, Mr Allik!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U57	Dear waitress, You said in your presentation that this bill did not create positive emotions in the Government of the Republic. I want to know why. Is it just because the author of the bill was the Centre Party, or did the government give other emotional reasons?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U58	Thank you. The position of the Government of the Republic was that the involvement of the people should be improved, but it makes sense to use other instruments, such as memos or petitions. That's what they said in their opinion.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U59	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U60	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good waitress! What kind of initiatives, what kind of bill do you fear, you and your peers, that you are so against this bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U61	Thank you. Personally, I am afraid that there will not be enough of these initiatives, because this limit of 25000 signatures is not realistic. I hope that if we use a lower limit, there will be more initiatives. Personally, I am not afraid that the people will make proposals to the Riigikogu. On the contrary, I really want this to happen.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U62	Please, colleague Kalev Kallo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U63	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, There is no doubt, of course, that there was a so-called co-operation with the coalition with the Riigikogu and the Riigikogu of the President's Show. However, as a result of this, the proposal to legitimise the referendum and the coalition is against it, the question arises as to whether this event was simply meant to be a show and a public eye, and from the outset there was no intention to support any of the proposals that came from there. Was it so planned?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U64	Thank you. We did not talk about the general public at this committee meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U65	Please, my colleague Kajar Lember!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U66	Thank you, President-in-Office. Good waitress! We still receive relatively many memos as members of the Riigikogu. They have more or less signatures. Now, if this idea of a petition were to be introduced here, what do you think would be the procedure for implementing the petition? If we had a petition instead of a letter of formal notice, how would it actually be applied as a bill?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U67	Thank you. My opinion is that this proposal will reach the Commission that deals with this area of expertise, and the Commission will discuss it in a public session. Ideally, the video of this public hearing could also be available online. If the Commission decides to initiate the draft, this draft will reach this large hall. It could look something like that.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U68	Please, Mr Allik, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U69	Dear waitress, You have emphasised twice that the main objection to this draft is that 25000 signatures are too many, that is an unrealistic number and that allows political propaganda. As you said, the interests of small interest groups, such as accordion players, would not come under the law. Let me get this straight: you would support this bill if it were to be reduced to, say, 2,500 or 250?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U70	Thank you. Personally, I would support this draft if, in addition to being so strict, this restriction would not go to the large hall but to the Commission, because it would rule out a situation in which Parliament could ignore the will of the people. The Commission would then be obliged to hold a public hearing where, apart from the initiator who defends his draft, all those who wish to come from this category would also be able to attend. In my opinion, this would produce a much better result and a constructive debate, which may not be possible if the draft launched in a referendum, for example, is not suitable for a majority in Parliament.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U71	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U72	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! To be honest, I did not understand the arguments against this draft. You said that if there were less than 25 000 signatures in the draft, that would be better, and in the future, I am speculating, we could discuss the matter and it would have a result. But why didn't you make this good proposal, so you assessed it now, your specific proposal, there would have been arguments and work would have been done? But right now it's like you're just throwing this bill out of procedure.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U73	Thank you. I have the minutes of the committee sitting here. I can see from here that's exactly what I proposed. My proposal was that the initiator of the draft could withdraw the draft for a moment, in a few weeks we hope to be able to find consensus and move forward calmly. However, the initiator did not agree with this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U74	Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! What is left for you to see that, on the basis of our proposal, in the procedure of amending the Constitution and later in this Chamber, the draft law, as if it did not reach the Commission, so that no real debate would take place? I think that the real debate is taking place both in the Commission and in the large Chamber. I mentioned in my report that the draft laws that have arrived at Parliament by means of a popular initiative are, in principle, dealt with in the same way as all the other drafts that come into this Chamber: when it comes to a draft law, there are three readings and there are debates in committees. In fact, the drafts that have come to Parliament on the basis of our proposal could all be properly and thoroughly discussed and dealt with, even for my sake, in public sessions, because this is also allowed now, if the chairman of the committee decides so.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U76	Thank you. Once again, I was talking about potential memos. In that case, the Commission's meeting would be public by default. It is indeed up to the chairman of the committee at the moment, and this decision may not be a positive one. I therefore believe that the draft law itself is a step in the right direction, but unfortunately it is not a very constructive step.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U77	Please, my colleague, Inara Luigas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U78	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, Representatives of the national assembly and the president's private office were also invited to the debate on this bill. There was a public hearing. If they were in favour of legitimising the popular initiative, did they express themselves precisely in such a way that all this should take place by amending the Constitution? What was their position, should we start with the amendment of the constitution?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U79	Thank you. Unfortunately, we did not know their position, because they were not present at the Commission meeting.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U80	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U81	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! You have very interesting thoughts about this bill. The question is why you then decided in the Commission to vote this draft out of the procedure, not to leave it in the procedure and, for a certain time, to make improvements, to supplement it and to adopt a more appropriate option.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U82	Thank you. As I mentioned, this was also my proposal, which was not supported by the initiator of the draft. There are fundamental differences between the mechanism of a petition or a letter of formal notice. The draft talks about referendums, not letters of formal notice. In order to bring it into line with this second point, it is still necessary to do some very thorough work so that there is quite little left of the current draft in this case.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U83	Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U84	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I'm a little more specific about Inara Luigas. He was referring to the public hearing of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, where one topic was the involvement of the people. The representatives of the people's assembly, the president's office and Praxis were invited. What was their opinion on the involvement of the people, whether it should be done by amending the Constitution or by any other means?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U85	Thank you. Let me remind you of what is our current subject. We are talking about another meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I remember that these people you mentioned supported the implementation of popular initiatives through petitions or memos. They recalled that this was also one of the main topics of the people's assembly. I think we all believe that we can implement this proposal in this Chamber, perhaps not in the form we are discussing today.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U86	Please, Mr Mikko, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U87	Thank you very much. Please tell me whether the draft was rejected in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs because the draft was submitted by the opposition.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U88	Thank you. As far as I am concerned, I did not vote as I did. Unfortunately, I cannot comment on the vote of others.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U89	Please, Mr Toobal, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! I would remind you that the Riigikogu did not prescribe the way in which the People's Initiative Act should be implemented. If the President's Office has subsequently expressed any opinion, the opinion of the official of the President's Office must certainly not be regarded as the opinion of the Riigikogu. But I'm asking about the memos. Indeed, the Constitution provides an opportunity for the people to address Parliament with a letter of formal notice. The Constitution has been in force for a few decades, but so far there is no provision for Parliament to deal with and respond to letters of formal notice. Your party has been a coalition leader party for 15 years. Why have you not adopted any order or law that provides for further processing of the memos if you really want to involve the people? This is what the government expressed in its position.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U91	Thank you. After all, my answer was the answer to your colleague's question. But as far as the mechanism for handling memos is concerned, my opinion is that it does not work because there is no procedure in law for this. It is not enough that such a concept exists in the Constitution; it must also be rewritten. That is what I proposed to the Commission and I hope that, in one form or another, we will move forward on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U92	Please, colleague Sven Mikser!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U93	Thank you. Honourable waitress! If I understood you correctly, your understanding is that when a petition is submitted, the Riigikogu Committee should necessarily discuss the matter in a public session. When the Social Democrats proposed amending the Home and Working Procedures Act in order to make the process and discussion of draft laws public in committees, the coalition was remembered against it for the reason that it would make the discussions populist. Then, in the case of a petition, would you make an exception and allow populism?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U94	Thank you. I must remind you, once again, that we have this bill in debate today, not the second or third one. But I think it would be wise to make this hearing public right now and to make the materials available afterwards. Then, for example, people who will need this idea in a few years will be able to get to know what the Riigikogu thought of the previous version of the proposal. This would also benefit civil society.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U95	Please, Mr Lember, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U96	Thank you. I am still asking what you think is the difference between a letter of formal notice and a petition.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U97	Thank you. It is not a question of these two terms, but of whether it is a collective or individual petition. At present, a letter of formal notice can also be submitted by an individual. He writes the letter and sends it to the Riigikogu. My suggestion is that if there is a certain number of signatures under this petition, a petition is usually a collective letter, then it will automatically reach the Commission. But once again, even now, everyone can submit a proposal; a person can write to his or her national envoy or to another national envoy. I believe that a member of the Riigikogu should respond to the letters sent to him.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U98	Please, Mr Luigas, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U99	Thank you. Honourable waitress! I was a little wrong earlier. I was talking about a public hearing with representatives and other persons from Praxis. Here's my question. When you discussed this bill, were the representatives of the people's assembly invited to the Commission? If he wasn't invited, why wasn't he?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U100	Thank you. As I mentioned, Kristen Kanarik, a government representative working at the Ministry of Justice, was invited, and the author of the draft also made a presentation. The representative of the Riigikogu was not invited to the debate on this bill. My personal opinion is as follows. We have a number of draft laws in order, but it is probably not easy for people who also have jobs and other duties to participate constantly in Riigikogu committees. However, I believe that we will be able to involve them in the debate on important issues.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U101	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Korobenik. Let's start the negotiations. I call on the speaker's desk as a representative of my colleague, Mr Stalnukhin's Central Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U102	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Before this debate started, I had no intention of coming here. I am grateful to the group for giving me this opportunity. Why did I come here? In my opinion, there were two questions. Firstly, whether it is necessary to give the people the opportunity to take a public initiative. Secondly, why is the coalition afraid that the people will have this opportunity to take initiative? Since our representative democracy has long become a clown, I must tell you that the examples that illustrate these two questions are taken from a book I read 30 or 35 years ago. I apologize to historians who are in the hall, for not remembering names, dates, etc. very accurately. One story comes from ancient Greece, where the Persians invaded a few hundred years before Christ's birth. Greece put together its forces, stood up to the aggressor, and on a fine day, two armies stood up against each other. Then came the local ministers of the religious cult, the priests, and said, You know, we looked at the insides of the pigeons, and it turned out that if our troops were standing now, not in the territory of this city state, but in the territory of the neighbouring city state, then victory would be secured. But you placed your troops two kilometers to the right, and the birds predict that we will lose this battle. " That's what the priests said. Next, the people had their word. What did the people do? The smartest thing that could have been done in this situation. They took the boundary stones and just carried them two kilometers to the other side. So they satisfied the gods at the time and won this battle. So let us learn from ancient Greece. As for why the coalition is afraid of this bill, I have nothing to say about Estonia for some reason, because we have no democracy for a long time, as I said, and we are moving towards the police state, and that is all said. But in an ancient Greek city state, it was the custom that if someone wanted to change the law, they put a gallows and some taboo or what furniture they had there. The one who offered to change the law was put to it by a rope, of course. The rope around his neck had to read him what he wanted to do. After the people voted, they said their word. It was like a water check, but in ancient Greece. If the crowd resisted, that person stayed on that field. That's what this is about! The current government coalition is conducting anti-people policies. They do not need the people simply to be able to draw them to heaven by means of a public initiative. I can hear Mrs. Ergma sighing really hard behind me. I'm just finishing up. Of course, on such a great day, when, after all, one 10 x 10 x 10 cube hangs somewhere in space...
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U103	Sorry, no hanging!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U104	Does it fly?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U105	Yeah.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U106	I'm not an astrophysicist. I have problems with the terms of astrophysics. Well, he's flying in space, maybe he's floating. There may be another word to find. This, of course, is very important. But the subject of the public initiative is boring, it makes me sigh, it makes no sense to talk about it. We'll see who votes, of course. It's been a few months until the election. We have a good opportunity to recall who and how he views the people who fear the people, who are not afraid, who understand that he is the servant of the people, and who are willing to be this servant and do what the people want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U107	Thank you very much, Mr Stalnukhin. I would like to ask my colleague, Mr Saare, to speak as a representative of the Social Democratic Party Group.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U108	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this meaningful debate. I think we all got a little smarter again. But that is a subject that I think needs to be clarified in much more depth not only in this Chamber but also in society at large, today's Riigikogu session proved eloquently. We have essentially dealt with this subject quite briefly at a meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and today in this Chamber, and here we have not been able to boast with the attention of the public (at least on the coalition side, the opposition has been well present). At the same time, however, we realize that we are hopelessly confused with all kinds of concepts. Before we have made them clear, it is very difficult at all to have any dialogue so that the rest of society can understand it. This morning, news on the radio (I don't know if this mess had slipped into it because of the author of the press release or had gotten mixed up on the radio) was that the popular initiative and referendum were being discussed in the Riigikogu today. Those two completely different things were in one pot together. The referendum means direct democracy and obliges the country to take any one or other decision. However, the popular initiative is an example of participatory democracy. The Riigikogu is offered a draft law that it can finalise, framed, redesigned and behave with it at its best. We also talked today about a petition or a letter of formal notice. We have not really clarified what we are talking about. If we look at even the same documents relating to the draft law we are debating today, such as the position of the Government of the Republic, we can see that there are hopelessly confused concepts of 'participation democracy' (in my opinion, it could be implemented much more in Estonia) and 'direct democracy', which means something other than the active participation of people in the inter-election period, not to mention representative democracy and the use of the word 'inclusion', which is completely incorrect. We have been in the habit of talking a lot about inclusion lately. For example, let us look at the position of the Government of the Republic on the draft law that we are dealing with. Rumbles, rumbles the drum! At the outset, the Government of the Republic states that at its meeting on 11 April 2013, it decided to support greater involvement in the exercise of public authority, but not to support this draft law. The opinion also goes behind the Constitutional Assembly, which was known to take place more than 20 years ago, in order to justify in any way the rejection of this bill. It is again said in the drum roll: 'Citizens should be given greater attention to involving citizens in the exercise of public power through political parties and the third sector instead of creating additional opportunities to participate in state life in the form of direct democracy. ' I would like to remind you that at the end of the working hours of the previous Riigikogu, the Riigikogu unanimously adopted developments in legal policy until 2018 I do not know how many times I will remind you of this remote control, where we all agreed nicely that in any legislative initiative, good practice of lawmaking must be applied, where involvement in the legislative process of the target groups concerned is regulated. Okay, that's when the election came up. After the elections, we had a new Minister of Justice, who is now generally among us, even though he is not in the Chamber at the moment. A few months after his entry into office, he promised to implement best practice in lawmaking on behalf of the government, as a result of developments in legal policy. If we look at the decisions made over the last two years that have followed this promise and we recall that one reaction to them has been all that we have seen in society over the last year, that is to say, a reaction to the coalition's policy of government and its roadblock policy, we will see that, in fact, in making important decisions for the state, there has never been a good practice of lawmaking in two years, when we are talking about decisions by the government union. I'm asking for more time!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U109	In the light of the current situation, there is a beautiful example of inclusion. In my opinion, inclusion is also usually very energy- and time-intensive. It is not always necessary to engage; inviting to participate is often more effective and purposeful. A good ruler, if he wants to talk about the matter and does not want to get behind the various terms and juggling them, knows what is at the moment using participatory democracy and where it makes sense to work to involve people in making very important decisions that they may otherwise not be able to keep up to date. But we have a very good example of inclusion, and not so much on the populist issue. It was precisely in terms of inclusion that a great deal of work was done with the people's assembly. As a result of this involvement, a specific proposal, to a greater or lesser extent, was probably not entirely the same as it was, but at least 99% as recorded in the draft law under discussion: 25000 people have the right to a popular initiative. But we reject this proposal without further discussion. We know that parliamentary practice can peacefully end the first reading and then begin to complement the draft law. In my opinion, this bill is not perfect at all. I do not understand, for example, why the possibility of bringing very important matters of state life to the Chamber of the Riigikogu by means of a popular initiative is being taken away, such as the pay of teachers, some tax issue or any question of our economic structure. Yes, in my opinion, these changes could be introduced here, or at least negotiated, and come back to this issue. But today to the public assembly, which is an excellent example and perhaps the only good example of inclusion in recent times: 'No, it is empty work and the chewing of the spirit; we did not need it in the Riigikogu! ', then I think it's a very wrong signal. All the more so since Andrei Korobeinik, who also presented the draft on behalf of the coalition and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, said about the bill that it was a step in the right direction. I hope, Andrei, that you will support and your thinkers will support the completion of the first reading so that we can discuss this issue further in committee, in public and closed sessions, in the large Chamber of the Riigikogu as an important national issue and in other forms of work. Thank you for your attention. I call on you to support the completion of the first reading.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U110	Thank you very much, Mr Indrek Saar. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. As the lead committee has proposed to reject the draft 395 at first reading, we need to vote through this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting to reject the draft proposal by the commission at first reading. Please vote! 44 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 36 against, no abstentions. The proposal was supported. Bill 395 fell out of the proceedings. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. Closure of the sitting at 11.18 a.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-05-07_U111	Three minutes.
