ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister and Members of the Government. Let's start today's briefing. Please, let's do the presence check! 35 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 66 are missing. The following members of government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimannus and Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher. Ladies and gentlemen, since we have seven registered issues today, I promise only two on-the-spot issues for each issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U2	Let's get started. Please, Mr Stalnukhin, question to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U3	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Prime Minister! As the electricity market opens up, electricity prices will rise this year, quite harshly. This has led to increased public interest in Eesti Energia projects. At the moment, I would like to discuss the Utah project, which, according to the journalists of the Estonian Express, could cause damage as much as one hundred million dollars in the worst case. Were you familiar with this investment and the risks involved, and how do you feel about it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U4	Thank you. I wasn't familiar with all the details. The Prime Minister of the State does not need to be familiar with the details of the company's business plans. First of all, I will correct your claim that electricity prices will rise in Estonia due to the opening of the electricity market. If something happens after that, it doesn't mean it did. The price of electricity in Estonia is rising because Eesti Energia is obliged to purchase carbon dioxide emission quotas for the production of electricity. This is why the price of electricity is rising. This is not because the electricity market is opening up. If Eesti Energia had already bought quotas for money last year, the price of electricity would have increased last year, despite the fact that the electricity market in Estonia was not open. Now about the investment of Eesti Energia in the United States. It is known that no business is risk-free. All businesses are inevitably exposed to risks. The risks that can be foreseen are usually mitigated in the business plan, while the unforeseen risks always remain. That's the business risk. At the moment, according to my understanding, Eesti Energia has taken into account the cost of buying land and resources for 42 million dollars. Investments in the development of the project must be made further. Investments combined with the purchase of land could amount to a total of one hundred million dollars and the expected benefits could be 2.6 billion dollars.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U5	Please, Mr Stalnukhin, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U6	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Prime Minister! Since you weren't familiar with this deal, it seems you can't be presented with any complaints. But there's no way you couldn't have read the story since it came to the public. That is why my second question is this. You spoke very nicely about risk assessment. However, no one has alleged to have carried out research on the Utah deposits. If it is common for such an investment to be planned without prior verification, is there any way to recover from it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U7	Thank you. In my opinion, Eesti Energia has not kept the information important to the taxpayer, or the people of Estonia, to itself. The Estonian people have been constantly informed about the start of this project, about the purchase of land and about further developments. In Estonia, oil and energy production time can be measured in an industrial way in almost a hundred years. We have excellent expertise in this area, and it would be a sin to keep them to ourselves. The management of Eesti Energia has estimated that the investment in the project could be one hundred million dollars and the profits or sales revenue have been estimated at 2.6 billion dollars. That's a pretty big difference. At least according to what I know, we can't say that the project has failed right now. It is quite clear that oil shale is of different quality and characteristics in different parts of the world, and production technologies need to be adapted to the types of oil shale. I see nothing unprecedented or anything that could seriously surprise Eesti Energia. To my knowledge, the energy content of Utah oil shale is considerable and allows Enefit 280 technology to be used.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U8	Please, Mr Stalnukhin, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U9	Thank you, Madam President. Yes, the energy content of this oil shale is considerable, compared to the oil shale in Brazil, for example, but enormously low compared to the oil shale in Jordan. I could tell you a lot about oil shale in Estonia, Russia, Jordan and other countries. The question is not that certain risks exist either way. I quote one comment to this article of the Estonian Express: 'I wonder where Estonian Energy had such an absurd idea to bury money in the Utah desert? Like in Buratino's book! The question is that oil shale technologies have been used in America for a very long time, a very advanced country in this sense. If there is a deposit standing and no one is touching it, it is clear that there are certain very high risks. Who will take responsibility if this project goes down and Eesti Energia loses a hundred million dollars?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U10	Thank you. I am pleased that there are people in the Riigikogu who know the subtleties of the properties of oil shale in Estonia, Russia and Jordan and also know the nuances of the oil shale in Utah. To my knowledge, Utah's oil shale is a piece of oil shale, which is a prerequisite for using Enefit 280 technology. Experiments in oil production have shown that this stone is breaking down more severely than the oil shale in Estonia. But that's not the main problem. It is important that the degradation produces fine dust, which must be taken into account when modernising the test apparatus. I think it is entirely natural that new oil shale resources require some technology to be adjusted. Technological processes are not so simple that one universal device can be used at any point in the world. This concerns not only oil shale but also other natural resources. Exactly one of the oil refineries being copied to one is not much to find in the world, mostly each refinery is counting on the crude oil it uses. So I don't see anything technologically unprecedented about the American case right now. I believe this project is a success, otherwise the management of Eesti Energia would not have done so. If this is not successful (the probability I consider very small), the management of Eesti Energia will probably also be responsible.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U11	Thank you very much. Now two issues registered on the spot. Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U12	Thank you. Mr Prime Minister! There have still been a number of problems in the realm of the Minister of Economic Affairs, Juhan Parts. We were talking about major projects of Eesti Energia. I add problems with oil shale blocks and open electricity market, but also with Estonian Air and Tallinn Port management. After all, we remember the cases of the Road Administration's tourism, problems in EAS, questions about the renewable energy fee and the Väo traffic hub. Everything doesn't come to mind at the same time. Are you satisfied with this minister's actions in the government? How thoroughly have you discussed these issues? How does the Minister for Economic Affairs influence the reputation of the government in his actions?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U13	Thank you. I am not entirely satisfied with myself or with the actions of any minister. More effort could always be made, work could always be more effective. However, my dissatisfaction is certainly not so great that we should talk about the resignation of some ministers. I wouldn't want to become a lawyer for the Estonian Energia American project because I don't know all the details, even though I've been a little familiar with oil shale technologies in my chemistry lectures at the university. However, what I do know is that if we have a know-how and knowledge in a narrow area, we should try to realise this knowledge on the world market. It is obviously early to talk about the losses or profits of the Utah project; the project is simply not at this stage. The first time to measure results will come in 2016 if any estimates can be made. But right now the difference between benefits and losses is what I have already said: the maximum possible damage is $100 million, the maximum possible benefit is $2.6 billion. Maybe at some stage of Skype's development, you could have told Skype's boys not to rebel, not to deal with this, they're gonna bury a lot of money, and they're gonna make a loss! In the end, however, they made a huge profit.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U14	The last issue registered on the ground, Mr Lenk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U15	Thank you. Prime Minister! You speak convincingly and convince us that there are always risks in business and that the fate of Skype could have been different. It is all right, I do not object to that, but I would remind you that, at the moment, it is taxpayers' money that is being invested. Hence my question: would it not have been necessary to discuss such large and important funds in the Riigikogu in advance?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U16	These are the company's resources. The company's resources are neither legally nor intrinsically comparable with those of the state budget. They cannot be considered literally taxpayers' funds either. If the Riigikogu, the legislative assembly, were to be involved in the operational management of the company, the separation of powers in Estonia would be out of order. This situation would certainly not be in line with our constitution. I certainly agree with the need to inform the Riigikogu and the people more. There is never enough information, there can and must be more information, there will probably be fewer speculation. In this particular case, this 100 million talk did not come from somewhere in the Estonian Express, but from an interview by Sandor Liive with Director magazine. It comes from her own hands. In this upside-down way, Sandor Liive's considerations have become an argument against Sandor Liive and the Estonian Energia Utah project. I don't think it's quite natural for me to overpick like that. I also do not consider it reasonable to use such fragments of information outside the context. The project as a whole should be assessed, examined at what stage it is, and only then decide whether or not there are grounds for categorical claims. I have no grounds for categorical claims at this stage.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U17	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U18	The next question is from my colleague, Heljo Pikhof, to the Minister for the Environment, Keit Pentus-Rosimethus.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U19	Thank you. Dear Minister of the Environment, According to the Helsinki Commission, a quarter of the amount of phosphorus entering the sea comes from detergents that waste water treatment plants cannot extract from waste water. From s. a 30 June, the European Union regulation prohibits the addition of phosphates in detergents. This is expected to be a major financial victory in the waste water treatment plant sector, as well as in the cleaning sector. Of course, it is also hoped that our bodies of water will be cleaner. What is the state of Estonia's preparations for the disposal of phosphate-containing detergents and how have consumers been informed and trained?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U20	Thank you. This is indeed a pretty important issue from an environmental point of view. If, for example, we look at the situation of the Baltic Sea or our rivers and other water bodies, we can see that it is not getting any better as quickly as we would probably like. These same phosphate-containing detergents and their subsequent discharge through wastewater into water bodies are one of the reasons for this. True, when we talk about eutrophication, the direct effect of detergents on eutrophication is about 10%. So even if we could completely undo its effects, the problem would still not go away. In Estonia, the Ministry of Social Affairs is involved in the preparation and supervision of this direct regulation. I talked to the Health Board today. This institution will start after s. a 1 July for monitoring purposes. They have confirmed that all necessary steps have been taken and will be taken to prepare the monitoring.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U21	Please, Mr Pikhof, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U22	Thank you. According to the HELCOM Baltic Sea Action Plan, Estonia had to prepare for the removal of phosphates in detergents by 2010. They've been behind this schedule for three years. Why? I understand perfectly well that chemicals are handled by the Ministry of Social Affairs, but this is also your area of expertise.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U23	In 2010, it began to do so. a prepare the regulation which will enter into force on 30 June 2004 at European level. This Regulation shall enter into force in part on 30 June. The part concerning laundry powders and detergents used in dishwashers will only enter into force on 1 January 2017. The reason probably is that general and directly applicable rules began to be prepared at European Union level. As far as Estonia is concerned, we also produce phosphate-free laundry powders. I do not want to advertise any washing powder here, but such washing powders produced in Estonia are completely available on our market. When it comes to this regulation, it is practical to mention that the ban concerns placing on the market. From s. The placing on the market of washing powders containing more phosphates in Estonia is prohibited from June 30, and will be monitored by the Health Board. Could these preparations have gone faster? Of course, they could have gone faster, but it is good that they are at last so far away that, from 1 July, the Estonian market is no longer allowed to market washing powders containing more phosphates.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U24	Please, Mr Pikhof, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U25	If it were not for this regulation, which the European Union makes compulsory for us to deal with this issue, would anything have changed in Estonia? Do we have to wait for the European Union's regulations to clean up our bodies of water, or could we sometimes be the initiators?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U26	Thank you. After all, the European Union is nowhere remote and separate from us. A regulation at European Union level means that we ourselves, as representatives of the Estonian state, have been actively involved in the development of this regulation. Our contribution has been quite important there, too. As regards the overall reduction of pollutants and pollution loads, here too, we have established quite a number of rules in Estonia, not only in relation to water bodies. Today, at first reading, you have a draft law on industrial emissions, which deals with industrial emissions in general. So regardless of the work we have done at European Union level, we have also imposed a number of important additional restrictions in Estonia so that our bodies of water can be cleaned up. But when we talk, for example, about the Baltic Sea, of course, we must speak as things are. Only Estonia's efforts are limited. It has therefore been important for us that these rules be established not only in one or two countries, but also in the European Union and in the wider Baltic Sea countries. You referred to HELCOM, which is certainly a good form of cooperation to agree on such rules, because not all countries along the Baltic Sea belong to the European Union and the rules of the European Union do not apply in all countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U27	Thank you very much, Madam Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U28	The next question is from my colleague Marika Tuus-Laul to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U29	Thank you. Dear Minister, You made a strong promise last year to raise the pay of rescue workers. Now we see that the raise will be around 5%. The Director General of the Rescue Board, Kalev Timberg, has stated that this wage increase is first and foremost solidarity and that the average wage of the Agency's staff is the last in line of average wages before the Defence League. If we consider that ministers have promised a wage increase in almost all public institutions, then the saviour wage increase is nothing special. What is the average pay for the rescuers, and do you think it corresponds to their workload?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U30	Thank you very much for your question. First of all, I would like to introduce that, as far as I know, Estonia is one of the few Member States of the European Union where wages are rising in the field of internal security and probably in the public sector as a whole this year. It is probably the only Member State of the European Union where salaries in the area of internal security are rising in this way. Salaries for rescuers will rise by at least 5% in 2013, which means that each rescuer will receive at least a 5% wage increase. A total of 2.45 million euros has been allocated for wage increases. We cannot talk specifically about the rise in the wages of one or another savior in numbers, as rescuers are known to be divided into categories according to their professional skills, and the size of the salary also depends on the workload of the rescue team in which one or the other savior works. We can say that on average, the wages of the rescuers will rise by 7% and the wages of the 1,800 rescuers will rise. I can give you some examples. The first group's rescue team (i.e. the lowest group) raises the senior rescuer's salary by 6%, the savior's salary by 7% and the lead rescuer's salary by 7%. The second group's savior's salary goes up by 8%. The average wage increase of the rescuers is 7%, while each one raises at least 5%. The prerequisite for this is wage reform, which was also discussed at the end of last year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U31	Please, my colleague Marika Tuus-Laul, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U32	Thank you. Clearly, an increase of 5 to 7% is better than a drop, but I am still asking for the following. If we look back, we will see that, for example, since 2010, we have had more than 20% increase in food prices. In a bad way, we are at the top of Europe in terms of rising food prices. If we look at home expenses, there has been the highest price increase in the whole period. In your time, you very much promised a reduction in home expenses. I even have your words written out of the verbatim, where you will allow us to halve heating and water costs. A 5% increase in wages is expected in a very large number of sectors of public service. Couldn't we have put a little more effort into these good people?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U33	Thank you for your question. The general wage growth in the public sector is 4.4%, but as I said, the pay of rescuers will rise by at least 5%, but on average by 7%. It is possible for the state to allow wage increases on the basis of its own possibilities. As you know, we are coming out of the economic crisis and our prospects will improve this year. I think that we are one of the few European countries where these opportunities are growing in the public sector. This is also reflected in our clear priority, which is pay. On average, a 7% wage increase is in line with our options. The general principle of our state budget is that costs and revenues are balanced. But it is quite clear that from here we can only move forward, it concerns both the rescuers and the police. It is good that Estonia can raise wages in the public sector. We know that wages are frozen in a large number of European countries, including those called 'developed countries'. I am not talking about a number of Central and Eastern European countries. We are able to improve people's motivation this year. I also mentioned wage reform. The salary reform in the Rescue Board is due to the fact that in times of economic downturn, the salaries of a large number of posts in the Rescue Board have become disproportionate. For example, people lack the motivation to take the lead in the hierarchy of rescuers. This is what we will be changing this year with the wage reform if we clean up the entire wage structure.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U34	Please, my colleague Marika Tuus-Laul, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U35	Thank you. You say wages are frozen in Europe. But let's just remember, a couple of years ago, we had them frozen, too. In your administration, wages even decreased. After all, we can allow things to be embellished by a 5% wage increase and a big promotion, saying that the wage increase is greater than in other areas, but it is not the brave citizens who offer us a sense of security, especially not comforting. I have already made reference to the price increases that concern both food and home expenses. Can you make a little promise when the savior wages will rise next time? They are really doing a very responsible and dangerous job for this little, little salary.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U36	Thank you for your question. The rise in the wages of the Saviors has been confirmed by the same Riigikogu of which you are a member, based on the possibilities that the state has. I very much hope that we will look to the future optimistically, but what is happening around us, what is generally happening in the European economic environment, does not inspire too much optimism. Estonia stands out, however, by being able to raise wages and improve people's motivation this year. This has also been a clear priority for the government. We hope that we will have the same opportunities in the coming years. It is clear that the motivation of people in the area of internal security is very important. The Ministry of the Interior has the largest area of government: about 10,000 people work every day for the safety of all of us. These various changes, as well as internal reforms, are intended precisely to enable good professionals to have better working conditions. This year, as well as next year, new buildings will be built and the working environment renewed. This year, for example, the construction of new buildings for rescue commandos will begin both in Tallinn and Tartu. The state budget adds funds for the acquisition of technical resources, such as personal protection equipment for rescuers, as well as other technical equipment. We are doing everything we can to make the work of these brave men and women easier, to improve the quality of their work and to better motivate people.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U37	I would like to ask a question registered on the spot, Mr Tarmo Tamm.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U38	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. As we know, 11 rescue commandos were shut down last year. As a result, money had to be released, which could significantly increase the wages of other rescue workers. Today, it has become apparent that wage increases are minimal, more or less equal to inflation rates. You talked a lot about how many percent of the workers' pay goes up. The percentage doesn't fill the stomach, and the family doesn't support. How much is currently the salary of the average rescue worker in Estonia, excluding the salary of the superiors?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U39	Thank you for your question. I thought I explained that in the answer I gave you the last one. As I said, salary increases by an average of 7% in different categories of commando groups. The salary of the third group, or the highest command group, who works in the Lilleküla command, will be 865 euros. The savior receives 61 euros per month and the salary rises by 7%. I can also give an example of the lowest category, i.e. the least busy rescue team. For example, the Värska Command will receive 33 euros per month to the savior, with a 6% raise. As regards the organisation of the rescue crew network, this was one of the major changes in 2012. For twenty years, no such remediation had been undertaken. The reason for the amendment was, in particular, that the risks and risks associated with rescue situations have changed significantly over the twenty years and that many people have changed their place of residence. It is therefore perfectly natural for a country to relocate its ability to save. For this reason, nine rescue units were reorganized and a large number of rescuers from these commandos found an application in another command. The total number of rescuers did not change. I think the statistics so far suggest that this change has justified itself. It takes into account the changed conditions, risks and risks in the territory of the Republic of Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U40	The last issue registered on the spot, my colleague Peter Võsa.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U41	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, You have already talked about motivation and new houses, but a part of dignity is also a dignified old-age pension. Unfortunately, I am also a member of the Riigikogu, who cheated on 195 police pensioners' pensions. Can you confirm that nothing like this will happen in the future in the field of salvation?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U42	Thank you for your question. As far as special pensions are concerned, we have also spoken about this on several occasions in the Committee on Legal Affairs, of which you are a honourable member. The special pension system as a whole is being processed at the Ministry of Social Affairs. This concerns special pensions in various fields and the administration of several ministries, such as the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior. We hope that the Ministry of Social Affairs will come up with a holistic approach this year. This analysis is being carried out to my knowledge. Then we can talk about the conclusions and proposals that result from this analysis.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U43	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U44	The next question is from Mr Vakra to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U45	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Last week, the government decided to move Eesti Energia to the administration of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, i.e. Juhan Parts, the Ministry of Finance or Jürgen Ligi. The government has recently used Eesti Energia as a financial instrument for the execution of the state budget, not as a possible economic engine. What was the purpose of this warring when Eesti Energia was transferred to the Ministry of Finance? Do you think that Eesti Energia is still a financial instrument or an electricity producer for the state?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U46	Thank you. It is not polite to answer the question with a question, but I will ask you. What kind of government are you talking about? The Government of the Republic of Estonia, under my leadership, has not made this decision by you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U47	I would like to ask a question registered on the ground, Mr Kaljuvee.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U48	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Last week, Mr Vakra asked about this question during the debate in the government. There it seemed that the decision was made to move Eesti Energia to the Ministry of Finance. However, the debate on this subject itself shows that the government has become quite nervous. This can be seen by looking at these decisions and also at the signs that have emerged in relation to Eesti Energia, just thinking about its aggressive investment policy. I wonder if Eesti Energia will not invest too aggressively. What do you think of that? After all, this is consumer money and the price of electricity depends on it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U49	Thank you. Once again, last week, the Government of the Republic did not discuss the issue you referred to. I don't know where the opposite information comes from. In principle, the European Union Directive provides that the manufacturer and the regulator, or the supervisory authority, cannot be part of the same administrative area; they should be independent of each other. But I repeat, last week the Government of the Republic did not discuss the question you referred to. The investments of Eesti Energia have been known to everyone; they have also been known to all members of the Riigikogu. These investments, which have been made to increase electricity generation capacity, have certainly been very necessary. You could also be sure of this during the discussion of a motion of distrust. Investment in the expansion and modernisation of oil production is certainly necessary. We have resources, great demand and knowledge. In my opinion, it would not be very rational if we did not try to bring these resources, knowledge and need together.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U50	Mr Vakra, you have obviously come up with a first point of clarification. I hope that it is not about what was discussed in the government, because this issue was not discussed. Please, Mr Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U51	The issue to be clarified is investment. Today's Question Time has repeatedly mentioned investments in America and also what is being done on the territory of the Republic of Estonia. But I have a specific question about investments. Eesti Energia was aware of its intention to build two oil shale plants. Recently, Eesti Energia made a decision (i hope it was really a decision) not to build another oil shale plant. Can you tell me what changed between now and why you think the original plan was abandoned?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U52	Thank you. This is not a decision not to build the plant, but a debate on the possibility of not building the second boiler. The Government of the Republic is also discussing this issue. Currently, the builder of the first boiler has an option to build the second boiler. The contractor or contractor is prepared to extend this option by one year. Whether it is necessary or not, we should give a fundamental answer in the first half of this year. In principle, the decision can be postponed for another year. At the moment, there is such an understanding that we have sufficient capacity until 2024 without a new boiler being built. Changes in basic data have resulted in particular from changes in the views of the European Commission. We can use old installed capacity for much longer than we originally expected. As we know, our maximum consumption is 1600 megawatts, but we currently have installed capacity of around 2400 megawatts. In fact, there is slightly more capacity, but almost 1000 megawatts of installed capacity are falling away if no additional investment is made to keep it running.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U53	Please, Mr Vakra, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U54	Thank you. According to my information (I received them at Lembit Kaljuvee counseling) there are two kettles in the first block and two kettles in the second block and the first two kettles are built, and others are not. But let's not stop it again. My question is this: do you agree in principle that in a sense brakes should be put on the investments of Eesti Energia and reviewed more critically?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U55	Eesti Energia investments must meet the needs of the Estonian state. If Eesti Energia were merely a profit-making company and had no obligation to guarantee Estonia's energy supply, then we could say that yes, no more investments would be needed, as the profit-making company would probably be interested in energy deficit, as then the price of energy would be higher. But a state-owned company carries out public tasks in a certain sense; it must ensure the energy supply of the Estonian population, so it is undoubtedly necessary to invest.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U56	I would like to ask you the last question registered on the ground, Mr Kõiv.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U57	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! I also have a question about this subject. You visited London some time ago and met with British Prime Minister David Cameron. He has just delivered his long-awaited speech, in which he stated very clearly as the first principle that the common market, including the digital single market, is extremely important to the British. However, he did not mention energy or the energy sector in any way among his principles. That leads to my two-part question. Did you and the British Prime Minister come up with the views of our government on the common market, including the digital single market, as well as on the attitude of the British towards green energy and the future of the entire energy economy?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U58	Thank you. You have certain advantages in front of me. I received a translation of Prime Minister David Cameron's speech four minutes before Question Time. Question Time is not the most productive and better time to get into the speech of a colleague. But the answer to your question is, yes, we were talking about an open market. An open market, including an open energy market, is in the interests of Estonia and the United Kingdom. In this sense, our views overlap completely. We are committed to the common market and we would like the barriers currently hindering the development of the open market to be reduced and removed more quickly. One part of the same internal market is the digital internal market, which would provide huge opportunities for development. Experts have said that if the digital internal market were to be developed, it could generate an additional 4% growth for the European Union. Once again, it must be said that the United Kingdom and Estonia share exactly the same views on these issues. Among other things, there is very good cooperation between Estonia and the United Kingdom to develop electronic public services.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U59	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U60	The next question is from my colleague, Mr Anvelt, to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U61	Thank you, Madam President. Good Minister of the Interior! Until the end of last year, a national strategy for drug prevention was implemented in Estonia. Instead of reducing the number of drug deaths expected, however, there is a drastic increase in the number of these cases. There were 38 deaths in 2001 and 160 deaths in 2012. We have seven times more deaths than the average in Europe. It's a sad number. Does the Ministry of the Interior, as one of the planners of this strategy and certainly one of the guardians of implementation, agree with one of the leaders of the relevant field of police in Postimees this week that the national strategy for drug prevention has essentially failed?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U62	Thank you very much for your question. You're referring to Mikk Salu's article "The Record-Time Drug Year," which appeared this week at Postman. I suggest everyone read it. In my opinion, this is a very constructive, adequate and well-presented approach to this complex and multifaceted area of drug addiction in society. The fight against drug addiction is certainly one area where Estonia has to work very hard. One strategy period ended in 2012. In diplomatic terms, there is considerable scope for cooperation between several agencies, because the problem of drug addiction is not solved by one ministry or agency, but by the authorities of several ministries. In the case of drug addiction, we are mainly talking about three lines of work or activity: drug prevention, reducing drug demand and supply, and treatment and rehabilitation, which are extremely important. They all fall within the remit of different ministries and agencies. It is precisely in the name of cooperation and the unification of all forces to address this issue at the highest political level, to set clear objectives and priorities, and to manage this cooperation, that last spring, under the leadership of the Ministry of the Interior, we set up a government committee on drug prevention. There is an enormous amount of work to be done. I am happy to quote Maris Jesse's words in this article. He says very simply: 'If the drug problem is already rooted in society, then even... 'The answer time is over. I will continue this by answering the next question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U63	Please, Mr Anvelt, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U64	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I never got an answer to my question whether you agree with the police saying that this national strategy has failed. But I ask you to be specific about police work: are you or are you not satisfied with police action to reduce the number of drug deaths?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U65	Thank you for your question. First, I will finish the answer to the previous question. Maris Jesse, director of the Institute for Health Development, said very good words: 'If the drug problem is already rooted in society, even to keep it stable, you have to work hard. (The experts estimate that there are around 10,000 persistent drug addicts in Estonia. A-M. V.) You have to run to stay still so things don't get any worse. " That is actually the case in Estonia today. As far as police action is concerned, I see considerable room for improvement here. Positively, a number of indicators have improved. The biggest problem with drug deaths in Estonia is that we stand out as one of the markets for very strong synthetic substances. Eighty percent of our drug deaths have caused fentanyl overdose. It's a very strong synthetic opiate and its overdose is very easy to come. However, drug users who are mostly frequent and long injected, and who are in large numbers in Estonia, receive overdoses. This problem goes back years. As has been said, there is clearly room for improvement in police action. It would be necessary to harmonise the activities of the DEA across Estonia in order to further detect this strong drug fentanyl. It is positive that almost half the number of doses seized has increased compared to 2011. In 2011, 32000 doses were confiscated, and last year 54000 doses were seized. But the situation is certainly not satisfactory, but we will continue this year. We want to focus attention, in particular, on the withdrawal of this very serious drug from the market.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U66	Please, Mr Anvelt, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U67	I'll try to get some answer to question three. The same white Chinese, or fentanyl, you're talking about, sells dealers on the street. Where else would this white death be available? Just as an observation, last year, small traders were caught twice as much as there were drug deaths. We have held a debate right here in this Chamber on the drastic reduction in the number of cases of street trafficking detected. The police have now apprehended three times less street dealers than in 2008. Do you think it has nothing to do with the increase in drug deaths?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U68	Thank you for your question. As I said, 80% of drug deaths, or four-fifths of them, are associated with fentanyl overdose. This is more often the case for drug addicts who have been injected for a long time. There are about 10,000 of these drug addicts in Estonia, and the opinions of experts differ here. I'm sure the police are also paying attention to street dealers. But we need to understand that Estonia stands out above all in terms of fentanyl consumption compared to other European countries. It is still serious crime, drug trafficking, where the main source of the problem is those who are transporting this substance to the Estonian state and who are trying to trade it here. In my opinion, we must start at the top of those on whom drug trafficking is primarily dependent, perhaps the strongest, so-called project leaders, who are carrying this whole thing. Surely this is not an easy task. It takes time and a lot of resources. We're increasing the resources of the DEA this year. There will be an increase in human resources, the number of technical resources and the amount of money spent on technical resources. Around EUR 350000 goes only for technical resources. In my opinion, the focus is on organised crime, but the law enforcement forces will certainly also be involved in the fight against street trafficking. But what I consider most important is that we can significantly reduce the availability of fentanyl in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U69	A question registered on the ground, Mr Viktor Vassilyev, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U70	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! As long as you fight the so-called project leaders, as you called them, they'll be circling or standing around a lot of school buildings with cars sold to schoolchildren of all kinds of crap. The school principals have the numbers of their cars written down and forwarded to the police. At least in one case I know the police have told me to let these cars be where they are, then at least there's a place to know, or they'll be hiding somewhere, and then start looking for them, so the police can get information, and so on. Is this the kind of risking the health and life of children from the top and starting with the project managers you mentioned?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U71	Thank you for your question. Dr. Vasilyev! If you have such information, you have probably already passed it on to the police and will, of course, continue to do so. The police are very serious about what's happening around schools. The position of the question is certainly extremely correct. I have the opportunity to stop a bit of drug prevention, which is extremely important and particularly concerns minors. I am referring here to a number of studies that tell us even that children start experimenting quite early in Estonia: 32% of 15- to 16-year-old schoolchildren have used illegal drugs during their lifetime. At the same time, the studies highlight the interesting fact that almost everyone who has tried drugs as a minor has been drunk and has tried smoking before. It starts with more accessible, legal substances and moves towards illegal drugs. There is a clear correlation between the number of test subjects and the number of addicts among minors. This means that it is extremely important to focus the sharpness of drug prevention on minors, but not only on them, but also on their parents, school teachers, the whole environment for young people to grow. This is what we are making a great deal of contributions to this year, with, of course, good partners from the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Civil Society. There is a large amount of financial resources for this. I think it is extremely right to raise this subject of minors, which you did on your question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U72	Thank you very much, Minister. I will stop dealing with this issue because Question Time is over. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for asking me questions. Dear Members of Government and Prime Minister, thank you very much for your reply. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U73	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will start the second working week session of the second plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. It is also desirable to pass on drafts and enquiries. Starts with Mr Rannar Vassilyev.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U74	Ladies and gentlemen, 11 Members of the Social Democratic Party Group want to report an inquiry to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. The inquiry concerns investments by Eesti Energia in Jordan and the United States. As we know, since 2010, Eesti Energia has been participating in a joint oil shale oil production project in Jordan, in which it has an important or strategic stake. Estonia's participation in this has decreased from 76% to 65%, but we find it particularly interesting that it also makes us a little concerned that Jordan's own participation in this project has decreased to almost non-existent, i.e. 5%. There's been some talk in the press about American investment. As we know, Eesti Energia acquired a certain number of oil shale reserves in Utah in 2011. The board members have called this investment risky. The current tests for the use and disposal of oil shale have not gone very far. As a result, we have a number of questions for the Minister concerning the change of participation in projects and changes in the objectives of these projects, but also possible risks and how it is planned to finance all of this, especially in the context that Eesti Energia is also planning considerable investments in Estonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U75	Thank you. Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U76	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Central Party Group, I am handing over the draft law amending the State Pension Insurance Act and the Social Benefits Act for Persons with Disabilities. The aim of the draft is to improve the livelihood of older people and people with disabilities and to restore free home delivery of pensions and social benefits for disabled people in the form that took place before 2009. In his day, there was a great deal of debate on this subject in this Chamber. The Centre Party and the People's League opposed the abolition of free return of pensions. There were very few people left with this option: some of the incapacity pensioners and people who were living in disincentived housing at the time. We can say that pensions also decreased as a result of this change, because those people who had no other choice ordered a paid home delivery, the price of which has constantly increased, of course, also increased from that year. In particular, ordering your pension home now costs 4.88 euros per month. The problem is, of course, that in many rural areas (this is more the question of rural areas) there are no ATMs, no payment machines and no post offices. To get the pension money, you have to go to a bigger centre, but we also know how public transport is in the country. Restoring a free return would cost a maximum of 2.4 million euros, but we think even less, because many have already chosen another way to receive a pension, whether they will let it be transferred to a foreign person's account or whether they have solved the problem in other ways. We are planning for this change to take effect from the next financial year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U77	Thank you. Please, my colleague Urmas Klaas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U78	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, At its meeting on 22 January, the Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu decided to submit a draft decision to the Riigikogu, which we propose to appoint Krista Aru as a member of the Estonian National Broadcasting Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U79	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U80	Madam President! On behalf of the Centre Party Group, I have an inquiry to report to Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas. The topic is that in spite of the low health status of Estonia, a new and fully modern health care facility was opened last year in Tallinn. It cost 4.6 million euros. Part of the loan was granted, but EUR 3.1 million was also received from the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF). Now that the clinic is ready and there are 150 beds, it has become apparent that it is not recommended to be financed. The contract with the Health Insurance Fund has been concluded to fund only 56 places in the first quarter of this year, but what happens next is not known at all. This means that these investments have run out and patients have been deceived. In this regard, we have the following questions. If 56 seats are financed in the first quarter of this year, when will the other 94 seats be financed? To what extent is the hospital to be financed after the first quarter of this year? If new hospitals are built with the approval of the national institutions, how can you understand that they will not be financed when they are ready? Last question: if you do not sign a contract with the Health Insurance Fund, how will the Government of the Republic make up for the expenses made? We are waiting for answers to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U81	Thank you. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U82	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I will report an inquiry to Home Secretary Ken-Marti Vaher. The issue of questioning is the number of people killed on the road. Despite such a sad subject, this question is extremely positive. I do not know what the reason for this is whether the declining population, the large number of people leaving Estonia or the expensive fuel, but we can say that the number of people killed on the road fell last year compared to 2011. For the second time in the last 50 years, this figure was less than 100. It's a very positive trend that needs an autopsy. We want to talk more about this with the Minister of the Interior on a nice Monday night in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U83	Please, Mr Velman!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U84	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of 11 members of the Estonian Central Party Group, I will report an inquiry to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts. The issue of questioning is the new trains of the Electric Railway. At the end of last year, the long-awaited passenger train Stadler FLIRT arrived in Estonia. 85% of the cost of electric trains is financed by the European Union Cohesion Fund. This is undoubtedly a very commendable undertaking, since new means of transport make it more convenient for a very large number of people to travel by train. However, a number of safety experts are concerned, as new trains can only be raised on the side, which means that in the event of an accident, a parallel track or track in parallel is needed to lift the train. In relation to the above, we would like an answer to the following questions. With the support of the European Union, there has been a great deal of investment in infrastructure in Estonia in recent years. Does the current rail infrastructure meet the needs of new trains? There are numerous level crossings in Estonia, which are on the same level as the road. How is it planned to ensure the safety of train running after the planned increase in train speed? We have two more questions to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U85	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted two draft laws and four inquiries. If the draft laws comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board decides to accept them within three working days. If inquiries comply with this law, I shall immediately forward them to the addressees. Now the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed them to lead committees: Riigikogu, Finance Committee. A draft of the Riigikogu's decision " Appointment of a member of the Supervisory Board for granting grants from gambling tax', submitted on 21 January, with the lead committee being the Committee on Monetary Affairs, and the Social Democratic Party Group. a draft law amending the Income Tax Act, initiated on 22 January, of which the commission is the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Board of the Riigikogu has registered the member of the Riigikogu Kaja Kreismani Isamaa and Res Publica Union as a member of the Group. The Board of the Riigikogu has changed the number of permanent members of the Riigikogu's committees in such a way that there are now eleven members in the Committee on the Environment instead of ten members and nine members in the Committee on Culture instead of the current ten members. The Management Board of the Riigikogu has amended its decision No 6 of 5 April 2011 and has divided the seats of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union in the permanent committees of the Riigikogu in such a way that the Group has three seats in the Committee on the Environment instead of two in the Committee on Culture and two seats in the Committee on Culture. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has confirmed the following changes in the composition of committees: member of the Riigikogu Andres Jalak has left the position of member of the Committee on Rural Affairs and has taken the position of member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, member of the Riigikogu Priit Sibul has left the position of member of the Committee on Culture and has taken the position of member of the Committee on Rural Affairs, and member of the Riigikogu Kaja Kreisman has taken the position of member of the Committee on the Environment. The Board of the Riigikogu has approved Erki Noole, member of the Riigikogu, as Chairman of the Environment Committee, and Karel Rüütel, member of the Riigikogu as Vice Chairman of the Environment Committee. I have forwarded enquiries from members of the Riigikogu to Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder and to Minister of the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 82 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, none 19. Dear Riigikogu, please pay attention! Let's clarify the agenda. At the debate on item 4 of today's agenda, the draft law amending the Media Services Act and related laws initiated by the Government of the Republic at first reading 336 will be presented by Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of the Environment, on behalf of the initiator, and Urmas Klaas, Chairman of the Committee on Culture, with a presentation by the Steering Committee. At the debate on item 8 of today's agenda, the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act and the State Assets Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, at first reading, Erki Nool, Chairman of the Environment Commission, will make a presentation on behalf of the lead committee.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U86	We will start working on the points on today's agenda. The first item on the agenda is the third reading of the draft law amending the Income Tax Act initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I will put to the final vote draft law amending the Income Tax Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 275. Please vote! 79 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U87	The next item is the third reading of the draft law on planning initiated by the Government of the Republic, on the expropriation of immovable property and on the amendment of the Nature Conservation Act. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. We can go to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am final voting on the draft law on planning initiated by the Government of the Republic, on the expropriation of immovable property and on the amendment of the Nature Conservation Act 247. Please vote! 76 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U88	The second reading of the draft law on ratification of amendments to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask Neeme the Great, member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U89	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, At the beginning of the second reading of the draft 323, I would like to remind you a little bit of what it is about the Rome Statute and the International Criminal Court, because it is possible that not all colleagues are fully aware of this. The Rome Statute is a fundamental document of the International Criminal Court in which the International Criminal Court was established. The Statute was opened for signature in 1998 and entered into force in 2002. The International Criminal Court is an international law enforcement organisation operating within the United Nations area and exercising its jurisdiction in addition to the jurisdiction of the Member States. Estonia has been a member of the International Criminal Court since 2002. The Criminal Court has 121 members. This is also called a club of small countries, because large countries, such as England, the USA, Russia, China and India, have not joined it and probably do not intend to do so. We are now discussing the ratification of the basic document, or amendments to the Rome Statute. So much more to remind you that the changes essentially contain three important aspects. The first aspect is, very simply, that all weapons prohibited in international conflicts would also be banned as a result of changes in domestic conflicts. The second amendment is the precise definition of the crime of aggression. The third aspect of the amendments is that the criminal court will be given wider rights than has been the case so far. If, until now, only the United Nations Security Council had the right to decide whether or not this is an aggression in the case of an aggression crime, that amendment could lead to the decision of the criminal court itself. This will give the International Criminal Court considerable additional rights. For the second reading, we prepared the draft on 14 January. Tanel Kalmet, Adviser to the Department of Penal Law and Procedure of the Ministry of Justice and Annely Kolk, Director-General of the Legal Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Senior Lawyer Mare Tropp also participated in the discussions. The preparation of the second reading was not very difficult for us, as there is generally an understanding that Estonia should ratify these amendments and adopt the draft law as 323. Mr Gräzin also put forward a supplementary proposal for the deadline. He proposed to the Commission that the law be supplemented by either a preamble or an annex, which would express the wish of the Estonian state to consider the energy blockade and cyber attack against the state as aggression. We had a longer debate on this proposal. The author of the proposal, the good colleague Gräzin, and the representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs had different views. Finally, the vote took place. The Commission did not support the proposal: 3 members were in favour of the proposal and 6 were against it. Let me briefly talk about the content of this debate. The Rome Statute says no reservations are made to the Statute. The representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs claimed that Igori Gräzin's proposal was a reservation. The author of the proposal argued that this is not a reservation, as it does not reduce Estonia's obligations within the framework of the statute, but rather increases it. But the representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs maintained their position and said that, whether it is an increase or a reduction, it is in any case a reservation. Secondly, the author argued that the inclusion of such a text would not undermine the ratification of these amendments, but would inform the international arena that energy security and cyber security are important to Estonia. It would simply be the first time such concepts have been brought to the arena of international law. The objections were as follows: The concept of an aggression crime is a very sensitive subject at all. It has taken 12 years of diplomatic activity to fix this concept. Since large and small countries can regard what this aggression really is differently anyway, it is already very valuable to reach such an agreement alone. Estonia should not start writing its own annexes, where we also consider cyberattack or energy blockade as aggression. After all, a third country may come and say something, a fourth country may also come and say something else, and a long-term process may be damaged. The official position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is that reservations to the Statute are not permitted and calling into question the concept of aggression could undermine an agreement which has taken 12 years to achieve. This is the summary of this debate. But Mr Gräzin had made such a proposal and it went to the vote. As I said, the Commission did not support this proposal (3 in favour and 6 against). Due to § 115 of the Riigikogu Law on Rules of Procedure, which allows the draft law on the foreign contract to be discussed at two readings, the Commission decided to consensually refer the draft to the second reading of the Riigikogu plenary session. On 23 January 2008, i.e. today, and to propose to the plenary that the draft be adopted as a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U90	Thank you very much, Mr Neeme Suur. Question from my colleague, Väino Linde.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U91	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! I hope that we can also vote on Mr Gräzin's proposal here. But refresh my memory and tell me if countries that are always ready to fight for peace and their rights everywhere, such as the United States, the Russian Federation and China, have joined the International Criminal Court.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U92	Thank you for your question. I can answer that I'm not. Large countries are not members of the International Criminal Court. The International Criminal Court does not, in fact, have its executive organisation as such; it can only operate through its Member States and their executive agencies. In this sense, it is still a justice organization that works quite effectively. For example, 161 war criminals were finally convicted after the conflict in Yugoslavia in the same International Criminal Court. True, it took more than ten years, but now they're all serving a sentence.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U93	Please, my colleague Mart Nutt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U94	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Does the Commission have any data on how many of the 121 countries that have joined the Rome Statute have already ratified this amendment? Does the Commission have data on some countries that do not intend to ratify it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U95	Please, colleague Valdo Randpere!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U96	Thank you. Estonia would be a third country to ratify it. I mean, the ratification process is in its early stages. In order for these amendments to enter into force, at least 30 countries' signatures would be required. The amendments cannot enter into force until 2017. But as one of the small countries of Estonia among the members of the Rome Statute, it is certainly interested that these changes will enter into force as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U97	Thank you. A good waitress and a colleague from the Committee on Legal Affairs! When I listened to you, I had the impression that Igor Gräzin's proposal was rejected only for formal reasons. I'll just check in to refresh my memory. I remembered that we were quite essentially discussing, for example, the concept of cybercrime in Igor's supplementary proposal, and we were not so much in agreement or positive about this definition at all. Am I right, if I remember that, or were we really a bunch of formalists and we simply rejected the perfect addition proposal for formal reasons?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U98	Thanks for reminding me. You're really right. We had a debate on how to deal with cyber crime in general, where there is a cyber criminal, where this crime is committed and what the impact of the cyber crime is. We discussed whether the mass attack to block information portals or bank websites was aggression or whether hacking into the air traffic control centre was aggression. The discussion was that if hacking goes through a server located on the territory of a country, whether or not that country is involved in this aggression. It is clear that there are many ambiguities here. The cybercrime as an act of aggression has not been dealt with as such in Estonia's own laws. Mr Gräzin did not, in fact, ask for us to break the definition of cybercrime or to have written it; rather, he sought to bring it into an international judicial area. At the same time, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, for example, fully supported the discussion on the interpretation of cybercrime as an act of aggression. We should get on with this discussion. There has also been talk about this in the international arena. However, it was said that, in the light of the current approach and ratification of the amendments to the Rome Statute, it would not be good if we were to bring further aspects to the ratification law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U99	Please, Mr Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U100	Good waitress! The cyber attack is a separate branch of law. Google shows that there are hundreds of books where this concept is defined. I really didn't mention it right now, but there's something I want to clarify. You mentioned it, but I wish it had been said with great certainty. A cyber attack is not just a "plug out of the wall." What seemed to us in 2007 as a cyber attack, undoubtedly in that sense it was, is only a small special case, the so-called DoS (denial-of-service). We understand today that this is a very complex matter. Was the difference clear in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U101	Yes, the Commission addressed various aspects of cyber-attacks and the various impacts that cyber-attacks could have on the nuclear power plant, an important communication operator, an air traffic control centre or just some kind of information portal. This difference was absolutely clear in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U102	Please, my colleague Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U103	Thank you very much. I'm going to ask you a little bit more about the International Criminal Court. Does the waitress think that Estonian foreign policy makers, as well as the Prime Minister in the world and at home, have the fact that Estonian Ambassador Tiina Intelmann is currently at the head of the International Criminal Court?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U104	Thank you. This fact was not addressed by the Commission. As regards the fact that Estonia has been one of the leading forces of the International Criminal Court, this fact rather adds to our responsibility.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U105	Please, Mr Mart Nutt, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U106	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Honourable waitress! If you look at Igor Gräzin's approach, I basically think that the cyber attack in international law should be linked to the concept of aggression, although, obviously, through this approach, we will not achieve this objective. But I'll come back to aggression in general. It can be said that perhaps indirectly, but the subject of aggression has been dealt with by a number of earlier acts of international law, such as the Briand-Kellogg Pact or the Montevideo Convention and perhaps some other regional acts. Did the Commission compare these approaches and did it highlight the parallels between them?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U107	Thank you. The Commission was fully aware that the act of aggression had been described earlier in some international documents, but the current approach is more precise, including a more precise definition of the role of countries in acts of aggression. One important aspect is that an aggression crime will also be considered if one country allows a third country to use its territory for an act of aggression against another country. This is one very important difference from before. So, yes, we were aware that these definitions had been in the past, we compared them, and we saw that the new approach was more accurate and clearer.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U108	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Neeme Suur. Do colleagues want to negotiate? Please, Mr Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U109	Ladies and gentlemen, The President of the Criminal Court is not only an Estonian, but also a lady. Honour and praise to him for this! The concept of aggression is old, it dates back to 1928. Mart Nutt mentioned the Briand-Kellogg Pact here. The first definition of aggression is from 1933, the second from 1934, which was then recognised by Estonia. In 1951, the UN Commission on International Law came into force and UN Resolution 33/14/1974 is currently in force. So there's nothing new here. There's only one new thing. Estonia has declared that we are a cyber state, a leading IT state. If we are a leading IT state and, moreover, we play such a responsible role in the International Criminal Court, then, frankly, we need not only praise for this, but we also have to take responsibility here. Responsibility means, among other things, that Estonia is the first in the IT world to raise questions that are important to the world as a whole. I'm saying cyber-attack is a question. We became acquainted with cyber attacks began in 2007, but since then cyber attacks have progressed. I'll draw attention to that. Valdo would certainly be more specific, for example, about a virus organised and inspired by the states, such as the so-called Stuxnet, which aimed at the disruption of electrical systems. The aim was noble, but the resources were extremely risky: the idea was to disrupt the power supply systems in Iran's uranium enrichment plants, which could have triggered a real military conflict as a countermeasure. These things happen over and over and over again, and the more they happen. The other thing is the energy blockade. I'm sure the older ones here will remember the energy blockade. That's a very bad thing. In 1990, Lasnamäe houses were 12 to 13 degrees warm, and old people and children died. We saw the same, say, threat of aggression in Ukraine between 2006 and 2009 and partly in 2008. This, too, is the reality of today's life. I think that Estonia could be among the first to raise the issue of energy blockade seriously on the international stage. Unfortunately, the position of the State Department cannot be accepted. They do not take into account that a reservation, or withdrawal, under the Vienna Convention, means that a State restricts the effects of an international act to itself. Estonia would extend the effects of the Act to itself. Secondly, I have with me here (also on the table in the Commission) the resolution of 1948, which makes genocide internationally punishable. In particular, reservations are also prohibited there, and that is why countries have added such things as undergrounds, which are not known to be covered by the Vienna Convention. The State Department didn't draw any attention to these things. By the way, I do not agree with the view that it is not in the interests of Estonia's foreign policy to secure global peace, friendship and cooperation between nations. I am in favour of peace. If I may, I'll talk about it for three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U110	Please, three minutes for peace!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U111	I would like to draw attention to two other aspects. Point 1 is that we defend ourselves to some extent with such a declaration. We are saying that we do not want a cyber attack against us, we do not want electricity to be turned off, or water will be flushed down one and a half meters in Narva. That's one side of it. But there's another side. We inform the world that no country uses Estonian technology networks and our cyber competence to attack someone else. I think we can peacefully declare that Estonia will never again be a threat to any country in the world. You can be sure that Estonia is a peaceful state and does not tolerate terrorist activities, including cyber-terrorist and energy-related terrorist activities, based on its territory. It's a difficult obligation. I hope the ambassadors will think about it. Colleagues, I hope you will vote in favour. I'm gonna take another chance to say what they rarely say about this remote control. I want to say thank you to Neeme the Great for the simple reason that I have never heard such an objective and balanced presentation of a complex problem as that which was. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U112	I would like to ask you to vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U113	Thank you very much, Mr Gräzin. No more calls, which means I'm going to finish the negotiations. There is one amendment to the draft law tabled by my colleague, Mr Gräzin, and this proposal has been rejected by the commission. Please, Mr Gräzin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U114	Please, it's my pleasure! Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on Amendment 1, tabled by my colleague Igor Gräzin, which has been rejected by the commission. Please vote! 16 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, 34 against and 4 abstentions. The proposal was not supported. And now, ladies and gentlemen, we can put this foreign agreement to the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I will vote on the final vote on the draft law on ratification of amendments to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 323. Please vote! 62 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U115	The first reading of the draft law amending the Media Services Act and related laws initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of the Environment of the Speaker's Board, as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U116	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! I am before you to defend this bill in place of the Minister of Culture. The Government of the Republic approved the draft law amending the Media Services Act and related laws at the beginning of December last year, 6 December. Now the bill is in the hands of the Riigikogu. I will explain why the draft was drawn up, I will present the objectives and key provisions of the draft, which will change the organisation of the media services sector in Estonia. The Ministry of Culture started preparing the draft before you a year ago. The starting points of the draft were discussed at the meeting of the Cabinet on 15 March last year. On the basis of the input from the Cabinet, the Ministry of Culture also developed the draft. For the purposes of the Media Services Act, media services are radio and television services and on-demand audiovisual media services. It has been the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture for a long time. The draft, which is before you today at first reading, will begin to modernise and modernise this system. One of the main objectives of the draft is to create a new model of regulation in the field of media services that takes account of developments in the Estonian media services market and is in line with the principles of the European Union and the Council of Europe. Currently, Estonia is the only country in the European Union where media services are not organised by an independent, independent authority. All these tasks have so far been in the hands of the Ministry of Culture. The current model of regulation developed in Estonia during the analogue era of broadcasting. In the digital age, of course, new television channels have grown, there have been additional on-demand audiovisual media services, which are subject to requirements agreed in the European Union. An example is the protection of minors in new media services. Of course, compliance with these requirements must be ensured by the State. Changes in regulation in the sector are also due to the development of media services themselves. We see the intertwining of several forms of media services. While there were previously clearly distinct boundaries between content services on television, on the Internet or in a new telecommunications tool, these borders are now dissipating. New services are entering the market, which, of course, create new opportunities for people to participate in the information society. This is why many countries have started to treat this area as one whole, where media services and telecommunications content services offered on television and on the Internet are increasingly interwoven into a single set of information society services. As a consequence, the regulatory model of the sector will also be restructured, bringing its tasks together in the hands of a single independent body. One good example here is the UK single regulator Ofcom, or Office of Communication, which covers media content and also telecommunications services. Estonia will go this way according to the draft submitted to you. When the bill becomes a law, we will have a model in which the functions of the media service's content side and the telecom regulator will be concentrated in the hands of one independent body, the Technical Supervisory Authority under the responsibility of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. In Estonia, it is clearly not appropriate to create a completely new institution for the organisation of media services, but all these tasks can be concentrated in the hands of the Technical Surveillance Authority. The Technical Surveillance Authority is currently recognised at European Union level as an independent separate regulatory authority in the field of telecommunications. According to the new model, the organisation of the field is still largely carried out in cooperation between the Technical Surveillance Authority and the Ministry of Culture, as the development of media services policy and the development of the necessary drafts to create favourable conditions for the development of the field remains the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture. While the Ministry of Culture currently operates an advisory committee of experts on the assessment of applications for authorisation, the new model establishes such a committee at the Technical Surveillance Authority. It includes a representative of the Ministry of Culture and other media professionals. Competitions for radio and free access television licences will also be organised in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture and the Technical Surveillance Authority. The call for competition shall be published in accordance with the draft by the Minister of Culture, who shall determine the terms of the call. However, it is up to the Technical Surveillance Authority to assess the applications submitted to the competition and decide whether or not to grant an authorisation. The condition-access television service, satellite television service and temporary licence are issued by the Technical Surveillance Authority on the basis of the Act, in coordination with the Ministry of Culture in advance. Some of the changes are due to the desire to clarify the wording of the key legislation in the field, the provisions transposed by the European Union's Audiovisual Media Services Directive. Both Estonia and several other Member States have been advised to do so by the European Commission. Estonia transposed the aforementioned directive of the European Union into its law two years ago. The European Commission has later asked more specific questions about the transposition of the directive not only to Estonia, but, as I said, to all the Member States. For example, the definition of a commercial notification is partly supplemented by a reference to self-esteem. This is done in section 1 (9) of the draft. The law also introduces a ban on the transmission of a disguised commercial notification (Article 1 (10) of the draft). The clarification of some provisions will provide better grounds for ensuring compliance with the requirements of the European Union Directive, for example by obtaining the right to request information from communications undertakings on the jurisdiction of the audiovisual media services they provide. Paragraph 1 (16) and (17) of the draft law concern this. There have been cases in Estonia where the location of the television channel is not known in the exchange of information with a communication company providing some foreign television channels in its service, nor does the television channel even have a licence from any country. This has led to the need to supplement the law and to establish a legal basis for the Technical Surveillance Authority to obtain this information from the liaison company. In implementing this requirement, we have also taken into account the willingness of the communication operators to have more time to prepare for it. Thus, this requirement will apply later than the amendment as a whole, namely from 1 January 2014. The draft also specifies measures to protect minors in the case of on-demand audiovisual media services. The model list presents some technical options such as personal identification numbers, filtering software, etc. These are listed in section 1 (8) of the draft. The draft will make the implementation of a number of requirements more flexible, for example by giving the possibility to apply for an exemption not only to television service providers authorised to transmit music programmes but also to those authorised to broadcast sports, film or other thematic programmes. It is also possible to apply the news broadcast requirement more flexibly for radio channels with national coverage when it comes to musical radio. The requirements for news programmes, own productions and the share of European production in television channels with the main content of advertising, self-promotion or teleshopping can also be applied flexibly. The draft also organises the reporting of compliance data to the supervisory authority. The current law provides data on the volume of news programmes, the demand for self-production and the proportion of European production and the requirement for the proportion of audiovisual works created by independent producers at different times. In the future, all of these data will have to be provided by 15 February, including data on how access to media services has been improved for people with visual and auditory disabilities. It is important that these data should be provided every year, with an interval of two years earlier. According to the Ministry of Culture, more frequent reporting of data should help media service providers to continuously improve the accessibility of their services to people with disabilities. The volume of these services should increase gradually in this way. In the drafting and coordination of the draft, one of the issues that led to the discussion was better enforcement of the law and possible sanctions when some of the requirements have not been repeatedly met. As a result of the consultations, this standard became such that the draft measures taken in the monitoring exercise are based on the implementation of the enforcement and enforcement procedures laid down in the law, with a maximum penalty of EUR 15000 in the draft and up to EUR 30000 in the event of repeated non-compliance with the precept. This is set out in § 1 (18) of the draft. We note that these rates are applied to the non-compliance of one of the central requirements of the European Union's audiovisual policy, the proportion of European production. Making this regulation stricter and more effective was due to the fact that for several years in a row some television stations have not met the requirement of a share of European production, despite repeated promises and precepts. However, the Estonian state must be able to ensure that media service providers with their licence comply with the requirements of the European Union Audiovisual Media Services Directive. I think it is appropriate to point out that this specific provision is further explained by the explanatory memorandum, which shows that the increase in the level of coercive money takes account of cases of repeated infringement of the requirement of the share of European production. No one is going to apply the high rate of forced payment in the event of a primary infringement. In these cases, the letter of formal notice and the warning shall be limited to the letter of formal notice or the precept shall be made. If the prescribed period is not complied with, it will be possible to impose a penalty payment. In addition to the Media Services Act, the draft amends the Estonian Public Broadcasting Act, the General Part of the Code of Economic Activities, the Advertising Act and the Government of the Republic Act. These changes are mostly related to the transfer of supervisory tasks from the Ministry of Culture to the Technical Surveillance Authority. The Act of the Government of the Republic supplements the list of functions of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications in the area of government, adds the state organisation of media services and national supervision of the provision of media services. Under the Supplementary Act, the Statute of the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Technical Surveillance Authority is amended. The Act enters into force on 1 July 2013. The new model of regulation of all media services will work in the second half of this year if the law is adopted. I wish the Riigikogu every success in processing this important draft! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U117	Thank you very much, Madam Minister for the Environment. Please, a question from my colleague, Priit Onion.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U118	Thank you. Good waitress! We in the Committee on Culture had a debate on points 16, 17 and 18, to which you referred in your report. I have a question about your personal position, because you probably have not been closely involved in the procedure for this draft. When we're talking about receiving data from a foreign company, don't you think ten days is too short for a communications company? I think it might be too short. The second question is whether the fine of EUR 30000 in the event of repeated non-compliance with the injunction is not too high. In that case, it is no longer dependent on the basis of the precept or on the cause of the initial infringement, but simply if the precept is repeatedly not complied with, the fine shall be EUR 30000.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U119	Thank you. If you start from behind, you have to say that the explanatory memorandum explains where this rate is applied. I am convinced that this is a thoroughly considered proposal that has been included in the draft. With regard to the deadline for compliance with the precept, the coordination table attached to the draft also states the reasons for which it was left unchanged, as stated in the draft. That time is ten days, and I consider it reasonable. This was also the government's common position.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U120	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U121	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Minister of the Environment in charge of the Minister of Culture! My question concerns today's subject. Our media are third in terms of freedom of opinion, and there have been all kinds of praises to the media. How do you think the media is responsible for what they say? Sometimes it seems that our media doesn't have a full sense of responsibility. How can people defend themselves?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U122	This question does not directly concern the draft, but the media are likely to be, as is the case with almost all other areas, examples can always be found on one side and on the other. In general, the Estonian media is good. I believe that the people who are active in the Estonian media sphere understand that freedom of expression includes, among other things, a significant amount of responsibility for the words that are spoken out. I think there is nothing wrong with the Estonian media as a whole, but as I said, there are very different examples in every area of life.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U123	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a huge request: we will stick to the debate on the draft law. Media issues are very important, but we could discuss them in another place. Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U124	Thank you. Good minister! I want to get a little clarification. The Technical Surveillance Authority is under the authority of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications. You said that it would continue to be the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture to issue licences for the provision of media services. The question arises, why divide these tasks between the two ministries, perhaps it would be better to take everything under the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U125	Thank you. The granting of licences will be two-tiered in the future. As regards competitions and the conditions for licences, i.e. the content side, this is still the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture, but control and, let us say, the implementing party will move forward to the Technical Surveillance Authority. It makes sense for the content of media services to remain in the Ministry of Culture through the setting of conditions. The fact that the control side is moving to the Technical Surveillance Authority is equally practical. I think that is a good solution, which is proposed in the draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U126	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister for the Environment. I invite the Chair of the Committee on Culture, Urmas Klaas.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U127	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Dear Minister, The Committee on Culture discussed the draft at its two meetings on 15 and 21 January. A peak saturated power output greater than 20 W (47 dBm) at any frequency exceeding 2,7 GHz up to and including 3,7 GHz; On 15 January, we had asked for explanations and general principles of the Media Services Act to be presented by the Minister of Culture Rein Lang and Peeter Sookruus, Head of the Media Department of the Ministry of Culture. At the second sitting, where this draft law was under discussion, we had asked the Commission for representatives of interest groups. Priit Leito, representative of the Estonian Broadcasting Association, Indrek Ild, Paul-Kristjan Lilje and Keilin Nõmmela, representatives of the Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Association, Margus Allikmaa, Chairman of the Board of Estonian Public Broadcasting, and Peeter Sookruus, Head of the Media Department of the Ministry of Culture. In order not to forget, at the meeting on 15 January, the Commission decided to put the draft Media Services Act on the plenary agenda on 23 January, to propose that the first reading be closed and that ten working days, i.e. 6 February, be set by the deadline for tabling amendments. a. We made all three decisions in a consensual manner. On 21 January, representatives of stakeholders were at the table, as has been said. The Minister outlined the most important issues in his presentation. My colleague, Priit Sibul, also drew attention to the issues raised by interest groups. The concerns of stakeholders could be summarised by the term'sun money'. The Estonian Broadcasting Association, the Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Association and Estonian Public Broadcasting all consider it very reasonable and welcome that this draft law has been developed and the organisation of media services goes in the direction that the Ministry of Culture is responsible for media policy, but supervision is within the competence of the Technical Surveillance Authority, as is European in every way. Estonia is indeed the last to change this system. However, according to stakeholders, the problem is that the amount of forced money that will be imposed if the programmes produced in the European Union are not planned in the TV programme is too large. One such television channel, which has problems with it in Estonia, is TV6, which does not meet the requirements for the transmission of programmes and own productions produced in the European Union under European Union directives. The high enforcement rate was considered to be non-friendly for the company. The second issue raised by the Association for Information Technology and Telecommunications is the ten-day deadline, when an independent regulator requires information on media services not from the media service provider, not from the television channel, but from the communications undertaking, who mediates this programme. A communications undertaking may not be able to transmit such data within 10 days if the media service provider has not provided it with the information as quickly as possible or not. For example, a holiday period was mentioned when there might be problems, as only one person in Starman deals with such queries. It is not considered reasonable to duplicate this job in a small company as there would be an excessive administrative burden on the communications service provider. Similarly, it was considered unreasonable to impose a penalty if the 10-day deadline had not been met. The Ministry of Culture naturally had its own answers and they are also reflected in the draft explanatory memorandum. The Committee on Culture considered it important to continue the discussion between first and second readings, to wait for amendments as well, and to try to find a balance between the government's proposal and the concerns of the Estonian Broadcasting Union and the Estonian Information Technology and Telecommunications Union. We will definitely continue to work on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U128	Thank you very much, my colleague Urmas Klaas! Please ask a question, Mr Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! Although my question does not specifically concern the sections of this bill, it certainly concerns what is mentioned in the explanatory memorandum. I am interested in advertising on national broadcasting, which is currently only allowed under the special authorisation of the Council. What is your personal position and what is the Commission's position on advertising in national broadcasting? Was this discussed in the Commission?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U130	Thank you! I have a personal position. When asked, I have also published it on several occasions through the media. However, we did not discuss it in the Commission, such a theme setting did not arise within the framework of the draft. That is why I, if you will allow me, will remain correct and will not shed any light on this issue. However, I will tell you (you are aware of this because you were an alternate in the Committee on Culture and the subject of national broadcasting were raised there as well) that, when we elected a new member of the Broadcasting Council, it was said that the Committee on Culture had also received proposals on the volume of advertising to be broadcast in national broadcasting and many other proposals for organising the work of national broadcasting. The Committee on Culture will certainly come back to these proposals. We have sent a letter to the Broadcasting Council on some issues so that the Broadcasting Council, of which you are also a member, can convey its position to us. In the near future, we in the Committee on Culture will certainly discuss these issues and consider in this key whether a legislative amendment is needed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U131	No further questions. Once again, thank you, my colleague Urmas Klaas! Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of 336 amendments by 5.15 p.m. on 6 February 2013. First reading of Bill 336 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U132	The next item is the first reading of the draft law amending the Act on the Implementation of the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like Mr Helir-Valdor Seeder, Minister of Agriculture, to serve as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U133	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Ministry of Agriculture has prepared a draft law amending the law implementing the common agricultural policy of the European Union. This amendment of the law was due to the possibility of granting transitional support to farmers from the state budget in 2013. According to the Treaty of Accession to the European Union, the possibility of paying additional direct payments from the Estonian state budget to farmers was possible from the date of accession in 2004 until 2012. The continuation of this situation would have meant that a large proportion of farmers would have stopped paying these payments from 2013. In order to avoid a sudden and significant decrease in payments in 2013 and to ensure a smoother transition to the new direct payment system in the next funding period, in 2014 to 2020, the co-decision process was decided, on a proposal from the European Parliament, to complement the direct payments regulation of the Parliament and of the Council by allowing for the payment of transitional support in 2013 in the new Member States where additional direct payments were granted in previous years. In this way, Estonia, together with the other countries that joined in 2004, received the opportunity to pay transitional support under the new name for the same sectors and on the same basis as in previous years for additional direct payments. Therefore, the transitional support granted in 2013 is subject to all the provisions on additional direct payments for 2012 and does not entail any substantive changes in the eligibility, processing or payment requirements. As has already been said, the Act amending the Law implementing the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union is necessary, in particular, in order to align the legislation of Estonia and the European Union with regard to the implementation of transitional payments in 2013. In view of the fact that Council Regulation (EC) No 73/2009 establishing common rules for direct support schemes for farmers under the common agricultural policy did not repeal the provisions on additional direct payments, but was supplemented by the regulation on transitional support, we have also included in the draft legislation the basis for granting transitional support to farmers in order to implement transitional support this year. Please support the draft submitted to the members of the Riigikogu! Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U134	Thank you very much, Minister. You have questions. Starts with colleague Priit onion.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U135	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! In 2013, when we received the right to grant additional direct payments from the state budget, but in 2014, the so-called direct payment will no longer be available, what is the Ministry's plan, which or which area of agriculture should be supported by a possible EUR 20 million next year?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U136	Thank you for your question. This is a very complicated situation. It is difficult and almost impossible to answer this question, because today we do not know how the new budget period for the European Union will start in 2014. At the moment, it seems that the European Commission is preparing the so-called "transition year," which means that the new period will not be fully operational in terms of direct payments, either, and in the way initially envisaged. What this transition period contains, we cannot say at the moment. The Commission has not provided any explanatory information on this matter and has not submitted any legislation. This in short means that when negotiations on the next state budget start, the Ministry of Agriculture will definitely plan transitional support or possible direct payments in the same order (20 million euros). This is so that we do not get a response from Europe that the transitional year will come and, for example, on the same basis as in 2013, but we do not have any money in the state budget. Although we do not have any legal clarity and basis, we will definitely start planning transitional support to 2014 at the beginning of the state budget procedure. It will come to light when the relevant decisions have been taken by the European Commission and the Council of Agriculture Ministers. However, if your question looked further into the future, it must be said that, in principle, the money we are now paying for direct payments should remain in the agricultural sector, just as it has been in all previous years. We have repeatedly said that there is a need for this and there are various ways to do so. This money can be used, for example, for land improvement, which is a very important thing in the agricultural sector. We have spent less on maintaining agricultural land than we should. Very many lands are too wet. This was also demonstrated in the last year when harvests could not be harvested because of excessive humidity in many regions. Land is the main production tool in agriculture. This is certainly one of our priorities. Another possibility may be greater co-financing of certain measures in the rural development plan, which we have done at a minimum during this period, but more can be done than we have done so far. Domestic direct payments are the third area that we need to negotiate with the European Commission. Of course, breeding premiums are very necessary and progressive. So we see at least three or four priorities that really need additional funding. That's where we want the money.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U137	Please, colleague Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U138	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, We really do not know when the new financial period will open and whether or not such transitional support will have to be used next year. However, in our agriculture, diesel is used, with excise duties of five times the minimum rate of the European Union, leading to an exit from the sector of about EUR 10 million per year. Do you intend to present a proposal to the Minister of Finance to review the amount of this excise duty next year or beyond?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U139	Thank you for your question. The subject of specialized fuel has been discussed for a very long time and much. This has also been done repeatedly in this Chamber of the Riigikogu. Yes, I have proposed that the Minister for Finance consider specially labelled fuel, which in fact contains quite a number of proposals. However, as far as excise duty is concerned, we have proposed that an equalisation of excise duty on specially labelled fuel should be considered across the European Union in order to put farmers on an equal footing. Whether this is zero excise, the minimum fixed, or some third size, is not the first priority. It is essential that all farmers in the countries of the European Union are in a comparable situation. That's what we want. What solution this problem will find in the future, I cannot say today. But we have proposed this.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U140	Please, Mr Mälberg!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U141	Thank you. Dear Minister, It is extremely regrettable that we are in a situation where we are discussing such a bill and Estonian producers are still not subject to equal conditions of competition, as we agreed upon when we joined the European Union. But, good Minister, can you clearly say from this remote control that Estonia is on its side, from farmers to the Government of the Republic and the Riigikogu, doing everything in its power to ensure that our farmers are placed in a level playing field in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U142	Thank you. I must correct you now, because there was one very serious and fundamental error in your question. You spoke of equal terms agreed upon at the time of accession. When we joined, we agreed on the situation that we now have, perhaps unequal conditions. We started at 25%, so we agreed on a merger agreement. If you claim that we agreed on a level playing field in the accession agreement, then I must say that I am hearing such an agreement for the first time. With regard to whether politicians, officials, the government or whoever has done everything they can, I think that everyone has contributed to the maximum. Businesses through their umbrella organisations have worked well with Latvian and Lithuanian colleagues. The Government of the Republic as a whole, I dare say, has acted to obtain a more level playing field in the next budget period. This does not mean more subsidies. Once again, I stress that Estonia's position is not that we need to receive more direct aid; Estonia's position is that we want to have more equal conditions of competition. If this can be done, for example, by reducing direct payments in the European Union at all, we would in any case prefer it to increase direct payments. But the reality is that a significant reduction in subsidies from several old Member States is simply not achievable and therefore a redistribution must be accepted. I dare say that politicians have played their part here with their statement. I think that the Estonian public, politicians and farmers have done the maximum and the end result will be better than what the European Commission initially proposed to Estonia. These efforts have certainly produced some fruitage.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U143	Please, Mr Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U144	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Farmers in Estonia have been looking forward to this decision and welcome the continuation of transitional support and additional direct payments in 2013. You also mentioned the basis on which we operate. The countries which joined the European Union in 2004 can pay these grants, but they cannot be paid by the following entrants, namely Bulgaria and Romania, to whom the Decision does not apply. Estonia currently has a draft decision on the table. Do you know the state of other countries? Will they continue to pay from their own national resources? Can you comment on the situation in the other countries that joined in 2004?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U145	Thank you. The countries that were granted such a right are eight in the European Union. I don't know about everyone right now. I know that Estonia will apply this right to the maximum extent allowed, Latvia too. Lithuania is also likely to apply it to the maximum extent, but I am not quite sure about that. The Czech Republic, as far as I know, does not apply this right to the maximum extent allowed, because they simply do not have money. I don't have any information about the rest of them right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U146	Please, Mr Aivar Kokk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U147	Good manager and good minister! The principle of the draft law is to support farmers and not to impair their competitiveness. Do you think this EUR 24.3 million grant is enough, or should this year's state budget have been a little higher?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U148	Thank you. The bigger, the more proud. But, in fact, we cannot plan a larger amount, because the European Commission has set very clear rules on the extent to which we can pay these subsidies. What is planned for the budget is a maximum. No more could have been planned under existing legislation. Is that enough? In this sense, it is not enough that we do not guarantee the same levels of support as the old Member States. We are not happy that we can pay these national direct payments or transitional support, I will say it now. We are not very happy with this right. Personally, I do not consider it fundamentally right that, under the common agricultural policy, we are levelling out unequal direct payments at the expense of our national budgetary resources without being among the wealthiest countries in the European Union. This money should come from the common budget of the European Union within the framework of the common agricultural policy. As I said in answering the previous questions, work has been done to ensure that in the future we reach a situation where more equal direct payments come from the common budget of the European Union, rather than paying additional direct payments from the Estonian state budget. I will say once again to explain that we are not happy about this, but we understand very well that farmers need to be supported, because otherwise the situation and the conditions of competition would be even more unequal. This is, in a way, a forced move that we have understood. We'll do it to the maximum extent allowed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U149	Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U150	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. I'm asking you for a prognosis for 2014. Do you think that farmers' direct payments will be reduced or will we be able to keep them at the same level? If the country cannot pay more, it seems to me that in 2014 Estonian farmers will receive less support. Or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U151	No, you are not mistaken, but there is no answer to that question today. As I said, the new financial perspective and legislation will probably be agreed at the Council in February. I hope so. There are prerequisites for a political agreement to take place. However, this must be followed by a number of other actions and agreements in the European Parliament, at Council level and in the Commission. Not all the necessary legislation can be adopted in order to implement a reasonably new period from 1 January in the Member States. There may be a transitional year, on which I cannot tell you anything today and for which no legislation has been published. If we now assume and speculate on the level of direct payments for 2013 and we are not granted any additional national transitional support, or are not provided for in the state budget, the direct payments of a large proportion of farmers will be reduced. It's going to happen 'if', but we don't know that exactly. If the transition year means that at the beginning of the new period, direct payments will also grow from the European Union budget and increase significantly, then there will be no reduction. Nor will they decrease if we are given a one-off right to grant transitional support again, and we will find money for this in the state budget. These are all months and but to which there is no answer today.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U152	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I call Kalev Eagle, member of the Rural Affairs Committee, as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U153	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Rural Commission discussed the draft law amending the Act on the implementation of the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 348 at its meeting on 15 and 22 January. The first time a Commission co-rapporteur was appointed and the second time the draft was discussed in substance. When discussing the substance of the draft, the initiator of the draft was represented by the Minister of Agriculture, the Head of the Department of Agricultural Market Management Mai Talvik and the Legal Adviser Pille Eller. The Commission supported the initiator's plan to legitimise the transitional support by 2013 and thereby prevent the deterioration of the economic situation and the loss of competitiveness of farmers this year. The Commission's discussion focused mainly on two issues. Firstly, there was a discussion on how the premium entitlement for the supplementary direct payment will become the payment entitlement for the transitional payment. The deadline for the entry into force of the draft was also discussed. As the adoption of the applications for transitional support for the PRIA will start already on 2 March and the draft and the resulting two implementing acts will be rapid, the rural committee has taken the following decisions: It was decided to send draft law amending the Act on the Implementation of the Common Agricultural Policy of the European Union initiated by the Government of the Republic to the Riigikogu for the first reading today, 23 January, to propose that the first reading be completed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 14 January. All decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U154	Good waitress! There's a question for you. Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U155	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good colleague, good waitress Kalev! What kind of impression did you have? If the same situation continues next year, will the Estonian state budget be prepared to provide the same transitional support as this year?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U156	Thank you for your question. The draft deals with the transitional support foreseen for the following year. The next financial period, i.e. 2014, will not be covered by this draft. It is therefore inappropriate to comment on this issue in the context of the debate on this draft.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U157	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I open negotiations and ask Kalvi Tõud, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U158	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The 348 bill is a very good bill at this point in time, here and now. The whole sector is waiting for this bill. The Social Democratic Party would, of course, like us to have direct payments, which are at the European average level, so that we do not have to pay extra farmers from our state budget to create a more level playing field. That's what the minister was talking about. If you look at this bill alone, there would have been no reason to come here, because the bill is good and well drafted. But let's take a broader look at this. As the Minister said, our neighbours Latvia and Lithuania contribute to transitional support at the maximum rate allowed by the European Union regulation. When we look at the Estonian state budget, we see that there are indeed 24.3 million euros in it. It cannot be considered a great victory for work; it cannot be regarded as a great achievement; it is elementary. It is essential that such money is included in the budget and that our farmers have a slightly more level playing field. But our country and government could do more. Here is an example of what would make it easier for our farmers to compete equally on the European market. I'm talking about excise duty on fuel for farmers. If the European minimum rate is EUR 21 per 1000 litres, we will have EUR 112 per 1000 litres since 2010, as I recall. It is at the top of the European Union's countries. At the same time, we know that our level of direct payments, together with additional direct payments, will remain among the last three. So we have what direction to develop. The Social Democratic Party is undoubtedly ready to support this draft at both second and third readings. We do not see any major problems in making amendments to the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U159	Thank you. Please ask for the speech chair of the Riigikogu, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, Ester Tuiksoo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U160	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Honourable ministers! In the first half of last year, farmers were very concerned. In addition to the wish to increase direct payments to at least 90% of the average level of direct payments in the European Union during the new financial period, the situation had developed where, according to the Accession Agreement, it was not possible to pay additional payments from the Estonian state budget in 2013. The summer came with a delightful decision and was granted permission. As the Minister in the Committee on Rural Affairs said, with the exception of Slovenia and Malta, all the other eight countries that joined in 2004, including Estonia, take advantage of this possibility. This is certainly EUR 24.3 million in transitional support for our farmers. As has been said here, we do not yet know the time for the opening of the new financial period today. Perhaps next year's opportunity to add money from its own state budget will also have to be added. For once, I had the impression that the Minister for Agriculture was ready to do so and that he would plan such sums for next year's budget when the preparatory period for the budget began. I don't know if the Minister of Finance came to the hall or what happened, but somehow that comment later became more uncertain. In general, Estonia seems to be happier. The Prime Minister also told us, coming from the Council, that we have been offered per hectare aid, which is not 58.3%, but 75% of the average level of the European Union. Of course, there are many question marks relating to the new financial period. In this sense, it is too early to comment. There is nothing certain about how to create a level playing field for our farmers in the European Union during the new financing period. Our concern still remains in the near future that the amounts paid to our farmers will always be lower than those paid to farmers in other Member States. With regard to the payment of transitional support this year, I would also like to mention the new rural development plan that is being prepared. This document should take serious account of the proposals made by agricultural organisations, in particular the Estonian Chamber of Agriculture and Trade, regarding the distribution of investment grants. Each support should focus on the target group. The aim of the new period investment policy should be to develop rural entrepreneurship and thus to secure jobs in rural areas, so support for investment should be based on the long-term competitiveness of agricultural holdings, investment capacity and objective economic indicators. Milk quotas are disappearing in the European Union, which makes our milk producers compete in the free market with farmers from well-capitalised countries. Restrictions on investment support for the rural development plan must take into account the existing production potential of farms. In the case of support for the development of small farms, the conditions of the measure should be clearly understood as being business support, not social support. I certainly congratulate our agricultural organisations on operating in an exceptional situation such as the one in which the entitlement to transitional support was achieved. I'm sure the government had a role to play here. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U161	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U162	For example, all attractive actions such as sending an old tractor to Brussels, collecting signatures, etc. were important. However, the statement made by the Riigikogu in order to reconcile agricultural subsidies more quickly and the role of the Ministry of Agriculture in this cannot be underestimated. We have been active towards Europe in negotiating more equal conditions of competition, yet our excise duty on diesel used in agriculture is five times higher than the minimum allowed in the European Union. It would make sense to reduce the excise duty on agricultural diesel. This would also be a serious opportunity for the Estonian state to equalise the situation of our farmers with the situation of farmers from other countries. As has been said here, this will take the circa ten million euros out of the sector a year. In his reply, the Minister suggested that this excise duty should be equalized throughout the European Union. Excise rates vary between countries, and in most countries they are certainly lower than in Estonia. In this sense, Estonia still has the opportunity to demonstrate its goodwill in the agricultural sector. We expect the government to deal effectively with opening up the new financial period, achieving the conditions acceptable to Estonian farmers and reducing the excise duty on diesel. The Centre Party supports this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U163	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading of draft 348 should be terminated. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 14:00 on 28 January 2013. The first reading is closed and the fifth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U164	Let's move on to item six. The first reading of the draft Act on the Denunciation of the Convention establishing an International Customs Tariffs Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi, speech chair of the Riigikogu, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U165	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Riigikogu! The purpose of this draft is to organise the Estonian legal system and to terminate our membership of the Convention establishing the Union establishing customs tariffs. Estonia acceded to this convention in 1923. New international agreements in the area of customs tariffs are currently in force and the new legislation is no longer based on a denounced agreement. Most of the Member States of the Convention have stepped out or are entering the Convention. The adoption of the draft act gives the Ministry of Foreign Affairs the right to submit a notification of denunciation to the depositary. The draft Act repealing the Act on Accession to the Convention will then be prepared. The membership of the Republic of Estonia in this Union is expected to end on 1 April 2017. The law enters into force in general. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U166	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the Minister? There are no questions. Minister, thank you. Kalev Kallo, member of the Economic Committee of the Riigikogu, will present the speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U167	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed the draft 324 at its meeting on Monday 14 January. In addition to the members of the Commission, Marek Uusküla, Head of the Department of Customs and Excise Policy of the Ministry of Finance, and Maret Mets, Chief Specialist of the same department, took part in this meeting. During the debate, the members of the Commission asked questions, which were answered. For example, the question was whether our membership was valid, since the Estonian state that ratified this agreement had been occupied for 50 years. We have received an answer that is valid and that is historical continuity. The Commission was also interested in how other countries have behaved. We have received the answer that there should be 46 parties to the Convention at the moment. Finland has already denounced the Convention, but Latvia and Lithuania, for example, are still parties. The Commission decided to send the draft Act on Denunciation of the Convention establishing the Union for the declaration of international customs tariffs to the Riigikogu for the first reading. On 23 January 2004 (the decision was taken by consensus). Secondly, it was decided to propose to the Assembly to close the first reading of the draft (this decision was also taken by consensus). Thirdly, it was decided to set the deadline for the submission of amendments at 5 p.m. on 30 January. This decision was also made by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U168	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There is no wish for negotiation. The position of the commission is that the first reading of draft 324 should be completed. I will set the deadline of 30 January 2013 at 17:00 for the submission of 324 amendments. First reading of Bill 324 has been completed and the sixth item has been dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U169	Let's move on to item seven. The first reading of the draft Act on the ratification of the Treaty on the prevention of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of Turkmenistan begins. I am very pleased to ask the Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi for a speech chair in the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U170	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The tax agreement with Turkmenistan is based on the Standard Agreement of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, as amended during the negotiations. The Agreement regulates the sharing of tax rights between the Contracting Parties, lays down the obligation to prevent discriminatory taxation and to prevent tax evasion. The main differences between the OECD Standard Agreement and the Estonian-Türkmenistan Agreement are as follows: The Estonian-Türkmenistan Agreement sets a 12-month time limit for a permanent establishment in the provision of services. There are differences in taxation of dividends and royalties in terms of passive income. The tax on dividends paid to residents of another country shall not exceed 10% of the gross dividend (these rates are 5% and 15% in the standard agreement). For the purposes of the taxation of licence fees, the contract provides for a shared right to taxation. In the source country, the maximum withholding tax is 10%. According to the OECD Standard Agreement, only the resident country has the right to tax royalties. For the purposes of taxation of interest, the source country shall not be entitled to tax interest received by the government or central bank of another country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U171	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the Minister? There are no questions. Minister, thank you. Remo Holsmer, member of the Finance Committee of the Riigikogu, will present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U172	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This draft was discussed in the Committee on Monetary Affairs this Monday. The Commission decided to propose to the Plenary Assembly that the first reading of the draft be closed and that the deadline for tabling amendments be set at 15 January. These decisions were taken by consensus within the Commission. As the Minister of Finance said, this is a relatively far-reaching double taxation agreement. We also talked about this in a relatively brief way in the Commission. Estonia has similar agreements with a total of 50 countries. In the near future, there will be further agreements with Cyprus, Mexico, Thailand, Uzbekistan and Bahrain in this Chamber. So much for the future. I would ask for your support for this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U173	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline of 25 January 2013 at 15.00 for the submission of amendments. The first reading of the draft has been completed and the seventh item has also been dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U174	Let's move on to item eight. The first reading of the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act and the State Assets Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu Keit Pentus-Rosimannus!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U175	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! You have before you a government bill that wishes to amend the Nature Conservation Act and the State Property Act. The development of this draft law was due to the need to make transactions with state land as clear and understandable as possible, to ensure the targeted use of state budget resources and also to bring compensation for nature conservation restrictions on a uniform basis. The purpose of the draft proposed by the Government is, in particular, to create a level playing field for all owners of immovable property subject to a conservation restriction in the transfer of immovable property to the State, regardless of the moment they have acquired that property or immovable property, and whether the owner of the land has the ability or the possibility to participate in the auction of the state property. The draft was approved by the government in October last year. If this draft becomes a law, then the state will continue to make only purchases and sales in the case of land. The amendment is also that, after the entry into force of this law, the State has an obligation to purchase nature conservation land only if it is restricted after the private owner has purchased the land. Simply put, we have a desire to put an end to the set-off system and a situation in which the state and taxpayers have an obligation to buy out land that they were aware of when they were acquired that there was a conservation restriction on these countries. According to the draft law, § 91 (9) of the Nature Conservation Act removes the possibility of transferring to the State property with a nature conservation restriction acquired before 1 April 2007 for which the owner was already aware at the time of the acquisition of the property and whose protection regime has not since become more stringent. The draft creates the presumption that property owners whose property was restricted after they bought their property or whose property has subsequently become more stringent, in other words, whose property rights are affected more intensively, should not expect compensation over a period of time due to persons who were aware of the restriction at the time of acquisition and should therefore have taken account of it. When it comes to restrictions on the use of property, it can be said that there are restrictions in law that must ensure the preservation of public space or, for example, historical sites, as well as restrictions imposed in the course of planning, such as the height of buildings, population density, etc. As a general rule, restrictions on the use of ownership in the public interest are such that they are not compensated by the acquisition of ownership by the State. For example, the parallel mentioned repeatedly in this hall with heritage-protected objects: according to the Heritage Protection Act, restrictions on building for heritage conservation purposes or changes in building structures are not eligible for compensation even if they are in certain cases relatively strict. Pursuant to § 28 of the Heritage Protection Act, the regulation of expropriation and acquisition of immovable property on the basis of that regulation are only allowed if the owner or holder himself does not fulfil the obligations laid down by law to ensure the preservation of that immovable property. Similar rules for the use of immovable property are also in the case of a conservation restriction. The use of immovable property is not excluded in the case of a nature conservation restriction, but the use must take account of the conditions laid down by the legislation. It can be added, as an interim remark, that in international practice the acquisition of immovable property with a nature conservation restriction to the State is also an exception rather than a rule and only if it is indeed an expropriation. In general, the restriction on nature conservation is also considered internationally as a restriction on the use of immovable property which does not require the acquisition of immovable property by the State. We have also analysed the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights in the preparation of this draft. Several judgments of the European Court of Human Rights (e.g. I mention cases 41696/07 and 35264/04) have found that if a person knew of a restriction on property or other property rights before he acquired property or property rights, the restriction does not constitute a breach of ownership within the meaning of Article 1 of the First Protocol to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. During the preparation of the draft act, it has been tried to make claims as if this amendment could be contrary to the legitimate expectations of those who bought the land under protection before April 2007 to sell it to the State, and whose application will only be settled if the law enters into force after the State has acquired the properties on which the conservation restriction is imposed at a later stage. I think it's necessary to explain. Before 1 April 2007, a person who acquired an immovable property with a nature conservation restriction could not have had a legitimate expectation or absolute certainty that the State would acquire that immovable property at all, since until 1 August 2008, § 20 (1) of the Nature Conservation Act applied in such a way that the State had no obligation to acquire an immovable property with a nature conservation restriction, i.e. the law did not provide for such an obligation to the State until 1 August 2008. The State could acquire such an immovable property, but the obligation was not provided for by law. Thus, the decision-making body had been given wide discretion, including the right to consider a refusal to acquire immovable property with a nature conservation restriction which was already subject to restrictions at the time of acquisition. The assumption that a buyer can transfer an immovable property with a nature conservation restriction to the State is in fact contrary to the objective of § 20 of the Nature Conservation Act. The purpose of § 20 of the Nature Conservation Act is, however, that we compensate for restrictions that the owner of the immovable property could not take into account when acquiring the immovable property. Thus, when an immovable property with a nature conservation restriction was acquired for the purpose of transferring it to the State, the acquirer was aware of the risk, not an absolute obligation or right arising from the law. Of course, the acquisition of immovable property with a nature protection restriction can only be voluntary, and it was also so at the time, and no one was obliged to buy the land under conservation. Neither could the purchase of land subject to conservation restrictions have led to the expectation that the immovable property could be used in any other way than provided for by the protection regime in force at the time of acquisition. Therefore, the restrictions on ownership which a person could not have taken into account in the acquisition of immovable property and the compensation of which is intended by § 20 of the Nature Conservation Act. I would like to emphasise once again the main objective of the draft, which is to ensure greater protection of the rights of persons whose immovable property is subject to a restriction after acquisition and who were unable to take this into account when acquiring immovable property, i.e. whose property rights are affected more intensively. As stated in the introduction, the second part of the draft stipulates that in future the State will only dispose of land subject to conservation restrictions through purchase and sale. The draft will put an end to the possibility of offsetting the value of land sold on a public land auction with the value of nature conservation land. Real estates with a significant restriction will be acquired by the State only for money. The procedures for the offsetting of immovable property in which the application for set-off has been submitted at the time of entry into force of the legislative amendment shall be completed on the basis and in accordance with the procedures in force so far. As a result of the amendment, the State will be able to channel more money towards the purchase of immovable property acquired before imposing a restriction on the immovable property. That is where the plan is to channel more resources, because there is a strong barrier to ownership. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The draft decree regulates the acquisition of immovable property by the State subject to a conservation restriction and harmonises the principles of compensation for public interest restrictions. The adoption of the Bill as a law will ultimately ensure that the financial resources of the State are used in a more rational and purposeful way. I ask Parliament to support this rather important and clearer draft of rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U176	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U177	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Representatives of the Chancellor of Justice were also present at the meeting of the Commission, who put forward their arguments that this law would not solve some of the issues. How do you think this process could take place in the future to somehow emerge from this conflict?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U178	Thank you. I wouldn't call it a conflict. The Chancellery of the Chancellor of Justice has pointed out that this regulation has actually been amended several times already. Therefore, it is precisely from this perspective that they consider it reasonable to analyse the changes. However, as a representative of the government, I still believe that, as the current system has caused a number of questions and confusion, it is not transparent or clear enough, it is practical, however, to make the changes contained in the draft. The second point that the Chancellor of Justice has referred to also concerns the legitimate expectation, briefly discussed in my report, that the owner had in place when he acquired the land. When a person acquires a property, of course, he or she has the expectation that he or she will be able to use it for his or her own purposes. There is no very thorough or fundamental dispute about this either. However, the important nuance is that when a person buys a plot of land situated in a nature reserve or with a strict conservation restriction, the current protection regime provides for the purpose of enabling him to use his property. If there are no changes there, if, at the time of acquisition, he has been aware that the protection regime in some way restricts the use of his property, then he cannot have any expectation that he will be able to use the property in any other way. I can give the same example that if a person buys a house in the Old Town of Tallinn, he cannot assume that he can build a glass skyscraper in place of the old town of Tallinn, where certain restrictions and regulations apply. No one can have such legitimate expectations. If it purchases immovable property with knowledge of the restriction and this restriction has not become stricter, it is also not justified that the State and the taxpayer should be obliged to buy it back knowingly acquired immovable property with a restriction. In fact, the Chancellor of Justice and I agree that if there are significant changes to the targeted use or if ad hoc use becomes impossible, the State must acquire this immovable property. This is the case if the State imposes a restriction later, after the person has already acquired the immovable property. If the restriction existed already at the time the person bought the plot of land, it cannot have a legitimate expectation that the State would buy it back.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U179	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U180	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, The text of the draft law emphasises that a list has been drawn up on the basis of the declarations. When the bill becomes a law, the list must be reviewed and the order of the applications changed. At the Commission meeting, there was a wish that this list should be commented on. Has that list been reviewed at the Ministry? There are, as we know, nearly 400 applications. Once checked, what surprises did the list offer you?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U181	Thank you. The analysis of all 365 statements has not yet been completed, because it is important for us to get the principles in place and not to start making personalised decisions. The principle of the draft act is that those statements concerning immovable property where the breach of ownership is more severe should be dealt with as a matter of priority. The statements of those who have already bought a restricted immovable property and have now made a statement will be resolved once the problems with a stronger barricade have been resolved. As of last night, the examination and analysis of applications were at an advanced stage, but it is not quite ready. If this draft comes back to the committee after the first reading, then we will certainly be able to share this information very accurately by means of statements. 365 applications have been submitted, 27 of which have not yet been covered by the administrative decision initiating the acquisition procedure. This means that no decision has been taken on 27 applications as to whether or not the acquisition procedure is initiated. Speaking of trends, in recent years the annual number of applications has been around 20. Since we do not have intensive plans for the creation of new protected areas, it is also not foreseen that the number of applications submitted will increase very strongly. As of now, on this list, which is also publicly available on the website of the Ministry of the Environment, we have reached the resolution of the applications submitted at the end of 2005. In total, the State acquired 21 immovable property in 2012 by means of a purchase transaction and 73 immovable property by means of a set-off, in relation to transactions made in the previous year. These are the numbers we can talk about right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U182	Minister, there are no further questions. Thank you! Please present the Chair of the Riigikogu, Chairman of the Environment Committee Erki Noole!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U183	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act and the State Assets Act 289 has been discussed in the Committee on the Environment on a number of occasions. This was discussed for the first time on 5 November 2012. The Minister of the Environment and the Chancellor of the Ministry also attended the meeting. According to them, the purpose of this draft is twofold: to stop offsetting the costs of the protected land with the land to be auctioned by the State and to make such a change in the acquisition procedure that the State will first acquire the property of the persons who have acquired the land to which the State imposed a restriction after the acquisition and then the property of those who had acquired the land with restriction before April 2007 and submitted the application in accordance with the arrangements in force at that time. It should be pointed out that the first reading of the draft was due to take place in the plenary hall of the Riigikogu on 4 December, but since, as you know, there were night meetings, the Commission decided on 17 December to postpone the first reading today, 23 January. The draft was discussed again in the committee on 14 January, when the Chancellor of Justice's views were presented by Mr Merike Saarmann, Head of the Department of the Chancellor of Justice's Office - Counsellor of the Chancellor of Justice Ave Henberg and Counsellor of the Chancellor of Justice. Chancellor Rita Annus was present at the Ministry of the Environment. I will briefly mention what the members of the Committee on the Environment wanted to ask and what answers they received. The Minister has already mentioned the number of persons who have applied. There are 388 of them and an estimated third of them would be affected by the legislative amendment. However, as the Minister said, not all statements have been analysed accurately. The Committee on the Environment will learn more about the figures at the next meeting of the Commission. The members of the Committee on the Environment wanted to know what changes the Ministry of the Environment was planning to make so that constitutional monitoring was not necessary. In his opinion, the Chancellor of Justice also wanted to know the possibilities for reviewing this design and finding a new solution that the Chancellor of Justice could also accept. The representative of the Ministry of the Environment found that the draft has been up in e-government for a few months, and the version submitted to the Riigikogu is a compromise that has avoided the contradiction with the Constitution. The members of the government have also agreed that it is unlikely that the draft proposed in this form will prove to be unconstitutional. In addition, the members of the Commission wanted to know why the abolition of set-off is a good option if the country has no money to buy land with conservation restrictions. The representative of the Ministry of the Environment replied that the set-off would mainly take place if the owners were legal persons or even natural persons, if they were represented by a legal person. Against the background of offsetting, the exchange of hidden land with the State is usually carried out in a way that is certainly detrimental to the private person who owns the immovable property. He'll get compensation soon, but he'll have to pay a certain fee. Finally, I will mention the two decisions of the Committee on the Environment. The first decision was taken on 5 November 2012, the second on 17 December 2012. The Committee on the Environment proposes that the first reading of draft 289 be completed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set at 6 February. 4 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U184	Thank you. You have at least one question. Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U185	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Austet waitress! If one citizen starts selling land to another, it is a privilege for the country to buy out the land. If the State exercises this prerogative, will it take place immediately in the light of this draft, or will the land to be bought out be put somewhere at the end of the so-called state land list and the real deal will not take place until years from now?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U186	Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U187	It's not happening right now, it's going on the list.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U188	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Honourable waitress! I only have a question for the sake of the verbatim. The minister named 365 the number of applications, but your 388. Which is it?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U189	According to the data that I have, there are statements to this day 388. But I'll figure out the exact number and send it to you by e-mail.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U190	Honourable waitress, thank you. No further questions. I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask Kalvi Tõud, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U191	Good Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, It is said that the Public Procurement Act is the most frequently amended law in Estonia. However, we must admit that the laws relating to land ownership may be discussed more often in this Chamber. We can see the same with this bill. Good friends! What does legal certainty mean in Estonia? The purchase, exchange or set-off of land with natural conservation restrictions to the country has led to a number of problems. We are making changes, but new problems are emerging in connection with them. In 2007, the State said that it would not buy the land the owner of which knew at the time of the purchase that the land would be subject to a conservation restriction. It was a groundbreaking year. In 2008, the regime for the exchange of protected land was abolished. If everything had remained the same, we would have been stable and known to all to have been in place so far. At the same time, we all know that changing countries creates opportunities for misunderstandings. What, however, made the Ministry of the Environment set up a new scheme in 2009? What led the Riigikogu to put this new scheme into law? At the time, the draft explanatory memorandum said that the new scheme was designed to speed up the process of acquiring immovable property to the State with conservation restrictions. Right now, they're trying to stop it. What happened in the meantime? That legal entities would come and stand in line, they knew. Why were they given priority in case they wanted to buy land from the state at auction? Perhaps to speed up the movement of restricted lands into the property of the state? Perhaps to avoid stupid double transactions, where the person first pays something to the state and next year the state pays something to the person? Why do we need to change the current regime? Yes, now 365 people are waiting in line for the state to buy the land from them or allow set-off. The State has recognised that these countries are subject to a restriction that has a significant impact on the use of the land and that the State buys back the land or allows set-off. This order is circum ten years long. In this order, both those who have received the land back in the course of the return and those who have bought the land before 2007. In the order above are those who are facing a land purchase transaction with the State. They're hoping for a set-off. This set-off has been promised by the State, and only a few years ago, the arrangements introduced in 2009 provided for this. In line, it is those who simply hope that the country will buy the land with these restrictions. The applications have been made, the state has acknowledged that the land is what the state wants to take possession of. Now let's change the rules again: the possibility of set-off disappears. Maybe from a certain point of view, it's normal, maybe I shouldn't have even created that opportunity. But what about those who have already applied and acted in accordance with the current procedures? Under the new regime, they are pushed to the end of the queue, i.e. their problem will be dealt with in ten years' time. Then what are they to blame for? The state has had the principle that if a conservation restriction prevents the use of land, it will buy the land. He created a scheme not to pay for the land exchange. All it did was bring trouble.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U192	Instead of abandoning the schemes, a second scheme, or set-off, was created. A number of people and businesses have started using this scheme and they have taken this into account. Now we're going to lose this other scheme, and let's say that whose things are in progress, we're going to deal with them in the distant future. The Chancellor of Justice has said that this practice is not appropriate, that such a situation is unconstitutional and that it violates the legitimate expectations of citizens. Good friends! Changing the rules of the game in the middle of the processes is not appropriate for the rule of law. On this basis, the Social Democratic Party Group proposes to reject the draft 289 at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U193	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U194	I would like to ask Erki Noole, representative of the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U195	I would just like to clarify my answer to my colleague's question and I apologise for the error. If land restricted by nature conservation is sold, the state has two months to deal with it. If the State does not wish to acquire the land, there will be a purchase/sale transaction. Once again, I apologize for the inaccuracies!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U196	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading of draft 289 should be terminated. At the same time, a second proposal has been received, which reads as follows: 'We are going to reject the draft proposal at first reading. ' This has been proposed by the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Let us begin with the preparation of the vote on this proposal. I am voting on the draft proposal by the Social Democratic Party Group 289 at first reading to be rejected. Please take a stand and vote. 11 votes to 38 members of the Riigikogu with 1 abstention. The proposal was not supported. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of 289 amendments by 4 p.m. on 6 February 2013.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U197	Let's move on to item nine. The first reading of the draft law amending the Land Reform Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and consequently amending other laws begins. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister for the Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimethus!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U198	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear Members, On behalf of the Government, I submit to the Riigikogu a draft law amending the Land Reform Act and consequently amending other laws. The aim of this draft is to create the preconditions for the end of the land reform. I'm going to introduce the bill a little bit more widely. Maareform, by its very nature, means converting existing land ownership relationships into democratic state ownership, which is an important and major step. It is already known that this is a long time-consuming process. Our land reform has been going on for 21 years, which is quite a long time indeed. It can be said that as a result of this reform, 92% of Estonia has found its owner and more than 600,000 cadastral units have been formed and registered. As of January 11, this year, 626293 cadastral units had been built into the cadastral, with a total area of just over four million hectares. From time to time, when talking about land reform, the impression is that the share of the countries that have not yet been reformed is less important today. I dare say the opposite: even unreformed parcels are important to people and the problems associated with them will not be solved by themselves. Therefore, the current law needs adjustments. The task of the state is to guide the land reform process, not to allow it to tick indefinitely. The lack of clarity in ownership relationships hampers the development of both municipalities and the state. At the same time, ownership would provide clear prerequisites for a reasonable planning of land-related resources. It is important to note that this draft, which is before you today, does not bring about fundamental changes in land reform. Now, the overview by sub-section. First of all, one of the major problems that we want to solve with the draft is the reform of the land on which the land is built, the owner of which either has no right to privatise the land or he does not want to do so. For one reason or another, privatisation operations have in any case not been carried out. According to the current law, building rights are imposed on state land for the benefit of the owner of the building, who does not want to acquire the land or has lost the right to privatise the land, but it is not appropriate for the state to have such land loaded with building rights, as their administration is too costly. The draft law gives the owner of the building the opportunity to privatise the land belonging to the building before the so-called forced building right is granted by the State. The price of privatisation in this case is the current tax price. We in the government hope that this opportunity will be actively used and that one of the objectives of the land reform will be realised: the owner of the building will also be the owner of the land under construction. If the owner of the building does not make use of the privatisation option, the building rights will be imposed on the state land and the costs of the procedure will be transferred from the property reform reserve fund. Motivated by the desire to reduce the amount of land already owned by the State for the benefit of the owner of an existing building, it is envisaged to transfer the land to the owner of the building. Of course, those who have already been granted building rights to state land should not be placed in an unequal position compared to those who have not so far taken an interest in land reform. It is therefore necessary to enable these more diligent and their heirs to become owners of the land under construction under the same conditions as those acquired in the course of the land reform. Secondly, the draft offers a solution to the so-called strip problem. One part of the amendments concerns the privatisation of a piece of strip, i.e. a plot of land which is not available for independent use. The procedure will become simpler and more purposeful. It is no longer necessary to offer land to all owners of adjacent immovable property, but to those whose land is the most appropriate and appropriate land for the purposes of land management. The decision-making power of the municipality to find a reasonable solution to the immovable property and the extent to which one or the other strip is merged will also be extended. The principle of determining the sale price to be paid in the context of the privatisation of the strip is also laid down: the minimum tax price applies. The application of the most favourable tax price is justified, as errors in the land reform are generally not due to the activities of the persons who acquired the land. The more advantageous it is for a person to acquire land, the more regulation also serves its purpose. The amendments also concern land reform in land used under the Farm Law. While the current law provides an opportunity to place the building right in favour of the owner of the building on the land under construction and to put the rest of the farmland into use, the law did not explicitly require that land reform be carried out in this country as well. For such countries, the draft requires the land reform to be completed by the end of 2016. Now the deadlines. If Parliament supports the amendment and the draft becomes a law, specific deadlines will also be set for the completion of the various activities relating to land reform. Why do you need such deadlines? However, the aim of setting different deadlines is to deal intensively with cases where the reform has not even substantially started or where the process has become entangled in a wide range of problems. As you can imagine, for the most part, those cases where the reform has not been completed mean quite complex procedures. The deadline for the latest operations is 2017. This should be the year when we can finally bring this reform, which has been going on for quite some time. Obviously, it is not possible to push all the activities in the land reform process into the time frame. It must therefore be assumed that, after the deadlines have been reached, all procedures will be completed within a reasonable period of time. Priority shall be given to land to be returned and privatized, land to be transferred to municipal property after that and retained by the State. Since the formalisation is also linked to the activities of the local government, the deadlines have been set taking into account both the interests of the State and the burden on the municipalities. For example, the municipality will have two years to designate land belonging to all buildings on unreformed land. However, there is no need to set similar deadlines in the so-called strip procedure, as reform errors are likely to be corrected beyond 2017. Now, in a few words, local governments could be more active in applying for municipal ownership of the land. You, who are in contact with one municipality or another, put it to the heart of the local governments. Preconceivedly, the process of municipal ownership of the land has been considered difficult, but in fact it does not differ significantly from other land reform operations. The amendment provides that municipalities must submit applications for municipal ownership of the land by summer 2016. So the draft will make it clearer and easier to reform 8% of the land that has not been reformed. I would ask for your support for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U199	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the Minister? It is. Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U200	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Austet Minister! The planned entry into force of the draft is likely to be postponed from February to March. If rural governments are to introduce building rights on state land from April onwards, this must be done at the expense of the state. In the 2013 budget, did we provide additional funding for rural governments in order to grant state land building rights?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U201	Thank you. The establishment of building rights for state land also takes place under the current law. The amendment concerns, in particular, the possibility for building owners to become landowners, as was the case at the time of privatisation, once these operations have been carried out and before the building right has been granted. That's what's coming up. The costs have been taken into account and there is no reason to believe that they should in any way delay legislative changes. This situation should not arise.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U202	Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U203	Thank you, Mr President. I am glad to hear that municipalities will also have the opportunity to apply for more municipal land. But I understand that these are the land that is connected to the buildings. In densely populated areas there are also many unreformed states. Is it not appropriate to hand it over to the local government or to municipalise it so that some active activity can take place there and keep these areas in order or be put into circulation evenly? As far as I know, it's really hard right now.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U204	Thank you. To conclude my report, I said that there is a myth going around somewhere, like municipalisation is a very complicated and difficult process. This is not a complex and difficult process. When it comes to applying for municipal property of the land in connection with the performance of the municipality's duties, there is nothing complicated about it. If you know a particular example, let's talk about them. Often, it is much worse than the actual situation to talk about how difficult it is for local governments to municipalise land. Municipal property transfers are discussed in the government almost every week. So the situation isn't so drastic. This not only concerns the building floor or the land around the building, but we are still talking about municipalisation in general.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U205	Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U206	Thank you. Dear waitress, I am sure that the Riigikogu will formalise this bill into law and thereby contribute to overcoming the dog's tail. But I ask you this way. Good Minister, when do you think we're actually jumping over the tail of a dog so that the land reform can be declared finished in Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U207	Thank you for that question. 2017 is a quite realistic deadline, which will be set for various procedures in the Land Board after the draft has become law. I really think that 2017 could be the final deadline. By then, this big dog should finally get over the tail that turned out to be even bigger.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U208	Minister, thank you. No further questions. Aare Heinvee, Member of the Committee on Rural Affairs of the Riigikogu, will be asked to present the speech chair of the Riigikogu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U209	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Minister gave an in-depth overview of the content and objectives of the draft, and I will focus more on the debate that took place in the Commission. The draft law amending the Land Reform Act and consequently amending other laws 335 was discussed by the Rural Commission at two meetings: 17 December 2012 and 15 January 2013. On the first occasion, representatives of the Land Administration and the Ministry of the Environment, who presented the draft and answered the questions raised by the members of the Commission, attended the meeting of the Commission. In addition to the representatives of the initiators, representatives of the Association of Estonian Cities, Estonian Association of Rural Governments and rural governments participated in the second discussion. The initiators of the draft act were represented at both sessions by Triinu Rennu, Head of the Legal Department of the Land Office, and Maire Salu, Acting Head of the Rural Reform Department, and Merike Laidvee, Counsellor of the Legal Department of the Ministry of the Environment. The Association of Estonian Cities was represented by Alo Brandt, Head of the Urban Land and Land Management Department of the Tallinn City Property Board, Eha Võrk, Tallinn Deputy Mayor, and Irja Alakivi, consultant to the Office of the Estonian Cities Association. The Estonian Association of Municipalities was represented by the Legal Adviser Tiina One-gate. The rural municipalities were represented by Jaan Mark, Head of the Development and Planning Department of Harju County Government, Deputy Head of the Development and Planning Department of Saare County Government in the field of land operations Merike Toose and Head of the Rural Operations Department of Lääne-Viru County Government Sirje Kurik. In a joint letter to the Commission, the Association of Estonian Cities and the Association of Estonian Rural Governments submitted proposals to supplement and amend the draft. The debate was constructive in both sessions. The following topics were discussed in greater detail. Firstly, with the inclusion of commitments to local authorities, the State should also secure financial resources. Secondly, in the final phase of the land reform, is it possible to change the basic principles of the Land Reform Act by introducing a new basis for non-refunding land? The problem raised itself is understandable and certainly also legitimate, but not applicable in the light of the principle of legitimate expectations. Thirdly, the Land Reform Act is accompanied by a large number of implementing acts, i.e. repeats, imposed by the Government of the Republic's decree, which have been delayed in giving or modernising. Some implementing acts are also missing from the draft. Fourthly, the land belonging to the municipalities as at 16 June 1940 is partially not returned, on the grounds that the land was left to the reserve of the State. Fifthly, Paragraph 313 (5) of the Land Reform Act provides for the implementation of land reform in the case of land between immovable property, from which it is not possible to form an immovable property used independently. If the parties wishing to land do not agree with the solution proposed by the municipality, the land is divided or not divided and the acquirer or acquirers decide the land parent. This provision was called into question: Is the mayor compatible with the role of conciliator or judge? Sixthly, the topic of decomposed buildings under the protection of heritage and damaging to the landscape was raised, which, according to the Land Reform Act, would have to be repaired or removed within a certain period of time. Seventhly, Paragraph 25 (4) of the Land Reform Act states that 65% of the funds received from the transfer, transfer or transfer of land to municipal property or from the loading of land under building rights less the costs for the improvement of the land, including the reasonable costs of drawing up the detailed plan, shall be transferred to the reserve fund of the Government of the Republic's property reform. The municipality's proposal was to abolish this provision. Eighthly, the problems have been caused by the change in the shoreline as a result of the sea border retreat, but this issue will be discussed in the future when the Land Cadastral Act is amended. Ninthly, the deadlines set out in the draft need to be reviewed and brought into line with the time when the law will be in force. All parties agreed that the long-awaited draft law must be dealt with quickly and adopted as a law in the Riigikogu. Now for procedural decisions. It was decided to send the draft under discussion to the first reading on 23 January 2013 and it was proposed to close the first reading. The deadline for submitting amendments could be 10 days, i.e. 5.15 p.m. on 6 February 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U210	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? It is. Tarmo Tamm, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U211	Thank you, Mr President. A good colleague of treasure! Briefly, what will happen to the land occupied by the farmers? When will this usufruct end, under what conditions can they privatise this land, and at what price? Can you briefly comment on how this will work out?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U212	More specifically, the future of these countries is laid down in a separate legal provision, one can even say that the law. However, it is currently foreseen to extend the use of the land in which it is used. These lands are also insured by inheritance. No one takes the land away if it is used in a targeted and prudent manner. The short answer is that there will be a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U213	Meelis Mälberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U214	Thank you. A good colleague from the Commission! I was present at this very meeting of the Commission. Can you confirm my view that, although the municipalities have tabled a number of amendments, they are actually waiting for this law to be adopted and applied quickly?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U215	Like I said, that's exactly what it is. This bill has been in place for nearly four years, and it will certainly solve the bigger problems. Some small details remain, we cannot predict litigation, but everyone agreed that the bill should be adopted as a law as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U216	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. I open negotiations and ask Kalev Kotkase, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U217	Honours to the manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Democratic Party is in favour of a rapid end to land reform. We are therefore deeply puzzled at why the package, which was already completed in 2007, with 12 fundamental changes only now reached the Riigikogu. The draft law, which was to come to the Riigikogu for the 15th birthday of the land reform, will only come here now that the 20th birthday has already been held. Everything that is proposed in this draft is, in our opinion, reasonable, but not sufficient. In our view, this draft should also establish a regulation that would provide local authorities with the basis for acquiring land for the exchange of land for public use, which has been granted private ownership as a result of the land reform. Secondly, the obligation to transfer free municipal land to the State budget should be amended to 65% of the market value of the land. You could set a time limit here. If, for example, the land is disposed of after ten years, it should not be paid. The implementing acts must be completed no later than two months after the entry into force of the law, otherwise we will enter into the same rake as for land suitable for incorporation into immovable property where the implementing acts came into force a few years after the amendment. Fourthly, the so-called shorelocking problem also needs to be resolved. In Estonia, the sea coast and islands have a circle of twenty thousand properties, the size of which depends on the sea level. There are a couple of properties that the sea has buried. In most cases, however, the situation is that the then seaside property returned on the basis of the map of 1939 already has a hundred metres due to the rise of the land to the sea. We still do not have any legal regulation of the nature and future of the land thus created. Whether to treat such land as a land suitable for incorporation into immovable property or to leave it as England's property, we still have no choice. Ultimately, the Social Democratic Party supports this draft, while at the same time we consider it necessary to complement it in the way described above. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U218	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading of draft 335 should be terminated. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 6 February 2013. The first reading is closed and the ninth item on the agenda is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U219	Let's move on to the tenth item on the agenda. First reading of the draft Industrial Emissions Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister for the Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimitud!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U220	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Dear Members, The draft law on industrial emissions is not only one of the most substantial drafts in physical terms, but also one of the most important drafts regulating industry on the environmental side. The overall objective of the draft is to achieve a high level of protection for the environment as a whole. The immediate objective, if you could say so, is to transpose the Industrial Emissions Directive of the European Union into our legislation. The draft focuses on avoiding adverse environmental impacts from production with high pollution potential, such as the energy, chemical, oil or metal industries. To this end, the draft defines 15 industrial areas of operation with a high environmental risk, i.e. energy, chemical industry, waste management, etc., and sets out the requirements to operate in these industrial areas of activity with a high environmental risk. The draft also lays down the responsibility for non-compliance and the organisation of national supervision. The result of this draft act is that all requirements relating to industrial emissions have been incorporated into this law, and they do not need to be sought out in several laws. Using a more coherent system of definitions, the draft Industrial Emissions Act also harmonises the provisions of the current law. The draft Industrial Emissions Act is a further development of the Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control Act in force on 1 May 2002, just as the Industrial Emissions Directive is a further development of the Directives. Neither the draft law nor the Industrial Emissions Directive impose any new requirements, in particular the aggregation of earlier requirements. There are also some tightening improvements that are important for improving our environmental status and reducing pollution. Most of the requirements imposed by the draft are already in place in the current law. The main ones are the obligation to have a complex permit and to apply best available techniques to reduce emissions. But so far they have been laid down in several laws and regulations. The draft law provides for amendments to the Waste Act, the Ambient Air Protection Act, the Water Act, the Chemical Act and the State Tax Act. The Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control Act will be repealed by becoming a draft law. Now for the major innovations. The draft Industrial Emissions Act and the regulations to be established under its terms of reference include updated requirements for operators of combustion plants, waste incineration plants and co-incineration plants, installations producing titanium dioxide and installations using organic solvents. For example, there is a requirement to use best available techniques and to introduce stricter emission limit values and an environmental control system. The public will be more involved and a mandatory baseline report will be introduced. While these activities were previously regulated by the Ambient Air Protection Act, the Waste Act and the Water Act, all requirements have now been transposed into the Industrial Emissions Act. It has to be said that the production of titanium dioxide was previously completely unregulated. Installations with an obligation to complete a permit need to start putting more emphasis on the use of best available techniques. This will allow the normal operation of techniques to reduce emissions to the extent that emissions do not have a significant adverse effect on any element of the environment, nor do they violate environmental quality standards. Emission limit values, as already mentioned, are stricter than in the earlier Annexes to the Industrial Emissions Directive. For example, an operator who uses oil shale as a fuel must capture at least 65% of the sulphur dioxide presently generated in the combustion plant, but at least 95% according to the applicable standard. Where a specific emission limit value is not specified in the legislation, the permitor shall set emission limit values on the basis of the best available techniques (BAT) reference documents. Just in case, let it be said immediately that this requirement had been known 11 years ago. The environmental control system will become risk-based according to the draft. Three risk groups are distinguished and the control interval is differentiated when the permits are reviewed. So instead of the annual control that is currently in force, the interval will be one, two or three years. The highest-risk group includes high-risk installations in the field of activity, such as energy, chemical, oil and metal industries, of course also those that have already had misdemeanour procedures. They are still controlled by the Environmental Inspectorate every year. However, installations which do not use relatively small and dangerous chemicals may be inspected every third year. In preliminary estimates, about 10% of installations belong to the highest risk group, 25 to 30% to the second risk group and the majority to the lowest risk group, the third risk group. The public will have much greater opportunities to participate in environmental matters, including decision-making, than is currently the case. The application for a complex authorisation will be dealt with and the decision on its authorisation will continue to be taken by the Environmental Board, but the role of the public will be greater, as all important stages of the procedure will be notified, the proposals and comments submitted will be taken into account and the decisions to be taken will have to be justified. A new requirement for a baseline report will be introduced. It is a mandatory document for the operator to provide information on the contamination of the soil and of the hazardous substances used in the groundwater installation at the site of the installation. This requirement is for the first time, but it should not pose any particular difficulties in complying with it. Existing data may be used or obtained in the context of an environmental impact assessment. I said that this bill was one of the most environmentally relevant laws in the industrial sector. This law will regulate the activities of some 300 establishments. At present, 252 installations have been granted a permit for the environment and some 50 complex permits are added (in waste management sub-areas 29, for organic solvents 8, for plastic glues 7, for feed production 1 and for biogas production, an estimated 2 to 3 capacity for oil shale oil production). So the obligation to apply for a complex permit for the first time arises from the 50 operators mentioned above. Implementation of the bill as a law will add administrative burdens to the Environmental Board in particular over the next few or three years, but of course also to the Environmental Inspectorate. However, the introduction of a national environmental control system and clearer regulation from next year will reduce administrative burdens. All those groups that will be directly affected by the draft were very strongly involved in the drafting of the draft at the early stages of its development. Open seminars introducing the draft has also taken place in several parts of Estonia. At the request of the Estonian Farmers' Confederation and the Estonian Dairy Association, discussions and seminars for specific target groups were also held in Tallinn at the request of Saku and Tallinn and the Estonian Environmental Management Association. There were plenty of participants. It can therefore be said that both the requirements and the conditions contained in the draft are already well-informed. The proposals that have been made at the various stages of the preparation of the draft have also been taken into account when possible. I think it's a pretty good compromise. New installations will be subject to the requirements from the date of adoption of this Act. For existing installations, the draft provides for a residence time so that installations already operating under a complex permit will be subject to requirements from 7 January 2014, 50 new complex permit holders from 7 July 2015 and 1 January 2016 in energy. I would like Parliament's support for this draft. This bill deserves to be adopted as a law as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U221	Minister, there are questions for you. Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U222	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, Has it been taken into account how many additional resources are needed to bring the relevant sectors or sectors to the level of the requirements of the directive or the law? What effects could this have on the future development of these sectors or sectors?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U223	Thank you. With regard to these investments, of course, it must be said that a large number of investments which contribute to compliance with the rules laid down by the same law would probably make the companies anyway, as they make the production process more efficient and are simply economically reasonable. It is estimated that a minimum of one third of these investments are those that would have been made even if such requirements had not been met at all. But, of course, it's difficult to judge. We have now asked the entrepreneurs themselves. These estimates should be viewed with conservativeness. For example, oil shale oil production accounts for up to EUR 400 million over seven years. Once again, I say that a large part of this is still investments that would be made in the oil shale sector regardless of the requirements laid down by law. Porcine, beef and poultry farmers have been talking about investments of just over EUR 100 million over seven years (all but of course). These are the figures that the producers themselves have said. These figures are likely to turn out to be somewhat lower in reality. However, it is important to mention that investment grants, which have already met a similar objective, were issued by the PRIA, for example, over EUR 19 million between 2006 and 2008 and over EUR 41 million between 2009 and 2011. Support for eco-management was provided for around €120 million between 2006 and 2011. The amounts of aid that have already been paid out should be set aside here so that similar requirements can be met.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U224	Meelis Mälberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U225	Thank you. Good minister! There is very good news for livestock farmers in this bill. The threshold capacity will be increased from 300 dairy cows to 400 dairy cows. From now on, it will be necessary to apply for a complex permit for those with more than 400 cows. Maybe you'll comment on that in a few words.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U226	Thank you. We had a long discussion with farmers about this change. We really thought it possible to increase the threshold capacity. Cattle farmers have already been aware since 2002 that from 1 January 2007 they will have to submit an application for a complex authorisation. It's not a new thing. As far as the beef sector is concerned, 112 cattle farmers currently have a complex licence. Most cattle farmers have been able to obtain this complex permit. We are currently in the process of applying for three complex permits. There are four examples where cattle farmers have brought the current threshold capacity below the number of cattle in order not to fall within the scope of the integrated authorisation. But from 300 to 400, this number really increases. I think this is a reasonable compromise, which was born quite in the final phase of the procedure of this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U227	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U228	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear waitress, Every step taken to promote a cleaner environment in Estonia also affects the cleanliness of the Baltic Sea to a lesser or greater extent. Can you briefly describe the impact of this law on the state of the Baltic Sea?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U229	Thank you. The Baltic Sea and the rivers that go there will certainly have an impact on the wider agricultural sector covered by the same previous question. Indirectly, much of these requirements are still meant to make the Baltic Sea and our water bodies better. But the situation in the Baltic Sea, as I said today in Question Time, is not just up to us. The Industrial Emissions Directive must, of course, be transposed by all Member States along with all its requirements. It can be said that these requirements will be equally severe in the countries of the European Union. But there is at least one large country along the Baltic Sea that we do not have very clear control over. We don't have a chance to check it out. I think the more sensible requirements for the protection of the Baltic Sea will be introduced, the better the sea situation will eventually change. Although, of course, in the case of the Baltic Sea, there is a very, very long deadline when quality will start to improve in practice. This draft, too, concerns the Baltic Sea with its requirements, but not only the Baltic Sea, but also inland waters.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U230	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U231	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! My first question, especially the other part, where I was interested in the effects, was also connected with the question that I am now asking. I learned that those who comply with these requirements are investing heavily and trying to restructure production. Are there any indications, however, of the prices that will be paid by the final consumer? If the cost of production increases, what can consumers expect in the near future?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U232	Thank you for that question. Once again, these investments help, among other things, to make production more efficient. This means that these changes and investments are reasonable and necessary; they do not only create an additional burden. Secondly, it is important to look at the cost side of these changes. We have the European Environment Agency's assessment on the table, which says that the damage to human health caused by pollution from industry can be measured across Europe with very large amounts of money. I do not have an exact number available, but we are talking here not about tens or hundreds of millions of euros, but about over a billion sums. I think that if you put all these components on the table together, there will still be a plus, not the other way around. These investments are reasonable and necessary, save people's health and help to save health-related expenditure at a later stage.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U233	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U234	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Austet Minister! Does the farmer's obligation to apply for a complex permit depend on the number of livestock units in the undertaking or on the number of livestock units in the specific barn? Is it true that if there are 400 livestock units in one barn, you need a permit, but if the two barns are 200 each, you don't need one?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U235	However, this concerns a specific place of business.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U236	Minister, thank you. No further questions. I would like to ask Kalle Palling, Member of the Environment Committee of the Riigikogu, for a presentation!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U237	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on the Environment discussed the draft Industrial Emissions Act at its meeting on Tuesday 15 January. a. The draft Act on Unemployment Emissions was presented to the Commission by Ado Lõhmus, acting Deputy Chancellor of the Ministry of the Environment, Jüri Truusa, adviser to the Environmental Management Department, and Kadri Tubli, lawyer of the Legal Department. Officials of the Ministry of the Environment answered questions from members of the Committee on the Environment on the dates of entry into force of the various requirements and on the coordination circles that took place. As the Minister spoke very thoroughly about the content of the draft law and it largely covered the debate that took place in the Commission, I will not repeat it. However, I stress more than one important thing. Indeed, since this is a very large investment bill, estimated at EUR 700 million over a total period of seven years, the Ministry of the Environment has supported and continues to support the possibility for companies to invest in final cleaning equipment through EU funds in connection with the approach to the new financial period of the European Union. However, as there are no definite decisions regarding the next financial period, this is not all quite certain. It was decided to appoint the Speaker of the commission as the rapporteur for the draft Industrial Emissions Act, to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the first reading of the draft 345 be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu today, to propose to the assembly to stop the first reading of the draft 345 and to set the deadline for submitting the draft amendments at 4 p.m. on 13 February 2013. All the decisions were consensual.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U238	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? No, it's not. I thank the waitress! Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? There's no call. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 345 amendments at 4 p.m. on 13 February. The first reading is closed and the 10th item on the agenda is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U239	Let's move on to item 11. First reading of the draft Hunting Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, Minister for the Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimitud!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U240	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Happy Members of the Riigikogu! It is a pleasure to be before you with the draft Hunting Act, which has been prepared since 2009 and which a large number of you have certainly been looking forward to. The aim of the draft is, in particular, to direct the protection and containment of wild game communities in such a way as to preserve the favourable status of the population as well as the ecological balance of habitats and species. The wording of the objective and the move towards it by means of the draft has been prepared together with the various parties. People closely associated with the hunt have been involved: those who are not themselves hunters, but who are hunted in their land, those who have had to pay for the damage caused by very large hunting animals themselves at different times, as well as those who are in charge of controlling the numbers of animals every day or at least every weekend. The draft is a compromise, which means that there are likely to be some among hunters and landowners, forest owners and farmers, who think that not all the provisions of this draft and every decimal place are ideal solutions and who would rather see some solution than the one proposed in the draft. However, in a large way, it can be said that the most acute problems and the most complex conflicts with the draft proposed in this form should be mitigated. I assume there are some questions about the details of this bill. Therefore, first of all, I will introduce quite generally the solutions that have brought the draft before you. Similarly to the law in force, after this draft has become a law, there is a right and the possibility of organising large game hunts in the hunting areas formed by the state, the area of which must be at least 5000 hectares. Let it be said immediately that the entry into force of the law will not result in changes to the borders of the current hunting areas. The right to use hunting areas remains with the current hunting organisations. Why did we choose this path? It is probably known that at the beginning of the draft, there was a suggestion on the table that we could start from scratch in Estonia and re-establish hunting areas. But I think you're all imagining what would happen in hunting if we essentially switched the existing and pretty well-functioning system to zero and started again with the creation of hunting grounds. Our desire was to avoid such a long and difficult time of confusion. Therefore, the hunting areas remain in place as they are now, and the right to use the hunting areas remains unchanged under our proposal. Landowners will have the opportunity to participate in the selection of the user of the hunting area, and will also have the opportunity to initiate the replacement of the user of the hunting area in case of problems. The assumption is that two thirds of the landowners in the hunting area consider that the user of the hunting area is unable to carry out his tasks, and this is what he proposes. I would also like to say that the fact that landowners have no opportunity to participate in the selection of a hunter is one of the nuances of the current hunting order that landowners have most often spoken about. It is dissatisfied, it is not understood. The new law creates a fundamental opportunity for the landowner to have a say in who is hunting in his country. The organisation of hunting activities is, according to this draft, primarily an activity under an agreement between the landowner and the hunter or the user of the hunting area. The agreement between the hunter and the landlord is a very important one. It is also a presumption that, within the framework of this agreement, compensation for potential losses will be agreed. If an agreement cannot be reached on either side, or for whatever reason, and the landowner has not banned hunting on his land, hunting is permitted from sunrise to sunset and not closer than 200 metres to buildings. In such a case, if the owner of the land still suffers damage either in the field or in the young forest, he shall have the right to require the user of the hunting area to partially compensate for the damage caused by wild cloven-hoofed animals. However, this right arises only if he has previously informed the user of the hunting area where the plot of land which is likely to be damaged on his immovable property, on his land, is located, whether it is a field or a fresh forest young man. Such notification shall be made by the landlord in advance to the user of the hunting area. The law sets a ceiling for partial damages of EUR 100 per hectare. The Act sets out a number of conditions which must be met in order to enable the landowner to request such partial compensation from the user of the hunting area. Some unexpected questions have arisen as to whether, if the landowner and the hunter have an agreement with each other and compensation for damage is also fixed in this contract, the landowner is entitled, under the mechanism contained in the law, to apply for further partial compensation. No, absolutely not. Assuming there is an agreement between the landowner and the hunter, there is a partial compensation for all damage under this agreement and then, of course, the exceptional mechanism provided for in Chapter 6 does not apply. In order to prevent damage caused by small game, landowners will have the right to organise small game hunting on their land regardless of the size of the property. This means that there is a right to hunt for themselves or to allow interested parties to hunt for it. The bill also maintains the large game shooting test necessary to confirm the ability of one or another hunter to handle the weapon. A foreign national must also carry out a large game shooting test under the same conditions, unless he or she has carried out such a shooting test in a foreign country. He's got to have a statement about it. With regard to the hunting capacity, the State shall establish the hunting capacity of large predators and grey seals and shall draw up an annual monitoring report on all wild game, together with an indicative hunting capacity and structure. In order to coordinate and decide on the capacity and structure of hunting for hunters, regional hunting councils are formed from the representatives of the hunters and landowners, including a representative of the state. The hunting councils will now establish the volume and structure of hunting for wild cloven-hoofed animals. The draft also amends the Environmental Charges Act. The right to use the hunting area shall no longer be charged, and the users of the hunting area shall settle for the use of the land, where appropriate, directly with the landowners. The annual fee for a hunter is introduced, which is EUR 10.20 per year. Paying the annual fee gives the hunter the right to participate in the hunt with a hunting weapon, and a hunter without a hunting weapon does not have to pay the annual fee. These were major changes. But on the details, I'd be happy to have a discussion with you and answer questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U241	Dear Minister, Since there are quite a lot of hunters and women and men interested in hunting in the Riigikogu, there are also many questions for you. Helmen Hunter, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U242	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Currently, there are 64 rental hunting areas that have not been established as hunting areas. For example, in Järva- and Viljandi, where I have been elected to the Riigikogu, there are 30 of them. There is a real risk that hunting will stop in these regions from 1 March. If you look at the draft law submitted by the government, you can see from the coordination and comments sheet that 18 out of the 24 proposals submitted are not taken into account. The question is whether this is really the inclusion of good lawmaking practice and society, when, in the six weeks that have remained until the law came into force, the effort is being made to do a job that could have started much earlier. I will also ask which ministries have given the draft their approval.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U243	Thank you. I'll start at the back. The government can and will still submit to Parliament only on the basis of consensus. We don't have a situation in the government where, I don't know, one thing or another is decided by the votes of two: three or four: five. The government doesn't vote. The government will only submit a draft if there is consensus. Now the fellowship. Not for nothing have I said that this bill is, in my opinion, one of the world champions of inclusion. This bill was written in section by section literally so that the various parties, who represent the non-profit sector, were jointly at the table. The details were the subject of very long and passionate debates. I really don't agree that this job is going to be done in six weeks. In my introduction, I referred to the fact that this is a rather long-prepared draft. The preparation of the draft was launched in 2009. Since 2009, representatives of representative organisations from outside public authorities, both the hunters' association and the private forest federation, have been involved in the preparation of this draft. In delegations, members have changed from time to time, so the pace of preparation of the draft was at times somewhat slower than they would have liked, some issues had to be resolved again. But all of this has been done in very close cooperation. Once again, as such, neither hunters nor landowners will certainly welcome this draft with an exceptionally large hurrah, because neither side has got a perfect solution for itself. This, in turn, confirms that a balance point has actually been found where both have had to give up something, but the most painful issues have been resolved by both parties.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U244	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U245	Thank you. Good minister! Yesterday, at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment, there was talk of compensation for possible damage and of the proposal of hunters to set up a recovery fund. You've dealt with this bill a lot. Can you see the future when you set up this fund?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U246	Thank you. The damages fund is probably what we're talking about. It was on the table for quite a while while we were preparing the bill. We did not immediately set it aside and said that we were not working at all on the idea of this fund, but we discussed it and tried to find a solution that could be applied to this fund. But there are a lot of nuances to consider. The first proposal that we began to discuss concerned the creation of a national fund. The State Fund constitutes State aid which, in turn, imposes certain restrictions. Suppose it is not a state fund, but a fund operating on the basis of a solidarity payment, to which all Estonian hunters make a payment per year and from which the damage to the landowner will later be compensated. As I said at the beginning, the whole point of this bill is that the landowner and the hunter communicate with each other, so that these relations are as good as possible and that they can be reconciled with each other, under what conditions and how it is possible to hunt in the land of the land of the landowner. If there is an anonymous fund somewhere from which the landowner can simply receive compensation, why would the hunter communicate with the landowner at all? So he doesn't have to. In the same way, there would be a very different situation in Estonian hunting areas. There are areas where hunters have been able to control the numbers of animals so well that there are minimal damage and the relations between landowners and hunters are very good, there are no conflicts. But in some other parts of Estonia there is exactly the opposite situation: relations are not very good and damage is complained about. If there is such a solidarity tax, there will be a situation where hunters in this region, where there are very good times and no damage will occur, will have to pay for problems on the other end of Estonia. That would just be unfair. These are the substantive reasons why the idea of this fund was not finally included in the draft law. There are also purely practical problems here. Managing the fund would be complex and also very costly. If such a fund arises, it can be assumed that there will be a large number of applications, as there will be no longer any reason to enter into a contract between the landlord and the hunter. This, in turn, means that there are very, very many evaluation cases. Such a contribution from the Fund also requires follow-up checks. In terms of pure administrative burden, the preliminary assessment that we were given was that half a million euros per year would go to the fund alone to support it. I'm sure this money can be used more effectively. These were the reasons why the fund did not finally come into the draft law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U247	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U248	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! I also asked this question yesterday in the Commission and did not receive a satisfactory answer. You spoke in your survey of landowners, but my question relates to tenants. Very many landowners, if I am not mistaken, are located about 60% of them outside Estonia and the people who live here rent the land. What are their rights, what are their legitimate opportunities to participate in these processes? How could this regulation work?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U249	Thank you. The current regulation is still built on a ownership basis. The possibility to participate in the selection of a user of the hunting area in essence, should such a situation arise, is still ownership-based. Currently, the law does not provide for the possibility of delegation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U250	Karel Knight, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U251	Thank you. Good minister! Of course, it's a good thing we have hunting law on the table. These debates and discussions have been going on for many years, but I agree with you that no final compromise has been reached. My question concerns the right to hunt and the corresponding remuneration. Some 16,000 hunters are known to have been hunted in Estonia, of which 3000-4000 hunters (I may be slightly mistaken in size) cannot realise their hunting rights. I know that during the various discussions there has also been a question of whether, by analogy with Finland, the beaches of our sea, Lake Lämmijärv, Lake Võrtsjärv, Lake Peipsi and Lake Pihkva can be opened to all hunters through the Environmental Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U252	Thank you. This opening, whether we're talking about a beach or something else, has been discussed. But when we talk about bird hunting in the bill, it's like a small game hunt, it's a landowner's right, regardless of the size of the property. It is not now considered reasonable to actually open the beach in this form. But the question was also about the reward. As I said, the annual fee is only meant for hunters who own the hunting weapon. It has to do with the possession of a hunting weapon. If there is any good regulation on this, then it can always be discussed, because the possibility of hunting compared to the current situation will not deteriorate or change in any way. But if there are any additional solutions, let's discuss them.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U253	Ülo Tulik, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U254	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good minister! I certainly share your view that there have been many debates, and especially in recent years. It would be a sin to accuse anyone of having had little discussion of this matter. But it is known that the most problematic is the handling of damage. What's your opinion? Even if politicians are unable to agree on this, what would happen if the chapter on dealing with damages was left out of the bill at all?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U255	Thank you. I do believe in the capacity of Parliament's politicians and that Parliament's politicians can certainly agree and ultimately make a decision. Both landowners and hunters are tens of thousands in Estonia and it is always possible to find those who are not satisfied with one or the other detail. It stays that way, let's be honest. Such a draft, to which absolutely everyone would agree until the last nuance, is unlikely to be created when dealing with the topic of the hunt. However, Chapter 6 on compensation for damage is certainly a very important part of this draft. I said that there is not much mutual understanding between landowners and hunters on this bill, but there are no very big differences or conflicts anymore. I think that if a very important chapter for one party, especially landowners, were to be completely removed, it would simply be unfair. Perhaps it is reasonable to recall that the Chancellor of Justice pointed out the issues of compensation years ago. The same question raised by the Chancellor of Justice would then be completely unsolved. I think what is now proposed in Chapter 6 as compensation for damage is reasonable. It also takes into account the concerns of hunters or the fear that a large number of hunters might find themselves in a very difficult economic situation. We've been trying to take down all these fears. Today, however, we are talking about partial compensation for damage subject to very specific conditions. This should not go too far in hunting areas where there is good cooperation between hunters and landowners. Once again, the first and most important objective of this bill is to implement the principle of agreement. This mechanism, proposed in Chapter 6, is exceptional. The assumption is that hunters and landowners will agree among themselves and will also find a reasonable solution to possible and partial compensation for losses. In general, you must say (you yourself probably know this very well) that these agreements have been born in recent years and are becoming more and more. This cooperation has somehow gotten out from behind a rock. I think it's a very necessary and sensible trend. But I don't think taking chapter 6 out of the bill is a good plan.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U256	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U257	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister! In accordance with the current procedures, hunters themselves count game and appear to do so in the way they are currently benefiting. The best proof of this is, in my opinion, the title of an article published in Hiiu Lehe a few years ago, which sounded something like 1,200 boars were counted in Hiiumaa and shot at 1,400 of them. At the same time, the inhabitants of the island saw that nothing had changed, and the terror of the feral pigs continued with its former momentum. Does the new law rule out the continuation of such a situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U258	Thank you. I don't want to hurt anyone. When we talk about wild boars, the reason here is probably how quickly they're bringing little wild boars to this world. By the way, there was a question today about the number of our feral pigs, the joke that the boar is 20000, 25 000 of them were shot and 20,000 remained. I don't think it's appropriate to put it all on hunters. Is the fact that we cannot predict the growth of the wild boar population in detail a new law disappearing? The honest answer is, it doesn't really disappear.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U259	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U260	Minister, thank you very much. You stressed that the bill's transversal thought was that hunters and landowners are now better communicating with each other in order to balance the number of game. My question concerns the practical side of life. From time to time, farmers complain very strongly that wolves eat all the sheep, wild boars eat the potato harvest, and seals attack better fish in nets. You touched it briefly, but how much does the new law affect or prevent such situations?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U261	Do you mean that people are very dissatisfied because pigs come to their yard and wolves do harm? From a certain point of view, this is a matter of general awareness. After all, the wolf is also a confirmation that we have an entire ecosystem. But in places where the wolf does a great deal of evil, it is very difficult to understand. In the case of the animal population, we must also talk about the protection of the population from a certain point of view. We cannot create a situation where the damage caused by hunting animals does not occur in the field or in the forest, but there are no animals in the forest. Such a situation must certainly not arise. I think that hunting councils with landowners, hunters and also a representative of the state at a single table are places where such matters must be negotiated in a nice, honest and peaceful manner. With this bill, it is important that we have control of the animal population, but also protection.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U262	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U263	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister of the Environment, You've been working on hunting law for quite a while, and I understand that you've been doing it for quite a while. So we have been working on it quite thoroughly, which is very positive, because I understand that hunters, landowners and others are waiting for this law to come into force. But what about the next case? The landlord has chosen a hunting company in his country, but in this country the tenant grows fruit. When wild animals trample the grain, the tenant tells the owner that it has chosen the wrong hunters. How can we deal with situations where there are three parties? Can You Explain?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U264	Thank you. The assumption is that these three parties, or at least two out of three, will quite easily reach one opinion, which is important for both the owner and the lessee. If there are very serious damage caused by the failure to sufficiently limit the population of animals, why should the owner believe that this is a very reasonable user of the hunting area? The nuances concerning all relationships between people are evidently very difficult to write into the law in a very specific and rigid way. In the case of contracts, there is a presumption that a reasonable agreement will be reached and both parties should be interested in good and reasonable relations. The fact that the landowner has the right to prohibit hunting on his land is a fact, but in the long run it is not in the interests of the landowner, because the longer the yacht is banned on his land, the more likely it is that the losses there will not be reduced, but, on the contrary, they will increase. So these problems need to be solved in the spirit of the agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U265	Jaanus Tamkivi, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U266	Thank you, good manager. Minister, thank you very much. My question is a little philosophical. How do you feel about the Estonian people being, above all, such a good forest people? How else can we explain this great passion and activity in processing this bill over all these years? What's the phenomenon coming from? This is a law that does not affect the fate of the Estonian state and people in the long term, but the interest in this bill is very high and everyone is very active. Is it because of genes that still come from the woods?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U267	I don't know if they're the genes from the woods or exactly what it is. Perhaps part of the reason is that we are not creating a new system, but are changing what we have. Since the existing system has been in existence for quite a long time, there are some type of written or unwritten rules, the built-in roads and practices that one party, or hunters, will certainly want to maintain and maintain. It can also be understood, because their fears relate in particular to the loss of the possibility of hunting at all or to the occurrence of very serious confusion. On the other hand, the Estonian state has still moved very clearly towards a property-centred society. Hunting is an example where the landlord says that he has property, but he does not have the opportunity to have much influence on the property. This seems to be a scratching discord alongside the development of the rest of society. After all, with ownership, all kinds of changes create a great deal of passion there. Fortunately, there are not many areas left where such changes should be made on such a scale. I think, yes, changing the system we've been working on over a long period of years is always passionate. Perhaps it is also a part of the fact that the forest and the forest are related to the people of Estonia, also to those who do not go to the forest every day or who are not forest owners, something that seems to be of direct concern to us all. It is true that there are few laws that are always passionate about every human being. Whether I'm dating students, highly educated naturemen or teachers, it's weird as it is, there's always at least one person asking about hunting law. I guess it's a bill that's really, really, really expected.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U268	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U269	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, In the discussions in the Committee on the Environment and also in this Chamber, it has seemed to me that if we are trying to find the reasons why one or the other thing is not going to work, then the reason is because there are two camps: hunters and landowners. But since Estonia has an average property size of 10 hectares, I would argue that 15,000 hunters are most landowners. Almost all of them are landowners who want to hunt peacefully. But the other part of the problem is that every bill becomes a law with its implementing legislation. Are the implementing acts and all these issues confusing or not in Estonia's hunting?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U270	Thank you. No, it doesn't. These implementing acts, for example, concerning the implementation of Chapter 6, have also been on the table during the negotiations. Some implementing acts are included in the draft. However, if there is something missing here at the moment, I may not be able to recall very quickly what else should be here, then it can, of course, be submitted to the Riigikogu and the Commission. These acts exist and have been developed for almost as long as the draft, at least since 2011. They shouldn't be confusing. The point of the implementing acts is that they make things clearer, not more confusing.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U271	Karel Knight, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U272	Thank you. I will go beyond the question of my good colleague Rein Randver and reflect on the form of land ownership. Recently, it has started to address members of the Riigikogu, in addition to the themes of supporting the hawk hunt, with the concerns of small landowners. This bill has very well protected the interests of large landowners. But when you start choosing a hunting gutter, it's very clear that the size of the area in hectares is still the basis. Small land owners are beginning to complain that their rights are, as if, restricted. Perhaps it would be worth regulating hunting in the future on a real estate basis? I mean, picking a new tenant.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U273	Thank you. This draft was also considered in the preparation. This has been the subject of debate and this debate can be reopened, why not. The reason why, for example, now, landowners whose land covers two thirds of the territory of the hunting area can initiate a change of user in the hunting area is that we do not want the replacement of the users of the hunting area to take place simply because there are some interpersonal contradictions. The cause should still be very serious problems, for example, where the hunter has for a long time been unable to do anything to reduce the damage and limit the population. If such a situation arises, it makes sense that if someone in this hunting area has a very large piece of land, the damage that occurs on his plot of land is greater than that. If the owner of a small plot of land may not have this damage at all or is smaller, then very large fields and pieces of forest also mean greater damage. This was the reason why, as a result of the negotiations, the area-based approach was included in the draft. But it can be discussed again, there are dangers and nuances. As you know, the size of the property must be very small in Estonia. After all, we do not want to create a situation in which large plots of land are being cut up just to have more voting rights when choosing the user of the hunting area. All such nuances must be discussed. But this is probably something that needs to be taken up again in the Commission.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U274	Kalev Eagle, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U275	Thank you, Mr President. Austet madam minister! According to § 9 of the draft law, the hunting council is intended to organise regional hunting activities. What is a region within the meaning of hunting law? Is it a county or is it possible that in the future, for example, hunters in Tartu County will organise hunting activities in Jõgeva County?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U276	Thank you. No, the situation that hunters in Tartu County are going to organize hunting in Jõgeva County, we certainly do not see it coming. We are talking about a hunting council. This is the idea that is in here: a hunting council made up of representatives of the users and landowners of the hunting area on an equal footing. The county borders here would just be a little too wide. It is not best to take the county borders into account here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U277	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U278	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Madam Minister! With this bill, it stands out that there is a very broad geographical reach in the opinions on hunting boars and falcones. Would you mind commenting on that? Here are statements from North America to Asia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U279	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U280	Thank you. It has been quite interesting for me, too, to observe all the appeals sent to the Riigikogu with a hawk about the hunt. This confirms that this is a very efficient organisation, which has probably been very well able to activate its representations. In the case of a falcon yacht, we do not consider it reasonable to make changes, particularly because this has not been ours in any way and it is still necessary to take into account the need to preserve protected species. These are two main reasons why, at least on the ministry side, we do not consider it reasonable to amend the law on falcons. But if the Commission finds otherwise, we will discuss it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U281	Thank you. Good minister! You spoke for a long time about the fact that the Estonian people are forest people. But are the Estonian people also a people of agreement? It appears from the draft law that hunters and landowners should reach an agreement so that the hunt can be organised. Paragraph 24 refers to the contract. Is the content of this agreement more specifically open anywhere, or is it really just a landowner's and hunter's agreement in terms of content and terms? How do you assess whether these agreements are easy to conclude or whether there are many disputes?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U282	Thank you. Recently, agreements have been made quite intensively without this law. You can tell from this that we are also a people of agreement. Of course, there are different examples. Obviously, there are examples in each hunting area that it is not always easy to reach an agreement and a rather long and intensive round of negotiations must be carried out first. There may also be examples where no agreement can be reached at all. I think it is in both sides' interest to reach an agreement. It is important for landowners to minimise the likelihood of damage. That's why it's important to the landowner that the hunter hunts on his land. There's no model contract, and I don't think it should be. The current agreements are also the result of negotiations between the two parties. I don't think the state has to start writing anything directly here. Obviously, if we were to propose one of these model contracts, it would become a semi-mandatory form of contract. At the moment, we have not planned to develop any model contract. What exactly, and how the landowner and the hunter agree with each other, is probably very, very different from region to region, because in the end the property is very different and the dimension of possible compensation is very wide. I don't think it's practical to put forward a closed list here.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U283	Rein Randver, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U284	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I am simply saying that, if the Committee on the Environment currently had a draft regulation on compensation for game damage, perhaps we would be a little clearer about how to proceed with this draft. So, if that is possible, I would like to ask for this draft to be submitted to the next Commission meetings. But my question is that Estonia's hunting grounds are divided into hunting areas. Article 9 refers to the hunting council. Regional hunting councils are formed on the basis of hunting areas. What did the initiator of the draft law mean by regional hunting councils? Are these county councils? Are they regional councils such as the Environmental Board, for example, has one representation on three counties? Hunting councils will have a very difficult role to play in the light of the new law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U285	Thank you. I did answer a few questions before. It was discussed for quite a while. The county is too large, i.e. it's probably not practical to do it on a county basis, it's true. We have talked about the hunting council on a regional basis. If it needs to be clarified, we can certainly do so in the Commission; if necessary, we can also talk about it in the political groups. But yes, we will specify this in detail, because until the last moment, there was the question of who exactly belongs to the hunting council and how much territory this council will take over. We will, of course, forward the draft regulation on partial compensation for damages to you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U286	Väino Linde, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U287	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! One good colleague argued in his question that he was hunters and landowners. That's the way it is. The immunity of property is under the protection of the Constitution. On the other hand, hunting as our freedom of self-realization is also under the protection of the Constitution. To what extent is this bill balanced in this sense, or is it possible to make any other compromises during this procedure of the Riigikogu, so that both parties are truly equally protected?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U288	Tiina Lock-Tramberg, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U289	Thank you. Whether it is possible to make this balance even more secure, only Parliament itself can probably answer that. If you find places that need to be changed and polished so that the balance is even more secure, then I will only applaud it. If you come to such a compromise, it will be very good. It is unwise to contrast hunters and landowners to the end, because like landowners there are hunters, so there are hunters who grow the forest themselves or are farmers. It's a pretty intertwined world. However, I must say that when I continued the negotiations that Jaanus Tamkivi passed on to me, the first time that we sat at the table with the various parties, it was still very clear, even though there are representatives of the other side on both sides. Which is exactly how this inner recognition is going to take place, where one landowner, who is a hunter himself, I can't tell you. There are others in this hall who understand and know the life of hunters and landowners. If you find a more reasonable and appropriate compromise for the parties, then it is very good.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U290	Thank you. Dear Minister, How do you assess how this law could affect or affect hunting tourism?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U291	Thank you. Hunting tourism, of course, is not the main type of tourism, but it cannot be said that it is absolutely irrelevant. We have not drafted this draft, particularly with regard to hunting tourism, but we have also done nothing to hinder or complicate hunting tourism in any way. But above all, those at the table sought a compromise so that there would be a balance between landowners and hunters' representatives. I expect the Hunters' Association to represent, at least to a certain extent, those who engage in hunting tourism.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U292	Tõnu Juul, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U293	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear waitress, Mr Linde is, of course, a very good constitutional expert, but there is also such a sentence in the Constitution that natural resources are national wealth that must be used sustainably. What is your opinion as to how well Estonian men can share and use this national wealth after the adoption of the law? Is there still no danger that men will no longer fit into the forest in the context of over-emphasising property?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U294	Thank you. How property can be over-emphasised in a property-centred society maybe imagined, but this bill certainly does not have a drastic tendency to one side or the other. It has been a very important principle since the beginning of this draft, that we do not really turn our established hunting culture upside down. Let me give you a few examples: the same principle that hunting areas remain in place as they are today and that users of the hunting area will continue to be able to use their area on exactly the same basis after the entry into force of the law. I know there have been such fears at different times, but these fears are baseless. The bill wants to do everything in its power to ensure that there is no sudden change of heel in the hunting process that could cause confusion for a long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U295	Esther Tuiksoo, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U296	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister of the Environment, Since you have dealt so thoroughly with such a manly field, I have a desire to ask you whether you have taken part in some of the hunts yourself or whether you have at least had a desire to do your own hunting.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U297	Thank you. It's a complicated question, because I have to answer it so I don't insult hunters. The short answer is no. If I ever get anywhere near a hunt or a hunt, it can only be a photo hunt. But I will not go further into this philosophy. I haven't been hunting, and I can tell you with absolute conviction that I'm never going hunting.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U298	Let's move on to the hunting bill. Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U299	Thank you. Good minister! It seems that landowners and hunters are finding a compromise both in Estonia as a whole and in this hall. I go to the woods sometimes. I belong to the gatherers. Does the Ministry of the Environment have any intention of regulating the exercise of berries and mushrooms more specifically because of ownership and respect for the free conduct of people?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U300	Thank you. This bill does not directly concern the going on berries and mushrooms. The State Forest Management Centre, which is responsible for maintaining and managing the state forest, has done a pretty good job of bringing people, including the gatherers, more into the forest, to introduce them to the opportunities that the berries and mushrooms have. I think it's a trend worthy of praise. I hope that there will be more in this Chamber who are working on the gathering. But the people who go to the woods for berries and mushrooms could always be more.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U301	Echo Kallas, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U302	Thank you. Good minister! This is about the rights of hunters and landowners. As head of the Ministry of Nature Conservation, does this law also protect the interests of animals and carry out the task of keeping animals in our forests?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U303	Thank you. The same protection for the population can be mentioned. I am talking not only about controlling the population or controlling and restricting the number of animals, but also about protecting the population. This is, in any case, an important place, and it is still very important to us in the case of this draft. I began my presentation on the fact that one of the objectives of the draft is, among other things, the protection of the population. So it's important.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U304	Kajar Lember, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U305	Thank you. I understand everyone is full of faith that this law will still be enforced before March. Are you today, at first reading, full of optimism that landowners and hunters and foresters will be satisfied with this law at the beginning of March and a compromise has been reached?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U306	Minister, thank you very much for your presentation and your answers. I now ask for a presentation by Kalle Palling, Member of the Environment Committee of the Riigikogu Chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U307	Thank you. Right now, of course, it depends more on you. In the government, we have done our job as much as we could and put the draft in Parliament's hands. Parliament's Committee on the Environment has been very much involved in this draft. Even before the first reading, he invited the various parties to a table and listened to their opinions. I think that the intensity and efficiency with which the Committee on the Environment has begun to implement the Hunting Act is a guarantee that Parliament wants to move on quite rapidly with the draft. Your question also had another side to see whether there would be a law with which both parties would be satisfied. As I said, and as you probably know, if there are several tens of thousands of people directly involved in a single draft, there are always those who, in one section or another, would have envisaged a different solution if they could have written that section themselves. But I think, as a compromise, this bill is very close to the best possible solution. When Parliament comes to an even better solution, I, as Minister for the Environment, only welcome it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U308	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The draft Hunting Act was presented by the Ministry of the Environment, under the direction of the Minister, in the Committee on the Environment on Thursday 17 January. a. The item was introduced by Tõnis Lukas, who gave the floor to the Minister for the Environment, Keit Pentus-Rosimitus, to introduce the draft Hunting Act 351. The Commission was given a comprehensive overview of the objectives of the draft, the coordination circles that have taken place and the main changes made to the draft. Keit Pentus-Rosimannus and Andres Talijärv, Deputy Chancellor of the Ministry of the Environment, answered questions from the members of the Commission. I would like to point out once again that a very thorough debate was held. In this Chamber too, a very thorough debate was held just a moment ago and he was able to ask the Minister questions. There was even a more in-depth debate in this Chamber than there was in the Commission. Therefore, I will not repeat any fundamental disputes and questions. For my part, I would just like to add one thing: since we in the Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu have planned to process this draft very quickly, it will certainly be passed as a law in this Chamber for the anniversary of the Republic. Then, too, there is a certainty in these 64 hunting areas that from 1 March the hunting activities in their area will not be interrupted and the authorisations will become permanent, as provided for by the law. In the committee, it was decided to appoint a rapporteur for the commission to deal with the draft Hunting Act 351 here, to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the first reading of the bill 351 be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu today, to propose to the Riigikogu plenary to close the first reading of the bill 351 and to set the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft by 11 February. 4 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U309	Good waitress, thank you! There are no questions. I'm opening negotiations. I would like to ask Karel Rüütli, representative of the Social Democratic Party Group, for the speech chair of the Riigikogu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U310	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Dear guests! The Hunting Act procedure has given rise to many emotions. First of all, it is certainly important that the draft law has reached Parliament by the end of three, four or five years and there will be an opportunity to end the marathon negotiations, where, in a good case, a compromise can finally be reached between the three parties: the state, the landowner and the hunter. On the other hand, it is saddened that a compromise that is satisfactory to all parties has not been reached in the Ministry and the final stakes must be beaten to the ground by the Committee on the Environment and the large Chamber of the Riigikogu. I have met very much myself in recent years, both landowners and hunters, and it has become clear to me that very many issues are understood differently, but it is also a pleasure that very many issues have the same understanding. In view of all these disputes, I believe that we should not give priority to the interests of landowners or hunters, but rather to the interests of the game in our forests. As has already been pointed out in this hall, Estonians have always been forested and have always been forested. I hope that, during this procedure, we will be able to ensure that at least this law does not move towards the forest. We can be proud of the fact that there is a very rich population of game in Estonia. We have enough small predators and there are also great predators: wolves, lynxes, bears. They are extremely rare in the European Union. We have plenty of cloven-hoofed and wild birds. The European Union's hunting experts or specialists have often expressed great surprise at how Estonia has managed to organise hunting in such a way that we have a very rich game population. In particular, we should be pleased that our deer population is undoubtedly one of Europe's most viable. This is definitely a sign that the current hunting arrangements have been quite good and successful. I will address some of the issues that are important for the sustainability of hunting. In my opinion, this principle, which is also included in this bill, is extremely important: hunting can only exist successfully in a triangle of hunter, landowner and state. The progress of these really long negotiations shows that, for example, I do not know the hunter and have not met the hunter's organisation, which would say that land ownership or any private property would not be sacred, so that the owner of the land should not be taken into account in hunting. On the contrary. This has actually been one very big step forward that we have achieved in these discussions. Personally, I find it extremely sympathetic that there are now three parties in the hunting council and that this council is formed mainly on an equal footing, although the state's participation could be greater there. But in law terms, the hunting council is primarily a regional unit, which means that Jõgevamaa and Tartumaa are together.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U311	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U312	I think it's reasonable to assume that hunting is county-centred. The hunting council has an extremely important role and responsibility when it comes to hunting limits and damages. The hunting council at county level is, in fact, the institution which must be in the middle of these disputes and disagreements and, if possible, to resolve them. For a very long time, discussions have discussed who owns the game. According to Estonian regulations, game is an unhosted property. There are, in fact, two approaches in the European Union. One approach considers game to be an unmanageable asset, as is the case in Estonia, and the other is that it is the property of society, or state. I want to take a little fear off those who say that Estonia's hunting is obsolete, it is a socialist heritage, and we should move closer to Europe. There is no such thing as a common European hunting policy; Member States have organised very differently from hunting. Yes, there are many countries where it takes place only on a land-based basis, but there are also countries where hunting is organised and regulated only by the state, such as Switzerland. To say that in Switzerland hunting is socialist or outdated or God knows what is definitely wrong. In this sense, we are moving closer to a very large number of countries with this bill, but to say that everything that has been so far is wrong in any case. Many of the contradictions that may arise with this new law are due to the fact that at one point we are in a situation where the conflict is centred not on landowners and hunters, but on landowners and landowners, especially small-scale landowners versus large-scale landowners. When a hunter is chosen, the size of the property is taken as the basis. There may be a risk that small landowners will be left out of the hunt at all because the decision-making power is given by areas and square metres. It is a good thing, of course, that the new law preserves hunting societies, but there are certainly plenty of opportunities here to start replacing hunters. I think, as the Minister pointed out, that there are no problems in very many regions, and 324 hunting companies may have problems in about 10%. But is it the right thing for us to start making very thorough adjustments because there are problems in individual hunting societies? Finally, the most important thing is, of course, compensation for damage. I believe that we will have a serious discussion in the Commission because, in addition to the damage caused by game and cloven-hoofed animals, we must consider that we have a large number of large predators who must be guaranteed a certain number of cloven-hoofed animals so that they are full and do not tend to attack livestock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U313	Thank you. Any more calls? Please ask Aivar Riisalu, representative of the Estonian Central Party Group, to the Riigikogu Chair of Speech!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U314	Good President! Ladies and gentlemen, I am taking advantage of the fact that, of my colleagues, only the vice-chairman of the honourable group is still in the Chamber. I slipped here to talk about hunting, but I don't want to speak so much on behalf of the Centre Party Group. The Centre Party has not very clearly shaped its position in hunting, because we have such a humane party where there are not many passionate hunters, except me. As far as hunting law is concerned, we discussed in the group how to position ourselves. The processing of the Hunting Act has brought into Estonian politics a whole new level, so passionate the discussion of draft laws we do not see very often. This clearly shows that the active part of society is relatively likely to be in the forest for some reason. When we talk about members of the Riigikogu, it is quite nice to see the growing interest in the yachts organized for us. First they come into the woods without a gun, but soon they'll have guns that can shoot game. If I am referring to the emergence of a new quality of processing of draft laws, I must also say that it has highlighted a problem that speaks in a sense of tension in society when it is actually trying to regulate one of the natural parts of life. I admit that I myself have been very critical of other hunters as a hunter. My relationship with the hunting section of my home is, to put it mildly, poor. When I saw the wild boars and the wild boars in my estates, I thought I should go bow down to the hunting section door and beg some pigs to come down, and suddenly the others will be tamed. When I was driving around in the woods, I saw a big wild boar that was a little bigger than a locomotive, I realized I had a problem in the house, and I was almost ready to go bowing to the door of the hunting section. But on the weekend, my house walked through the courtyard with guns on, two men I didn't know and my children knew even less. They didn't introduce themselves. They were completely buried in a cube because a gun doesn't come into a foreign courtyard. I'll be honest again. I'm not going to the hunting section. Let those pigs eat there! Let's just say that I've had enough emotions built up in me, precisely on the issue of where, after all, this limit goes. A person with a gun, he's a hunter, a defence ally, a defence forceman or whoever, he's a completely different quality citizen. It's like he's psychologically created his preferred condition. If a person with a gun shows up, the eyebrows will come up. I would like to say that this is probably why we are dealing with this bill here in one way or another. I also recall that when I and my colleagues tried to solve the problem of 1 March with 64 hunting areas, I began to receive evil letters from hunters claiming that the five members of the Riigikogu were completely stupid, they did not understand anything. In fact, the titles appeared that the Riigikogu is trying to intervene in normal legislation. It is, after all, the task of the Riigikogu to legislate! I do not think that, by proceeding to the end of this bill, we are going to draw any line down on the problem scene and remove the tensions in the society that, as it were, have emerged during the procedure: the tensions between the various landowners, the large and the small, between hunters and landowners. I'm asking for three more minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U315	Would you like to share your thoughts more?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U316	Yeah, I'd like to share my thoughts.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U317	Three minutes extra time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U318	I've been thinking that if the defence ally is on a field drill, it's like he's causing noise pollution, but if the hunter pops, where God leads, there's nothing wrong with it. I, as a citizen, ask how it can be that one, in fact probably in life, a segment that is much better secured than the others, who can obtain weapons, can bang them in the wild. I think there are bottlenecks to overcome here and there are. Much has been said about the use of dampers. Everyone says that then poaching goes off and so on. Actually, we've opened one of Pandora's boxes, but there's no solution at all. But there is also a lot of positive in all of this. On the positive side, it could be written that at least a dialogue has been born about the conflict between interest groups. I think it is certainly possible to reduce the use of the new law by simply walking around the ground with a gun. One more thing that can be said about this bill's handling and hunting colleagues as positive. In the Committee on National Defence, we have decided to open negotiations with hunters. Hunters are actually quite important from the point of view of national defence. I think if the hunters could show themselves as more patriots, we'd have, given the overlap, about 10,000 weapons and natural conditions with potential defense allies. If we could work together here, I, too, would be much more relaxed on many issues. I stress that the Central Party's position is in favour of hunting law. The Centre Party hopes that there will be cultural laws in Estonia, also in relation to hunting, because this is a source of greater danger, i.e. a person with a weapon is involved on one side. I hope that the culture expressed by these evil letters will disappear from our lives so that we should stop doing this and we should not interfere at all because they are men and they have guns. I also hope that we will have a good and beautiful law that will allow animals and people to live, no one will feel insulted, landowners will not quarrel with each other, and the parties could deal with hunting law in a cross-party, without politics. At a narrow time, the wild animals have kept the Estonian people alive and given us the opportunity to survive fleeing the forest from the crusaders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-01-23_U319	Thank you. No more calls, I'll close the negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading of draft 351 should be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting amendments at 4 p.m. on 11 February 2013. The first reading is closed and the 11th item is also closed. Today's trial is over. I wish you strength in your work! Closure of the sitting at 6.35 p.m.
