ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, and honourable members of the government. I congratulate you all on the beginning of spring! [[Let's hear it.]] Let's start our first spring briefing. Please, let's do the presence check! 39 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 62 are missing. In today's Question Time, the following members of the government will participate: Minister for Defence Urmas Reinsalu, Prime Minister of the Environment Keit Pentus-Rosimannus and Minister for the Interior Ken-Marti Vaher.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U2	Let's start asking questions. Although only five issues have been registered today, in order for us to be able to discuss all the issues, I will initially give the opportunity to table two questions on each subject on the spot. First of all, my colleague, Mr Ossinovski, has a question for the Minister for Defence, Urmas Reinsalu, who is today in charge of the Prime Minister. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U3	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Secretary of Defense! According to the law, in addition to the smaller islands, many municipalities in South-East Estonia and Ida-Virumaa are allowed to purchase land only by citizens and legal entities of the countries of the European Economic Area. At the end of 2011, the Riigikogu's procedure was a legislative amendment, according to which non-citizens living in Estonia in the long term were to be allowed to buy up to 0.2 hectares of land in the municipalities where it is currently banned for defence reasons. At the time, the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu found that the Ministry of Defence should develop a new complex solution based not on local governments but on objects of national defence importance. A year later, on 15 November 2012, the Minister of Justice answered my written question that the Ministry of Defence had not yet submitted an analysis to the government. When can we expect an analysis? What direction do your thoughts move in, and is there any hope that someday you will change?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U4	Thank you, Honourable Inquisitor. First of all, on behalf of the Government, let me also congratulate Parliament on the beginning of spring. The issue of national defence restrictions is very serious and important. The Department of Defense has already taken several steps. I call them. Firstly, the amendments to the Planning Act, which will enter into force on 1 April, must coordinate with the Ministry of Defence the planning of all buildings above 28 metres in height. The process of preparing regional plans will also be launched this year and the Ministry of Defence has drawn up its starting positions on regional plans. Codification of planning and construction law is also underway. In this area, too, the Ministry of Defence intends to present its legislative proposals on security perimeter protection for defence objects, requirements for immovable property in the ammunition threat zone and noise zone and, as I mentioned, the requirements applicable to radars. It is also a question of the implementation of the law on the limitation of the acquisition of immovable property in respect of immovable property located in the immediate vicinity of defence objects. We intend to develop a comprehensive approach, including legislative proposals. It's on the Ministry's work schedule for next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U5	Please, Mr Ossinovski, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U6	Thank you. Legal persons registered in Estonia may also purchase immovable property in areas with national defence restrictions and the owner of a legal person registered in Estonia may, as is known, also be a person who does not have Estonian citizenship. We have seen in practice that non-citizens can, however, somehow bypass the current regime and buy land. This is more bureaucratic and complicated for people, and there is a certain group of people who make money from this bypass. In this context, I wonder whether you believe that such an acquisition of immovable property in these areas has led to a risk to the security of Estonia. If not, is it practically justified to impose such a restriction on long-term residents who have a stable relationship with Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U7	Thank you. Surely the law must be purposeful and fulfill the task assigned to it and the restrictions must be proportionate. This is a constitutional requirement. I do not deny that this fact relating to legal persons is indeed one aspect that needs to be analysed. It is necessary to determine whether such restrictions on the acquisition of immovable property are reasonable, maybe they should be extended or applied more effectively. As a representative of the Ministry of Defence, I certainly do not take the view that a restriction is necessarily a matter for myself. On the contrary, there are national security interests that are absolutely legitimate and constitutional. The interest of the Ministry of Defence is to protect these security interests in a proportionate manner, not by imposing excessive restrictions on civil turnover. I wouldn't go against one group of real estate owners here or another. I would like to point out that the current regime, which Parliament has discussed in depth and which it has approved, is not, in the view of the Government, contrary to European Union law. Possible changes, in particular to national defence and security interests, are under analysis. We are looking at these changes in a holistic way, bearing in mind the objectives that these restrictions should meet.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U8	Please, Mr Ossinovski, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U9	Thank you. My last question to you is a bit broader than the usual question to the Minister for Defence of the Prime Minister's duties. You mentioned European Union law. The Long-Term Residents Directive requires Member States to treat persons with long-term resident status in their territory equally with their nationals in a number of areas. The Directive requires equal access to goods and services available to the public, including housing. As we know, people in Narva and near Narva have problems buying and selling real estate, as neither sellers nor buyers often have Estonian citizenship. Do you think that, in view of this, we treat long-term residents equally with our citizens on the issue of housing arrangements?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U10	Thank you. As regards the compatibility of the law on the limitation of the acquisition of immovable property with European Union law, I can say that these restrictions are justified by Article 65 (1) (b) and (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and also by the Agreement on the Conditions of Accession of the OECD to the Convention. I stress that, as a result of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, a Member State has the right to take all necessary measures which are justified from the point of view of public security. The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union also stresses that these measures must not constitute arbitrary discrimination. Once again, I would like to confirm that the current regime is not considered by the Government to be contrary to European Union law. Whether these rules should be amended in the interests of defence and public security is the subject of a thorough and comprehensive analysis, which is also concerned with the codification of the rules on planning and construction law that the Ministry of Justice is planning. The Ministry of Defence will present its comprehensive approach in the next year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U11	We will continue with the issues registered on the ground. Please, colleague Heimar Lenk!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U12	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Mr. Minister! You've read a whole series of limitations, which I would call military restrictions. They are to be introduced in the near future. I was wondering if we might be overreacting with these restrictions in the big sense of leadership. Secondly, I ask why this question of immovable property is dragging on for so long. I remember this subject has been in this hall for ten years. Mikhail Stalnukhin has repeatedly raised this issue. Is there no way the Department of Defense can take a final stand?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U13	Thank you. I would like to remind you that the law is being passed by Parliament. Parliament has discussed this law in depth and found that the Ministry of Defence should analyse it in a comprehensive manner from the point of view of national defence. We're doing it, like I said. As far as national defence matters are concerned, I would like to say that national defence interests are certainly important for this type of law. I would not underestimate public interests, including security interests, in the exercise of property rights. Without a doubt, restrictions must be legitimate and proportionate. We will certainly take this into account in the case of possible changes. However, I have absolutely no reason to expect today, and neither does the government claim that the procedure adopted by Parliament would be in any way contrary to either our international obligations or our constitution.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U14	I would like to ask you the last question registered on the ground, Mr Allik.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U15	Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I have a good opportunity to remind you that Mart Laar, as your predecessor's minister, agreed to the proposal we made in Parliament on this issue. But I'm asking you very simply, and I want a simple answer. Is it hoped that this time, which we are talking about, will be humanized and stopped bullying the owners of gardening plots of 0.2 hectares of Narva and Narva-Jõesuu under security considerations? For example, such restrictions are not applied in Finland and Latvia, as was clear from the previous debate.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U16	Thank you, Honourable Asker. I want to confirm once again that the interests of national defence are the legitimate interests of a state wishing to exercise its independence. These interests will certainly not be realised with the aim of persecuting anyone under any restrictions, as you said. The rules that have been laid down are also legitimate and have been put in place by Parliament. In answer to the question of whether there will be changes here, I would like to stress once again that the Ministry of Defence is looking at matters in the interests of national defence. We are analysing possible changes to planning and construction law. We want to remain within the framework of national defence objectives. Whether these possible changes lead to an improvement in the rules or to a tightening of the rules depends on the results of the analysis.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U17	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U18	The next question is from my colleague, Olga Soldier, to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher. Please, Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U19	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. I would like to continue on this subject, which I started on my written question some time ago. In your reply, you wrote that the information mentioned in paragraphs 2 and 3 of § 1111 of the Electronic Communications Act may be requested by the investigating authority only with the permission of the prosecutor's office or court. Such a limitation does not apply to paragraph 1 of the same section. In other words, the investigating authority may collect data on the source and destination of the communication, the date, time and duration of the communication, and the location of the communication device, without the permission and knowledge of the prosecutor's office and the court. Is that what I just said? If so, isn't there a people's right to privacy that courts and prosecutors have to protect?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U20	Thank you for your question. For the other participants in Question Time, this issue may have been somewhat unclear. I'll explain in a few words. The honourable member of the Riigikogu asked if algorithmic profiling is being carried out in Estonia. He has asked the Ministry of the Interior a number of questions on this subject, which have also been answered. In total, 12 of these questions have been raised. I can repeat the main points of view. The offices of the Ministry of Internal Affairs do not carry out algorithmic profiling; this is not allowed under Estonian law either. Paragraphs 111 and 112 of the Electronic Communications Act are referred to. I can only repeat that communications undertakings have an obligation under the Electronic Communications Act to store these data, but access to these data can be obtained on the basis of specific requests. An independent log file will remain for all queries. This subject has also passed through the public a few years ago. These independent log files are supervised by the Prosecutor's Office and the Special Committee on the Supervision of the Security Authorities of the Riigikogu. Finally, I can add that, on the basis of contracts with the liaison companies, communication data will not be transmitted to the authorities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs in real time, but will be allowed to make specific enquiries on the basis of the respective permits.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U21	Please, Mr Olga Soldier, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U22	Thank you. Mr. Minister! You didn't answer my question, but I'll have to send you another written question to get a more precise answer. I'll continue with Skype. Recently, an article was published that Russian intelligence allegedly has access to Skype conversations. That is why my question is somewhat motivated. After all, Skype has been advertised over the years as a very secure communication tool that we all use, for example, is used in some countries by dissidents to fight against the undemocratic government of their country, but it is also used by criminals. Does the Estonian legal system consider Skype to be a communications operator for whom it is possible to perform the activities provided for in § 113 of the Electronic Communications Act? This section clearly states that a liaison undertaking must allow access to the communication network by a tracking or security authority for the purpose of conducting a surveillance operation or restricting the right to the secrecy of a message.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U23	Thank you for your question. As regards whether Skype, which we are all certainly very proud of as Estonians, is a communications company, according to the Electronic Communications Act, it is not a communications company. Skype is an online IT platform. As we have also responded in writing, there are clear restrictions arising from the law on the precise nuances of technical instruments and their use. You asked whether the Estonian state would do everything in its power to detect and prevent crimes and whether international cooperation would also take place here. The Estonian state will certainly do its utmost in the framework of international cooperation, in particular we are trying to detect cross-border and organised crimes. We increase the capacity and capabilities of the state here every year. Increasing means allocating resources, training human resources and working more closely with good partners. So the answer is definitely yes. We are constantly increasing the capacity and capacity of our country to face cross-border crime. You rightly said that serious covert crime is more internationalised, particularly drug trafficking, attacks in the online environment, etc.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U24	Please, Mr Olga Soldier, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U25	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! Did I understand correctly from your answer that the Estonian state has the capacity to listen to Skype's calls and messages and that Microsoft has provided you with the necessary tools to do so?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U26	Thank you for your question. As I mentioned, I cannot answer this question either in the affirmative or in the negative, because the information on the technical means used to collect this information is a state secret. You are asking about nuances and details that cannot be specified. This is not what we did in a public reply to your questions, and I certainly will not go further in answering your question in Question Time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U27	Now two issues registered on the spot. Starts with my colleague Valdo Randpere.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U28	Thank you. Good minister! I hope I won't reveal any big secret now. Ten years ago, I worked in IBM, where the installation of Skype was not only unrecommended, but even prohibited, because IBM thought it was an unsafe communication environment. This may have been due, of course, to the fact that we had our own, much more awesome platform. But I wanted to ask whether the Estonian state has made any recommendations about which communication environments the Estonian public authorities should use and could use and which they should refrain from.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U29	Thank you very much for your question. As far as public authorities are concerned, I think that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is certainly much more competent here; there are experts there. I have no information on whether there are general recommendations on which platforms to use. From this issue, we are likely to move on to the general problem of the IT service of all public authorities. For example, in the area of administration of several ministries, I think, over the last five to seven years, the IT service of different authorities has been aggregated. The Registries and Information Systems Centre, which manages information technology in the entire area of the Ministry of Justice's administration, organises procurements and provides services, is certainly a good example here. The Ministry of the Interior has also had such an institution for some time, which is the IT and development centre of the Ministry of the Interior. A similar arrangement takes place in the area of government of the Ministry of Finance. From here we come to the following question: is it wise to consolidate or to concentrate in one place the IT service of different ministries, including the communication environments you asked, certain common platforms, maybe also information technology developments? This is an issue that is being debated in the government. I hope that we will move forward here because, in terms of resources, this is probably an important opportunity to save taxpayers' money and perhaps to provide a better service.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U30	The last issue registered on the ground, Mr Toom, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U31	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, As I understand it, in reply to the written question and in the Chamber today, you argued that the Estonian authorities are not engaged in algorithmic profiling. But as a minister, are you aware of profiling in other parts of the world, such as what several sources say is happening in the United States and also directly affecting the rights, freedom and privacy of Estonians on the Internet via the Internet?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U32	Thank you for your question. The questions referred to a specific agreement that allegedly has affected some countries in the world. In particular, an agreement named UKUS was mentioned. This contract is unknown to our experts and the Ministry of the Interior. We also have no information on the alleged interference you have mentioned with digital privacy in some of the major countries of the world. All I can say is that in the Republic of Estonia there are barricadees concerning the secret of the message, and I understand that you are interested in this issue, above all, only possible with the permission of the court. I will repeat this key point, which I have mentioned in my written speeches and which I have drawn attention to. In Estonia, for example, surveillance operations are carried out with the permission of the court, mostly by eavesdropping, about 1% in criminal cases, or 400-500 cases. 60% of these cases are serious cases of drug crime, 10% are professional crimes, 10% are crimes against property and 10% are crimes against persons. This tells us that there are few wiretapping cases, but the justification for eavesdropping in the resolution of these crimes is very high, because it is difficult to solve these crimes differently. So I dare say that eavesdropping in the Republic of Estonia will certainly not take place as some rumors claim to be spread.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U33	Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U34	The next question is from my colleague, Ester Tuiksole, to the Minister for the Environment, Keit Pentus-Rosimethus. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U35	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister of the Environment, I wish everyone a beautiful spring too! However, I would like to ask the following question. The Riigikogu is dealing with a draft Hunting Act which was to be adopted by 1 March s. a. I would like to ask why or why this bill has stopped being dealt with. This is not even on the agenda of the Environment Committee meetings.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U36	Good questioner! We have mutual wishes for a beautiful spring. With regard to the agendas of the Committee on the Environment, these will be endorsed by the Committee on the Environment, which, as far as I know, includes two representatives from your group as well. For which reason the Committee on the Environment has not for quite several weeks considered it possible to move forward with the debate on the draft Hunting Act, it is somewhat unclear to me too. There is no obstacle to a comprehensive draft Hunting Act coming to the second reading of the hall, from the ministry's side no more. We have also had consultations with the Members of the Commission between two readings. The Ministry of the Environment has proposed new compromise proposals to the Commission which would take down all these issues in the air and enable the process of completing this draft law, which has been extended to a very long time. I do encourage all Members, and especially all members of the Committee on the Environment, to move forward with the debate on this draft. Indeed, the need for a new hunting law is very great, it is expected. If this process is too long in Parliament, it will probably raise really legitimate questions as to why the work will still not be finished with the draft law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U37	Please, Mrs Tuiksoo, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U38	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister of the Environment, The current Hunting Act obliges the Minister for the Environment to form hunting areas. In order to fulfil this obligation, the law provided for a period of 10 years, so hunting areas complying with the requirements of the Hunting Act should have been established by 1 March 2013 at the latest. But we've gotten a bit longer to process the Hunting Act bill. The deadline was known to be 64 hunting areas, and hunting has stopped in them. What's going to happen to these regions?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U39	Thank you. You have, unfortunately, been given some misleading information. The right to use the hunting area has not stopped at all. Fixed-term permits have been issued in all areas (a total of 324 hunting areas in Estonia). The current Hunting Act, the current version of the Hunting Act, gives an exhaustive list of the reasons for the withdrawal or expiry of the permit to use the hunting area. That list is in the law, and that's what we're working on. In order to give these 64 regions, which are old rental hunting areas, certainty that there will be no confusion, it is critical that the new hunting law be adopted. The first dates of the authorisations expire in the summer of this year, at the beginning of July. In the meantime, the authorisation is valid under the law. The yacht is not enough, because from the beginning of February the yacht has ended for this year of hunting, but the permits are fully valid. I, too, have heard misleading information as if there were some kind of problem with authorisation, but there is no such thing. In order to avoid a problem, I urge you once again to proceed with the processing of the draft Hunting Act, because it also guarantees these 64 regions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U40	Please, my colleague, Mrs Tuiksoo, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U41	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! You must have reassured the hunters with that answer about the rental hunting grounds. But I'd like to ask you again. The Estonian Hunters' Society has requested the creation of a reserve for game ovens and the Centre Party has supported it. Why have the Ministry of the Environment, as well as the parties to the coalition, so far opposed the creation of such a reserve? Why don't you explain?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U42	Thank you. Again, there were two issues in one issue. A certain number of very influential members of the Estonian Hunters' Association have long held that a state fund should be set up, which in other words means wanting to impose an additional burden on the taxpayer, because the taxpayer should also take on compensation for hunting losses. I certainly cannot support this version. I am pleased that the majority of my good partners in the Group of the Fatherland and Res Publica are of the same opinion. However, as regards the compromise proposal sent to the Commission by the Ministry of the Environment, it provides that the law confirms that the Estonian Hunters Society or users of the hunting area themselves will be able to form such a reserve fund. The Society can itself agree on the principles on which the members of the Society will start to make contributions to the Fund. Above all, the idea of this fund would be to level out regional disparities. If hunters can do very well to prevent hunting damage in some areas of Estonia, the situation in the other region is not so good. Through this fund, these imbalances could be eliminated. This compromise includes, inter alia, the possibility that, if the reserve fund applies for support from the Environmental Investment Centre, which receives the annual fee paid by the hunters themselves, the Environmental Investment Centre would be able to grant this request within the framework of this annual fee. This is a compromise proposal. I think that this should be acceptable to everyone, including your group, who has proposed to set up a fund.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U43	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand very well that the Hunting Act is very close to the heart of the members of the Riigikogu, but on the basis of the principle of equal treatment, I am now giving the opportunity to ask only two questions registered on the spot. If we have time left, we can continue with questions on this issue. Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, thank you very much. Also a beautiful green spring for you! Here's the question. Greater landowners have announced that they are planning to ban hunting on their land. How do you view this call or idea from the point of view of the wild animal population?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U45	Thank you. Regardless of whether these are large-scale landowners or small-scale landowners and hunters in larger or smaller areas, I do not think that extreme action will help to reach a reasonable compromise. That was my position last year, too, when such an action was launched. I really hope that this year there will be no reason to continue this practice. In 2011, when I became Minister for the Environment and I took over this law from my predecessor, there was a lot of tension between the two parties in the air, and the first discussions on the text of the law were, frankly, pretty nervous. As time went on, there was more reason and understanding. I think that there are really not so many tensions and the need for extreme action is no longer topical. Of course, landowners in particular have a question as to why the processing of the new draft Hunting Act in Parliament is hindered. There are some landowners who feel that they have been deceived in some way. At the beginning, landowners were given a signal that they would be ready to respect and defend their rights in the same way, and now it is no surprise to anyone how intensively some very influential hunters are lobbying once again in the Riigikogu. I very much hope that there will be plenty of coldness and balance in this Parliament and that the draft Hunting Act will not go very far to one side or the other.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U46	The last issue registered on the ground, Mr Kaljuvee, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U47	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! According to the Estonian Constitution, game is a public property which should be used in a sustainable and prudent manner in the interests of the state and the people. According to the draft law submitted from the Ministry to the Riigikogu, game is intended to be transferred to the property of large landowners, to privatise game. I think that's why this bill is stuck. Why is the Ministry consistently pursuing such a policy?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U48	Thank you, good questioner! It seems to me that you have a different draft ahead of you, not what the government has submitted to Parliament. The main conflict, which the Chancellor of Justice has already pointed out during the previous parliamentary term, does indeed concern property rights, but above all land ownership rights. I think there's a good parallel worth bringing and thinking about. If you are the owner of the dwelling, in order for someone to come to your apartment and move there, he or she will logically need your permission. When we talk about hunting, the situation with regard to land is that, even if you are a landowner, the land that was then part of the Soviet Union was turned into one or another hunting area without your consent. The one who hunts and hunts on your land, you may know when it comes to a responsible and reasonable hunter, but you may not know. This bill, which we presented to Parliament with the government, provides the basis for the creation of agreements between hunters and landowners and the elimination of this Soviet situation. After the adoption of the new Hunting Act, the hunt will still be an asset without a master. In my opinion, the philosophy that passes through this draft Hunting Act is very clearly that game does not belong either to the landlord or to the hunter. Nor should we treat the forest as an animal farm where a hunter has the right to hunt animals, but it is the home of hunting animals and so it must be treated.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U49	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U50	The next question is from my colleague, Mr Anvelt, to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U51	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. At the beginning of March, the deadline for the appointment of the new Director-General of the PBGB expired. We all know it was almost three months. Currently, this country is run by important authorities. I dare say that there has not been a situation in Estonia in which there is no direct and concrete chief of police for a very long time. Such a suspension will certainly have a demotivating effect on all personnel. Are you so good as to inform us, members of the Riigikogu, as well as the public about the deadlines for you to come before the public, the Legal Affairs Committee and the government with the candidate for the new head of the PPP? What deadline have you given to the Ministry of the Interior Commission for a targeted search? What are the noises?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U52	Thank you very much for the question. It must be said that there has not been a situation for some time where the Director-General of the Police and Border Guard Board would have resigned before the deadline, as happened in November 2012, which is why all other operations have been carried out. Let me remind you of some history. At the end of last year, Raivo Küüt, after five years in charge of the Police and Border Guard Board, decided to resign. The date of departure was March 1. At the end of last year, the Riigikogu dealt with the amendment of the law which determines the requirements for the Director General's candidate. The law was amended precisely in order to make the requirements for the candidate more realistic. However, the reality is that the Police and Border Guard Board has grown into a job with 5500 employees as a result of the merger. As a result, it is reasonable to put the law's emphasis first on long-term management experience; this requirement did not exist in the past. These amendments entered into force on 1 January. The public competition was announced on 4 January, a few days after the law came into force. We're going ahead with the target search now. Like I said, we're not talking about the moons, we're talking about the weeks. It makes no sense to say specific deadlines today. We are moving forward as quickly as possible, taking enough time to select a suitable and strong leader for this largest public sector organisation in Estonia.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U53	Please, Mr Anvelt, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U54	Thank you, Madam President. I'm moving on to the head of the other force department now. The term of office of the Director General of the Defence Police Department falls in mid-June. There's less than three months left. We know that candidates for this post who come from outside the Agency must undergo a security check which will last at least three months. Here's my question: can you confirm that the candidate for the head of our most important security authority will not have the same problem as the head of the PBS? After June 15th, the defense police aren't going to be in charge, are they? This situation has never existed in the Republic of Estonia before. Can you confirm that there will be no such situation?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U55	Thank you for your question. When I answer this question, I can refer to history and talk about how and within what time the current Director General of the Defence Police was appointed. The term of office of the previous Director General of the Defence Police, Aldis Alus, expired on 15 June 2008. The Minister of the Interior sent his proposal to the Government on 20 May 2008. The Government of the Republic approved the current Director General of the Defence Police on 29 May 2008, the date of entry into force of the Decision was 16 June. This certainly does not mean that we should somehow follow the chronology that I have read now. I was merely giving an example of how things were done in 2008 and what were the deadlines then. That's exactly what I can say about the Director General of the Defence Police Department. Spring began today. I think that, at an early stage in spring, we will be clear here, and I will definitely report my proposal according to the law. The difference between the appointment of the Director General of the Police and Border Guard Board is that the opinion is requested not only from the Committee on Legal Affairs but also from the Special Committee on Security Supervision. The appointment of the Director-General of the Defence Police Department requires the opinion of two committees.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U56	Please, Mr Anvelt, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U57	Thank you. I still did not get a specific answer to the first and second questions. But I'm really worried about that. The new leader of the Eastern Prefecture is the Acting Commissioner, currently no commander appointed. The Head of the Information Technology and Development Centre of the Ministry of the Interior was also sought, if I am not mistaken, for seven or eight months and the management of such an important IT field was uncovered. There wasn't much talk about that in the public. Is it a recent trend at the Home Office that key personnel issues will be solved by a werewolf lobat? Who's responsible for this? According to my information, foreign media, such as the Finnish media, have already spoken about the twists in the choice of the Estonian Police Director General. Is that a problem for you or a ministry, a department problem? Why aren't these things working out? Who's in charge?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U58	Thank you for your question. The Ministry of the Interior has the highest number of employees, we have 10,000 employees. As far as the implementation of important posts is concerned, I think that the importance here is not quantity, but quality. These people must be able to carry out their work and improve the quality of the performance of one or other institution or of the performance of one or other function of their post. If it takes a certain time to fill one or another post, there are certainly reasons for doing so. The Head of the Information Technology and Development Centre of the Ministry of Interior has been in office since the beginning of February. It must be said that it is not easy to find a person in this position in a situation where the salary numbers of job holders in IT-related positions are running all the wage tables in our statistics. In addition, before I took office, the Ministry of the Interior had a lower number of managerial positions. It was one of the smallest ministries of all, with disproportionately little force, given the size of the area of government. We have set up a number of positions through structural reform in order to have a strategic view of the area of government, for example, be it the seats of deputy chancellors, as well as other positions. I have always said that I prefer finding a more capable person, even if it takes a little longer, to finding a person now, but the results of his work and his experience can't be sure to the end. As far as the Eastern Prefecture is concerned, finding the prefect is definitely the task of the new head of the PBGB. It would be irresponsible to appoint the Prefect until the new Director General of the PBGB has taken office.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U59	Now two issues registered on the spot. Starts with my colleague, Lembit Kaljuvee.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U60	Thank you, Madam Chairman. Good minister! In my opinion, the Minister should have a firm position that has developed over this long period of time, who should or could be on this post. In my opinion, Ken-Mart, you don't have a candidate or you don't have the guts to come up with it. So, what's it like? Do you have a candidate and when will we know the name of this man or woman?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U61	Thank you for your question. As I have explained, in 2009 the same government coalition elected the new director-general of the Police and Border Guard Board by means of an open competition. The evaluation committee pre-selected. That's exactly what we did this time. As you know, the public competition has failed, as many public competitions in other public authorities have not succeeded. Public competition is one way to find a suitable candidate. This is certainly one of the preferred ways, but if a good candidate is not found through the competition, then there is another way to move forward with a targeted search. As you know, the evaluation committee that I have set up, including, for example, the Secretary of State, the State Attorney General and the Senior Officials of the Ministry of the Interior, has proposed as a candidate one of the leaders of the force department, the head of the prison service, Priit Kama. Having held consultations with the good parliamentary forces, I did not submit a nomination for Priit Kama, because the possibility of political support was not high. We're moving on with the target search. I want to reach a solution and get a proposal for a candidate in weeks, not months. We are moving forward as quickly as possible, but we need to take sufficient time to make this choice reasonable and prudent.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U62	The last issue registered on the spot. Please, my colleague Marianne Mikko!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U63	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Minister! We have been a Member State of the European Union and NATO for nine years now. In Europe, it is generally the custom to do things systematically, but the exchange of managers takes place in Estonia, at least in your area of administration, a little strangely. It's known. Why do you have a bad planning job? Why is it that winter comes again unexpectedly?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U64	Thank you for your question. This issue was mainly driven by the competition of the Head of the Police and Border Guard Board. As a reminder for 2012, the Director-General of the Police and Border Guard Board did not leave office as the spring came today, which was known in advance, or as the summer will come in a few months, which is also known in advance. This departure was unexpected. This was reportedly due to the verification scandal in Ida-Virumaa, which revealed a disorderly management, it became apparent that the information did not move and the orders of the Police and Border Guard Board leaders were not followed. Consequently, the Police Director-General decided to leave before the deadline. The deadline would have come on 1 January 2015. As a result, other steps have been taken, which I have already described in reply to previous questions. I fully agree with you that systemic planning and management in the Estonian public sector must be improved. We must all aim to increase our systemicity, increase our capacity and, above all, improve the quality of our management. The Police and Border Guard Board is the second largest employer in Estonia, there are 5500 employees, of which only Eesti Energia is bigger. In my opinion, where the Estonian police have reached in 20 years, it is outstanding and it has been achieved with the help of very many policemen who do their job well. It's harder to go from here to here than you can compare, but it has to be done. In particular, it can be done with high-quality management, top management, his team and his subordinate police hierarchy.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U65	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U66	We have come to the last question. Please, Mr Tuus-Laul, the question of the Prime Minister's role as Minister of Defence, Urmas Reinsalu.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U67	Mr. Minister! I would remind you that there have been quite a lot of problems in recent days and weeks with one of our major commercial banks that has not been able to provide the service. There have been long-term breaks in card payments, problems in online and mobile banks, even cash withdrawals. These interruptions have been repeated, indicating that the problem is deeper. In addition, there are also problems in the company managing card payments. Have members of the government paid attention to this problem, do they even care? Estonia is subject to the Emergency Act, which states that cash service is a vital service.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U68	Thank you. This is a very legitimate issue and consumers' resentment is certainly understandable. With regard to ensuring the continuity of vital services established under the Emergency Act, paradoxically on 15 March, a few days ago, a regulation of Eesti Pank entered into force. In the case of vital services of banks, Eesti Pank establishes the operational continuity requirements for payment services. Not a few days passed, and on 19 March there was a failure of the IT systems in Swedbank. On Friday, the disturbance lasted from 2:00 p.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday, from 9:30 p.m. to 11:30 p.m. The barriers were created on servers located in the Republic of Estonia and the situation has stabilised today. The Financial Supervision Authority shall supervise Swedbank as a critical service provider in this regard. This regulation, which has been confirmed by the Governor of Eesti Pank, sets out a description of the payment service and the cash circulation, and lays down the performance requirements according to which the maximum duration of the interruption is 12 hours and in any case the critical service provider must have a business continuity plan, according to which it is possible to quickly restore the vital service to at least 70% of the average number of transactions. In this case, the vital service was restored within two or three hours. But, of course, this is an unpleasant case for people. The Financial Supervision Authority must analyse this in depth and, if necessary, make recommendations to the credit institution so that people do not suffer from these failures.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U69	Please, my colleague Marika Tuus-Laul, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U70	Thank you. Mr. Minister! The bank spokesperson has quite clearly said that these failures may continue to occur, but we know that banks should not be short of money. Let's see how much they still make profits, hundreds of millions of euros in net profit. Sometimes it seems that perhaps the country's 'cooperation' with commercial banks is too good. When could it happen that the state will leave commercial banks representing business interests, will stand for more people and will also give banks greater social responsibility in Estonia? What do you think?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U71	Thank you. In this case, it is certainly the responsibility of the State to supervise, establish rules and ensure that credit institutions comply with these rules when providing services. In this case, it is a checker and a controlled position. As regards the bank's own behaviour, Swedbank has made a statement that people can turn to them and that the bank is willing to compensate for justified civil damage. The emphasis is on the word'reasoned'. I asked the Consumer Protection Board whether they had been approached for this reason. The Head of the Consumer Protection Board confirmed that they have not been contacted. The Consumer Protection Board would certainly advise people who have suffered justified harm in the absence of such a type of service. I think this is also a question of the good practice of the Banking Union. We remember cases where the service has not been provided and the banks have said that they will in turn provide some kind of service free of charge in order to compensate for the failure to provide the service, for example, they have been able to make payments free of charge in the Internet Bank or something else. I am also calling on the banks in terms of the social dimension. Given the great impact of this service, it is clear that an individual has a very difficult and complex claim to compensate for civil damage, but banks could make their own code of good practice here. If, for technical reasons, the provision of a service is interrupted by measurable criteria, they could compensate for this damage to their good faith customers with a positive step that would have been announced in advance and established in good practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U72	Thank you very much, Minister. I will stop dealing with this issue because Question Time is over. Many thanks to the questioners, many thanks to the respondents! Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U73	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will start the 8th working week session of the 5th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. It is desirable to pass on drafts and enquiries. Starts with colleague Heljo Pikhof.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U74	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Happy Members of the Riigikogu! On behalf of five members of the Association of Social Democrats and Democrats of the Riigikogu, I am handing over the draft law. The draft has been drawn up for the purpose of extending the number of need-based family benefits to families whose income exceeds the limit of relative poverty, but who, after paying their housing costs, will have an amount below the subsistence threshold. The draft aims to put an end to the situation where some families, and especially those most in need, are deprived of need-based family support, namely families applying for income support. The draft aims to alleviate the growing inequalities and conflicting appreciation that further divides society. I think with this bill, we're going to liquidate the ditch of the government departments. I don't think they've planned the law like that, but it's turned out that way. The title of the draft is "Proposal to amend the National Family Benefits Act, the Social Welfare Act and the Labour Market Services and Benefits Act'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U75	Thank you. Please, colleague Margus Tsahkna!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U76	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Affairs Committee initiates a draft law supplementing § 20 of the Pharmaceutical Act aimed at regulating the export of medicinal products covered by a price agreement.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U77	Thank you very much. Please, colleague Priit Toobal!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U78	Dear Chairman, Ladies and gentlemen, A beautiful spring for all of you! Together with my good colleagues from the Centre Party Group, I will address an inquiry to Mr Rein Lang, Minister of Culture. The inquiry is largely based on a special report prepared by the National Audit Office on the financing of culture and further planning of cultural activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U79	Thank you. Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U80	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party, I have the honour to pass on a draft amending the law on the organisation of local government. Both the voluntary merger of local governments and the planned reorganisation of the administrative division of central territory may lead to a decrease in the number of local governments in Estonia, while the territory of local governments and the number of residents may increase. There is an increase in the number of municipalities made up of communities with different identities, many of which also had self-governing status in the long term or in the near future. In view of the changes described, the role of the municipality or district in the administrative management of the municipality is increasing and there is a need for the law to specify the circumstances relating to the management of the municipality or district. The purpose of the draft is to support the voluntary accession of municipalities, as well as to establish a legal basis for the implementation of democratic principles in the management of a multi-territorial structure unit, municipality or district, also within the local authority, at the level of the territorial structure unit. The content of the draft law is the incorporation of the concept of a municipality or district administrative body into the legislative space and the procedure for the appointment or dismissal of a municipality or district parent into the administrative body of a municipality or district. Please support the bill! That's a very good bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U81	Thank you. Please, Mr Karel Knight!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U82	Mr President of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the group of hunters and friends of hunters of the Riigikogu, including representatives of all political forces, we hand over the draft law supplementing the Hunting Act. By adopting the draft act as a law, we want to create clarity and rule out a situation where, as of 1 March 2013, the legality of hunting in rental hunting areas is questioned and challenged, in view of the fact that the state has not been able to carry out the tasks assigned to it for ten years. The draft creates legal clarity and eliminates the possibility of costly legal disputes on the part of the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U83	Thank you. On behalf of the board, I have adopted four draft laws and one inquiry. If the draft laws comply with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu, the Management Board will decide on their procedure within three working days. If an inquiry complies with the law, I shall immediately forward it to the addressee. Today I have nothing good to tell you except that it's already spring. Please, let's do the presence check! 91 members of the Riigikogu registered as present; no 10.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U84	We can start working on the points on today's agenda. The first point is the third reading of the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act and the Code of Civil Procedure initiated by the Government of the Republic. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. Let's go to the final vote. Ladies and gentlemen, since the adoption of this law requires a majority in the composition of the Riigikogu, please let us do the verification of presence again. 89 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 12. Ladies and gentlemen, I will put to the final vote the draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act and the Code of Civil Procedure, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 372. Please vote! 89 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, one against and no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U85	The third reading of the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act and the State Assets Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Do the representatives of the political groups want to negotiate? I would like to ask my colleague, Kalev Kallo, to speak as a representative of the Centre Party Group. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U86	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, Today we have reached the third reading of bill 289. According to the explanatory memorandum to the draft proposal, the organisation of the acquisition of land subject to conservation restrictions to the State should become fairer, better, more transparent, more traceable, clearer and understandable, and the targeted use of state resources should be ensured. Exactly the same slogans we heard years ago when we discussed the amendments to the Nature Conservation Act initiated by Minister Jaanus Tamkivi. I am thinking of the changes that put an end to the land exchange in its classic sense. Did the minister at the time lie or didn't the whole complexity of the processes? Last Wednesday, a number of questions were raised in this Chamber, starting with serious doubts as to whether the state has the capacity to ensure that the new arrangements for the acquisition of much-fledged land by the Minister of the Environment are implemented within a reasonable period of time. There was doubt, among other things, that this change could cause people who have been in the queue for a long time, some to shift in line since 2004, so that in the worst case they could arrive in ten years' time. It is obvious that, in the majority of Parliament, the Minister for the Environment has been certain from the outset that the draft, which he has initiated for the ultimate elimination of the worst and for the restoration of justice, will become the law in its desired form, and that the land will remain the only method of compensation for the conservation restrictions on land, the acquisition of restricted land for money. In the 2013 budget, the amount foreseen in the state budget for the acquisition of land subject to conservation restrictions was reduced from EUR 3.2 million in 2012 to EUR 1.5 million. According to the explanatory memorandum to the draft law, the total value of the land to be acquired is EUR 40 million, so if the funding remains at the same level, the latter will have to wait almost 27 years in order. We have never experienced the condescending attitude of the coalition towards our fellow citizens before, but the 27-year waiting period is undoubtedly a new level. I believe that fellow citizens who have been driven by a long waiting period will prove to be just as resourceful. I am quite convinced that the effects of this draft becoming a law have not been assessed in substance. The Ministry of the Environment and the Minister for the Environment, who stood as a wall for this draft, either lacks an understanding of the real logic of the processes or attempts are being made to achieve other goals if we have been tried to explain here. Although approximately EUR 3 million per year has been allocated from the state budget for the acquisition of nature conservation land in recent years, the shortening of the so-called waiting list is mainly due to the possibilities of offsetting used in public auctions. The state land to be acquired is paid for by nature conservation land. The possibility of offsetting has also kept the price levels achieved in the auctions conducted by the Land Administration high, especially in the case of forest land. In a situation where the owners of nature conservation countries mainly resident in Estonia lose the opportunity to pay for the land sold by the state with the land they own and the banks are not very willing to lend to our people and companies for the acquisition of land, the land is acquired by the subsidiaries of foreign companies here and at much lower prices. The final auction prices will also decrease as the number of participants in the state auction is reduced, while the value of land with conservation restrictions will not be reduced. Thus, if this draft is to become a law, the state will have to sell much more state land to acquire land with the same amount of conservation restrictions, up to 30 to 40% in the case of forest land. Is this what the draft explanatory memorandum stresses to ensure the targeted use of state budget resources? I don't think so. If the state does not exponentially increase the funds allocated to the acquisition of nature conservation land at least four times, compared to this year, the order will not even move forward at the current rate, as well as at an unsatisfactory rate, and for many of our fellow citizens, the compensation they receive during their lifetime will remain a bright blue dream. I repeat: the shortening of the queue to almost half of the original has, in my opinion, been due to the possibility of offsetting used in the auction. Thanks to this possibility, people who have not had the opportunity to participate in the auction have moved faster in the queue. If this possibility is lost, their movement will slow down in order. There is no point in thinking that all the forest and other companies mentioned in the explanatory memorandum will now fall backwards in order. Whoever moves to the queue is not clear for today, it has not been analysed in the drafting of the draft. The state will receive less money in the auction, and the state budget will have to be multiplied in order to achieve a reasonable rate of reimbursement. In the end, I am convinced that the aims of this draft will not be achieved and, in time, we will be working again on the draft, which will make the situation created once again clearer, more transparent, etc. The initiators of the draft and the coalition members could think about who they are acting for and whether it would not be more appropriate to stick to the system set up by the Reform Party itself rather than to constantly change, in order not to throw the baby away with the washing water. As stated above, a further draft on this issue will be processed after a period of time when it has become a dead end. On this basis, the Centre Party Group will not take part in this ad hoc interim vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U87	Thank you very much, Mr Kallas. No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations. Let's go to the final vote on the bill. Dear Riigikogu, I will vote to the final vote on the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act and the State Assets Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic, 289. Please vote! 50 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, 20 against, no abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U88	The second reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Construction of a Special Committee against Corruption' submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs begins. I would like a presentation by Väino Linde, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U89	Honourable Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, Good chairman of the sitting! Let me remind you that the purpose of the draft being discussed today is to create a s. a Special Committee against Corruption in the Riigikogu for the performance of the duties arising from the new anti-corruption law that will be in force on 1 April. The draft was reviewed by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs on Monday 18 March as a second item on the agenda for its meeting. It has to be said that an amendment to this draft had been tabled by the Social Democrats, ladies and gentlemen. The amendment by the Social Democratic Party Group intended to replace a good colleague, Kalev Kotkas, with Helmen Hunt, as well as a good colleague. The Committee on Constitutional Affairs supported the proposed amendment. In addition, we reviewed the wording changes made by the language editors. They were also approved by the Commission. We have included in the draft a reference that the current draft on the replacement of members of the Special Committee on the application of the Anti-Corruption Act must be repealed. Ultimately, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs proposes that the large Chamber of the Riigikogu adopt the draft as a decision. Then we have made a worthy contribution to the ongoing process of starting spring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U90	Thank you very much, Mr Linde. You have questions. Mr Peep Aru, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good waitress! It is good practice that, when an amendment is tabled, the reason why it is presented is usually also mentioned and, of course, the possible effects of this amendment are mentioned. Is that what happened now?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U92	Thank you, a good colleague in both the Riigikogu and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. I dare say that this time the Committee on Constitutional Affairs did not go very far to find out the reasons why colleagues from the Group of the Social Democratic Party made such a proposal. But I believe that they certainly had a reason to put forward this proposal, and the special committee is going to do its job very well.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U93	Please, Mr Rein Aidma!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U94	Thank you, Mr President. A good colleague from the Committee on Constitutional Affairs! You mentioned as one of the arguments why this draft should be adopted as a decision that it would contribute to the spring start process. Can you explain that to me in a few sentences?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U95	Thank you, my good colleague, for a good question. I believe that, just as spring makes everything whiter, warmer and also more serious in nature, the Riigikogu's decision to set up a special anti-corruption commission in this field, which this committee can call its field of work, could do so.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U96	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Linde. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. On the draft law, as my colleague has already said, an amendment has been tabled from the Group of the Social Democratic Party, which has been fully taken into account by the Steering Committee. We can go to the final vote on the draft decision of the Riigikogu. Dear Riigikogu, I will final vote on the draft decision of the Riigikogu 'Constitution of a Special Committee against Corruption' submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs 380. Please vote! 70 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U97	The second reading of the draft Act amending the Act on Fire Safety initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I would like a presentation by Peter Võsa, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs of the Speaker's Board!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U98	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear colleagues! We have before us the draft law amending the Fire Safety Act, number 363. As far as its content is concerned, the aim of the draft is to correct the problems encountered in practice and to ensure greater legal clarity for persons in order to comply with the provisions of the Fire Safety Act. One of these problems makes it necessary to clarify in the Fire Safety Act that, for example, when smoking in a building or using an open flame, fire hazards must be avoided. The Riigikogu Legal Affairs Committee discussed this draft law on Monday 11 March. a. The meeting began at 11 a.m. and ended at 11.30 a.m., led by Marko Pomerants and Tiina Kärsna. Kalle Laane, Andres Anvelt, Igor Gräzin, Kalle Jents, Marika Tuus-Laul, Neeme Suur, Peeter Võsa, Siim Kabrits and Valdo Randpere, and advisor Linnar Liivamägi, Head of Adviser and Secretariat Raini Laide took part. This was the third item on the agenda for the meeting. Adviser to the Minister of the Interior Mariko Jõeorg, Head of the Department of Rescue and Crisis Management of the Ministry of the Interior, Priit Laaniste, and Adviser to the same department, Martin Lambing, were invited to the meeting. No amendments were tabled to this draft law. It was decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda today, 20 March 2013 (consensually), to propose that the second reading be closed (also consensually) and, when the second reading is closed, to send the draft to the third reading on 27 March. a. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U99	Thank you very much, Mr Peter Võsa. Please, my colleague Andres Jalak!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U100	Thank you. Honourable waitress! Paragraph 5 is supplemented by paragraph 4 according to which the use of open flame and smoking must prevent the generation of fire. Well, that's pretty clear to the hedgehog. What will change with this change in reality? Was there a debate in the Commission that could be taken?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U101	As regards the wording of the law, there was no discussion of the measures. But the clear purpose of this law is to avoid recessive behaviour when people smoke unscrupulously at home and go around recklessly with open fire, whatever that means, either coming into the room with a torch or making a fire on the floor. If this happens as a result of an accident, it is now possible to punish the person who has repeatedly behaved in this way and whose behaviour is reclusive.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U102	Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U103	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, I want to clarify what I heard at first reading. If we accept this change, and if there is a fire from careless smoking or open flames, such as the Christmas tree, but this apartment is insured, does this change give the insurance company a reason not to pay the insurance sum? If I have understood this correctly, perhaps there could also be information on whether the Commission has asked the officials concerned how widespread this practice is in the world.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U104	Thank you. In this exact wording, the Commission did not discuss this issue, nor did it address how this problem has been addressed in other countries. But one thing is clear: just as no one today sits drunk and thinks it's reasonable, you might think it's just as reasonable that somewhere in the room or under the barn at the Christmas tree, where drinks are taken, there's no smoke, and that's what sensible behavior is.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U105	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Peter Võsa. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. There are no amendments to the draft law. Second reading of bill 363 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U106	The second reading of the draft Act amending the Chemicals Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask for a presentation by Jaanus Tamkivi, Member of the Environment Committee of the Speaker's Board.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U107	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Environment Committee discussed this draft law at its meeting on 11 March. The item was chaired by the chairman of the committee, who took a brief look at the progress of the procedure. As no amendments to the draft law were received (the deadline for submitting proposals was 27 February) and only linguistic and technical changes have been made before the second reading, which do not change the substance of the draft proposal, the committee president's proposal was to proceed immediately to the procedural decisions. It was decided to propose to the Riigikogu to take this bill to second reading today, to propose to the Riigikogu plenary to stop the second reading 350 and, when the second reading is completed, to propose to the Riigikogu board that the draft 350 third reading be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on Wednesday, 27 March and then to adopt it as a law. All these decisions were taken by the Commission in a consensual manner. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U108	Thank you very much, Mr Tamkivi. There are no questions for you. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. There were no amendments. Second reading of bill 350 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U109	The second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Medicines, the Penal Code and the Law on State Fees initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. Maret Maripuu, member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Speaker's Office, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U110	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Riigikogu's plenary session ended the first reading of the draft law amending the Act on Medicines, the Penal Code and the State Fees Act initiated by the Government of the Republic on 30 January 2013. No amendments were tabled by members of the Riigikogu, political groups or committees. However, representatives of the manufacturers and sellers of medicines and patients associations, as well as the Ministry of Social Affairs, sent their proposals on the draft. The Committee on Social Affairs discussed the draft at its meetings on 21, 26 and 29 February and 11 and 18 March. The Social Affairs Committee accompanied the discussions and invited representatives of the Association of Estonian Pharmacies, the Estonian Patients' Advisory Board, the Estonian Drug Wholesaler Association, the Estonian Pharmacists' Association and the Ministry of Social Affairs to present their proposals to its meeting. At the meeting of the Commission on 21 February, Dagmar Rüütel, Head of the Medicine Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, Legal Adviser of the Legal Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs Tanel Terase, Inspector General of the Inspection Department of the Medicines Agency Hille Kask, and Legal Adviser Andrus Varki, pharmacist Helve Monvelt, representative of the Association of Pharmacists of Estonia, Mari Krass, representative of the Estonian Association of Medicinal Products Manufacturers, Riho Tapfer, Head of the Association of Estonian Pharmacists, Kadri Tammepuu, member of the Board of the Association of Estonian Pharmacists and Kaido Kolk and Kadri Kiuru. The Estonian Patient Counsellor proposed that the law be amended so that medicines should not be located in the pharmacy on emergency shelves and the display of medicines in the pharmacy should not allow the client's exposure to the medicinal product when selecting the medicinal product. The same principle was supported by a representative of the Estonian Association of Pharmacists. The Committee on Social Affairs considered this to be an important issue, but the aim of draft 332 is primarily to transpose Directive 2011/62/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council and the proposal of the patients' advisory board do not directly relate to this draft. The Commission found that, since a large number of pharmacies have created the possibility for customers to access over-the-counter medicines directly, this issue needs to be further explored and impact analysis carried out by the parties and will be brought back to it in the future. The Committee on Social Affairs is aware of the concerns of producers caused by the entry into force of the new paragraph 14 of § 1 of the draft as from 2 July 2013. This paragraph is supplemented by § 17 (5) to (8) of the Pharmaceutical Act, which is directly derived from the Directive. The amendment stipulates that only an active substance whose production complies with EEA good manufacturing practice or equivalent may be imported. The purpose of the requirement is to ensure that the production of the imported active substance complies with the good manufacturing practices in force in the European Economic Area agreed to ensure the quality of the active substances and medicinal products. Consequently, the requirement that the imported active substance must be accompanied by a written declaration from the competent authority of the exporting non-Community country showing that the manufacturer of the imported active substance is subject to requirements at least equivalent to those of Community manufacturing practice and that the competent authority of the exporting country regularly checks the manufacturer concerned. The deadline for the entry into force of this provision of 2 July is no longer far from the date of entry into force. The European Commission, involving national pharmaceutical agencies, has intensified the inspection of manufacturing sites for active substances outside the European Economic Area. The aim is to obtain as many active substances as possible on the list or to agree with the competent authorities of the exporting countries on the issue of endorsements. The European Commission will keep up-to-date information on the extension of the list on its website and the Agency has also informed Estonian medicines manufacturers about this source of information. However, the transition to the new regime is quite steep and it is not excluded that there will be any disruption in the supply of active substances and therefore, in turn, disruption in the production and supply of medicinal products. This is not just Estonia's problem; it is faced by all pharmaceutical producers in the European Union. Estonia cannot set a different date of entry into force, but we hope that the European Commission will be able to do its best to solve the problem. In the Commission, there were serious discussions on subsection 33 (22) of the Pharmaceutical Act, as set out in subsection 35 of the draft § 1, according to which medicinal products must comply with the marketing authorisation in force in the Member State of destination when sold at a distance to another Member State of the European Economic Area. This wording was also contested by the Estonian Association of Pharmacies, which proposed the following wording: 'In the case of distance sales of medicinal products to another EEA Member State, the medicinal product must have a marketing authorisation valid in the Member State of destination. The distance sale of medicinal products to Estonia from another Member State of the European Economic Area must meet all the requirements of the legislation in force in Estonia for the medicinal product and its packaging. The sale or delivery of a medicinal product to a citizen of the Republic of Estonia and/or a person resident in the Republic of Estonia in another Member State of the European Economic Area shall not be considered as distance sales to another Member State of the European Economic Area. 'The question arose as to why a resident of the country where the Internet pharmacy is located, who, for example, is temporarily present in another Member State, should be supplied with a medicinal product corresponding to the valid marketing authorisation of the country of temporary residence. The Commission discussed at length the possible amendment of § 33 (22) of the Pharmaceutical Act, so that a citizen of the Republic of Estonia and/or a person whose permanent residence is in the Republic of Estonia would be able to receive the medicinal product abroad even if the medicinal product is not authorised in the Member State of destination. For example, we considered the following wording: 'A medicine for distance sales in another EEA country is not considered to be delivered to persons to whom a medicinal product has been issued on the basis of a prescription issued in Estonia or to whom a medicinal product is required to understand information and advice on medicinal products in accordance with the Estonian marketing authorisation. ' It was also worded as follows: 'If the Member State of destination does not restrict rights, a citizen who is away from Estonia is allowed to deliver a medicinal product purchased in Estonia from a person holding a right to distance sales and marketed in Estonia. ' However, one or the other option is not compatible with the Directive and cannot be recommended. The Legal and Analytical Department of the Chancellery of the Riigikogu took the same position and we asked for advice and opinion. Article 85c (1) (c) of Directive 2001/83/EC provides unambiguously that medicinal products sold in Member States must comply with a marketing authorisation valid in that Member State in all respects, including the labelling of the packaging. The marketing authorisation shall also confirm the summary of product characteristics, the package leaflet and the label, the non-conformity of which is considered non-compliance with the marketing authorisation. The Estonian Association of Pharmacies proposed a transitional period for the provision of distance sales of medicinal products and the date of its entry into force on 1 July 2013. The Committee on Social Affairs considered that the time for the entry into force of the provisions on distance sales of medicinal products would not be changed, as the prohibition of distance sales of medicinal products has already been known since the relevant ruling of the European Court of Justice in 2003. Providing for the planned sale of medicinal products at a distance does not oblige pharmacies to engage in distance sales, but creates opportunities and requirements. Therefore, if the pharmacy is interested in the sale of medicinal products at a distance, it can start at its own convenience. The Association of Estonian Pharmacists pointed out that the restriction laid down in the new paragraph 21 of § 33 of the Pharmaceutical Act, according to which the delivery of medicinal products ordered at a distance by sale is permitted only through postal or freight services, is not justified. The Union also proposed to allow the pharmacist to deliver the medicinal products himself. The Commission supported this proposal. The Ministry of Social Affairs proposed that the authorisation of the marketing authorisation holder or his representative should be required for the export of medicinal products covered by a price agreement concluded under the Health Insurance Act. It was also proposed that, in the interests of the protection of public health, the Agency should be entitled to prohibit the export of the medicinal product. The Estonian Traders' Association opposed this proposal because it restricts the free and unrestricted movement of goods. The Ministry of Social Affairs and the Estonian Medicines Agency explained that the proposal is in the interests of Estonian pharmaceutical users, as it ensures that medicines are available in Estonia in a consistent and uninterrupted manner and at a price level that has been accepted for Estonian health insurance. The Agency gave problematic examples of drug shortages due to their export from Estonia. However, it was stressed that any restriction on the export of medicinal products by either the Marketing Authorisation Holder or the Agency should be duly justified. The Commission expressed its support for the proposal of the Ministry of Social Affairs, but the Commission did not propose the amendment, as the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications took the view that, in the light of § 43 of the Product Compliance Act and Directive 98/34/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council, the abovementioned amendments should be notified to the European Commission and other Contracting States. However, the procedure provides for a three-month consultation period. As the purpose of this draft is primarily to transpose Directive 2011/62/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council into the Estonian legal area, the Commission decided to initiate a separate draft on the above question. The Committee on Social Affairs decided to propose 11 amendments to the draft. Allow me to introduce them. Amendment 1 complements the draft with the provisions amending the Law on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and their Precursors. The amendment relates to paragraph 32 (new paragraph 31) of the draft, according to which § 31 (2) of the Pharmaceutical Act is repealed. Since, according to this amendment to the Pharmaceutical Act, pharmacies do not need a separate authorisation from the Agency for the treatment of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances and medicinal products containing them, i.e. all pharmacies must be prepared to order and offer such medicinal products upon receipt of a prescription or subscription form, paragraphs 6, 7, 8 and 12 of § 4 of the Law on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and their Precursors are no longer up-to-date and are repealed. It is also appropriate to amend Article 2 (5) of the Law on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and their Precursors, by deleting the word 'aptecs' in the current provision. Since the draft law amends more than three laws, the title of the bill also needs to be amended. Amendments 2, 3, 5, 6, 7 and 10 are drafting or technical corrections. Amendment 4 removes the restriction that the delivery of medicines ordered at a distance is permitted only through postal or freight services. Amendment 8 amends the deadline for the submission of data and documents required by § 1151 of the Pharmaceutical Act as regards the amendment of the date of entry into force of the Act, as set out in § 1 65 (new point 64) of the draft, and sets out two months after the entry into force of this Act. Amendment 9 introduces provisions for the entry into force of the draft provisions relating to good marketing practice, the logo of the website for distance sales of medicinal products and the safety features of the packaging of medicinal products into the implementing provisions of the Pharmaceutical Act and supplements the Pharmaceutical Act with § 1152. Amendment 11 amends the provisions on the entry into force of the draft. On entry into force of § 1 (31) of the draft law, three months will be left for a transitional period, which means that from 1 July 2013 all pharmacies must be prepared to sell narcotic drugs and psychotropic drugs on prescription. The Committee on Social Affairs unanimously took the following decisions: to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda on 20 March and to propose to the Assembly that the second reading be closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U111	Thank you very much, Mr Maripuu, for a very thorough presentation. There are no questions for you. Do colleagues want to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. As has been said, 11 amendments have been tabled to the draft law. Let's take a look at them. The first, second, third, fourth, fifth and sixth amendments have been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs and have been fully taken into account. The seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh amendments have also been tabled by the Committee on Social Affairs and have been fully taken into account. The second reading of bill 332 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U112	The second reading of the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I would like Annely Akkermann, member of the Environment Committee of the Speaker's Board, to present this report.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U113	Good President! Happy spring, ladies and gentlemen. Draft Act 287 amending the Nature Conservation Act was accepted into Riigikogu proceedings on 2 October 2012 by decision of the Executive Board No 143 and the Environmental Commission was appointed as the commission. The Committee on the Environment has discussed this draft on a total of six occasions, and the draft has been dealt with four times between the first and second readings. The first reading of the draft law amending the Nature Conservation Act was completed on 24 October and the deadline for submitting amendments was set at 16 a.m. on 7 November 2012. No amendments to the draft were tabled. Between the first reading and the second reading, on 11 December and 28 January, the draft opinions of the Chancellor of Justice, the Nõva Municipality Government, the Estonian Private Forests Association and the Estonian Hunters Society were heard at the meetings of the committee. During the Commission's meetings on 12 February and 12 March, discussions were held on the form of the decision to grant protection to a natural object. At its meeting on 12 March, the Committee on the Environment decided to propose to the Riigikogu plenary that the second reading of the draft 287 be completed and that when the second reading of the draft is completed, the draft be sent to the third reading. I will give a brief overview of the amendments that arose at the meetings of the Commission. I'm talking about what's behind them. The most frequent debate, which started from quite contradictory points of view, was on Amendments 1 and 2. In the judgment of the Supreme Court of 31 May 2011 in Case 3-3-1-85-10, the form of the decision granting protection provided for in § 10 (1) of the Nature Conservation Act was declared incompatible with the Constitution. According to the reasoning of the Supreme Court, the constitutionality of the form of the regulation was caused by the fact that it is not clear enough when making a decision in this form to guarantee the rights of persons in the proceedings for granting protection and it is not clear whether and in what way the person is able to challenge that decision. A regulation similar to §10 (1) of the Nature Conservation Act is included in subsections 2, 6 and 7 of the same section, therefore these paragraphs must also be amended. The restrictions resulting from the introduction of the safeguard regime can be classified as follows: Firstly, the rules restricting the exercise of ownership in immovable property. These include a ban on construction, a ban on the management of felled forest, a ban on changing the tillage and other restrictions of this kind, which are aimed directly at changing the physical condition of the property through activities which are generally justified only by the owner of the property. Such restrictions correspond most clearly to the concept of general arrangements. Secondly, there are restrictions on everyone. This includes additional restrictions on the right to stay in the forest and to harvest forest products. These restrictions are intended for any person who may, as a general rule, exercise those rights independently of ownership in other cases provided for in the legislation. Due to the fact that the restrictions are directed towards the abstract circle of persons, such restrictions do not, in a classical sense, correspond to the characteristics of the general arrangement. Thirdly, restrictions on public goods, especially roads and water bodies. These include, in particular, restrictions on economic activity (fishing, navigation, water construction) and restrictions on movement. These restrictions are always directed towards the abstract circle of persons and do not, in a classical sense, correspond to the characteristics of the general arrangement. Fourthly, the restrictions imposed on state land. The restrictions imposed on the State as owner of the land have characteristics of general organisation, but are essentially imposed on itself by the administrative body and there is no need to apply administrative procedures to protect the rights of persons. For the reasons set out above, the rules governing the State land, which are intended to restrict the rights of individuals, are a general rule rather than a general arrangement. The following solutions were considered during the draft procedure. Firstly, to allow protection arrangements to be established only by means of an order. The safeguard arrangements shall include provisions of a general arrangement. In the case of such solutions, the administrative act provided for in the Administrative Procedure Act is subject to regulation. Where the protection regime would only be established by an individual act, provisions of a general standard should be laid down in an individual act where an area is granted protection. This solution was to be avoided. Secondly, to allow the protection regime to be established only by means of a regulation. As a general rule, the protection arrangements contain provisions of a general standard. In the case of such solutions, in order to ensure the protection of the interests of private owners, the possibility of contesting the regulations should be introduced in order to contest the provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure of a general organizational nature contained in the rules of protection. This would be unprecedented in the Estonian legal order and it was therefore wanted to avoid this solution. Failure to determine the type of act in the Act obliges the Government of the Republic, the Minister of the Environment and the Council of the Local Government to choose the type of act that is compatible with the content of the Act, taking into account the Nature Conservation Act, the Administrative Procedure Act and the judgment of the General Assembly of the Supreme Court of 31 May 2011. If the author of the act chooses the wrong type and is challenged, the act shall be declared unlawful before the courts. Amendment 3 concerns the blocking of the shoreline. In § 1 of the Bill, point 13 is deleted, according to which a protected area, a protected area, a permanent habitat and a protected zone of an individual object of the protected nature may not be authorised to block the shoreline without the consent of the manager of the protected natural object. Previously, the draft stipulated that the consent of the local government was also required, but during the debate it was decided that duplication of activities would not be necessary to lay down where the consent of the owner of the protected natural object already exists. Amendments 4, 5 and 9 relax the ban on additional feeding of wild game on a protected natural site and provide for the possibility of additional feeding with the consent of the manager. As a result, the Nature Conservation Act retains the ban on the feeding of wild boar in the permanent habitat of the wild boar. Amendment 6 states that it is not possible to apply for support for nature conservation works for semi-natural communities for which compensation is claimed for bird damage. Amendment 8 states that the notification of the obligation of defence does not need to be delivered to the State Forest Management Centre. Amendments 10 and 11 relate to the new date of entry into force of the draft act, i.e.: a May 1st. The amendments have been drafted on the basis of a proposal from the Ministry of the Environment. At its meeting on 12 March, the Commission made procedural decisions: to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the second reading of the draft 287 be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on 20 March or today (consensus), to propose to the Riigikogu plenary that the second reading of 287 be stopped (also consensually) when the second reading of the draft 287 is closed, to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the third reading be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on Wednesday, 27 March 2013 (also a consensual decision), and to propose that the Riigikogu plenary put the draft to the 287 final vote and to adopt it as a law (this decision was also consensual). That's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U114	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U115	Thank you, Mr President. Dear waitress, The honourable waitress certainly knows a nature conservation object such as Tallikõsõ and has heard about the establishment of this target zone. Is this draft law in any way regulated in a situation where the protection of a natural object is to be strengthened, i.e. the intention is to establish a targeted protection zone, but the owners do not agree? How is the relationship between the state and the owner regulated? In this situation, the state has simply said to its owners: 'Hello, I am the state, and I am setting the rules here. ' There has been no monitoring of the compensation mechanism or anything like that. How will these inconsistencies be resolved in such a case?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U116	This bill is designed to regulate the nature conservation process more accurately. As far as the Tallikõsõ area is concerned, it is regulated here that there is a fundamental dispute as to whether the object will be taken into consideration for nature conservation by a general arrangement or regulation. It is important that those whose territory is intended to be protected by nature have the right to complain. In the event of the entry into force of this draft law, they will have the opportunity to challenge this decision within the framework of the administrative procedure. Another important aspect of this draft is the setting of a time limit. If the procedure is in progress, for example, building permits and other procedures relating to economic activity in the region may be suspended for a period not exceeding 28 months. There are procedures in Estonia that last for years, and then in areas that have not actually been protected, other economic activities have been stopped indefinitely and for a very long time.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U117	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U118	Thank you, dear waitress. I have another question. When a natural object is protected or these conditions are strengthened, there will be public consultations and certain proposals can be clearly expressed by the owners. After all, the amendment regulates that all proposals and objections must be made very clear. If these proposals are recorded and include, for example, the Chancellor of Justice's position on this process, will the State be obliged to propose to the Chancellor of Justice to analyse the situation and give its opinion on whether the state is working properly with their owners?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U119	By becoming a law, this bill allows the owners to turn to the administrative court to defend their interests. The State is still obliged to state the reasons for the extreme need to be granted protection. If we go a little outside the framework of this draft, I would say that I believe that there is a great deal of opposition to the conservation of areas, precisely because the areas and areas are protected on paper and the owners are not compensated for the restrictions imposed on the use of their property. After all, the 289 bill that was previously passed as a law is related to the exact same problem that property is subject to major restrictions, but the compensation must wait 10 to 15 years.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U120	Good waitress, thank you! No further questions. Is there a desire to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. Eleven amendments have been received for draft 287, all of which are from the lead committee. Let's start reviewing them. The first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh amendments. We have examined the amendments. The position of the commission is that the second reading should be terminated. The second reading is closed and the seventh item is dealt with.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U121	Let's move on to item eight. First reading of the draft Museum Act initiated by the Government of the Republic begins. I ask the Minister of Culture Rein Lang of the Riigikogu to present the speech chair!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U122	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! It is a pleasure to announce that the Government has received a very good draft from the Riigikogu. The Ministry of Culture started preparing the draft Act amending the Museum Act already at the end of 2011. The reason was that the Museum Act adopted in 1996 and the regulations adopted on the basis thereof no longer meet the modern requirements of museum collection management, that information on museums is not available online and that the use of state-owned museum collections for other museums is unduly restricted. On the basis of the conclusions of the intention to develop, it was considered that the most appropriate solution for amending the current law, which includes both the addition of the law and partial deregulation, is the presentation of the full text of the new museum law. On 7 February this year, the Government of the Republic approved the new draft museum law and sent it to the Riigikogu for discussion. Today, at the plenary session of the Riigikogu, the draft museum law at first reading has four main objectives, which I will briefly present. Compared to the 1996 Museum Act, these are the major changes. Firstly, the draft sets out the requirements for drawing up collection principles, which aim to improve the quality of collection decisions and thus museum collections, and to direct museums to explain their decisions to the general public. Several collections of Estonian museums have grown unfathomable as a result of long-term subjective collection decisions, containing, among other things, obligatoryly recorded material for museums during the Soviet period. In total, there are about 8.6 million museums in all Estonian museums, including 7.6 million museums in state museums. The current museum law gives museums full freedom of substance to decide whether to register as a museum and does not require justification for their decisions. Although the recipient of the estate or the recipient of the gift has the right to refuse to accept the property, the donor of the items is often chosen and 'collective decision' instead of the museum, because there are no clearly defined principles to which the museum could refer as a justification for its rejection decision. Secondly, the draft law regulates the introduction of the museum information system MuIS. The introduction of the information system is necessary to improve the efficiency of the system of record keeping of museums and to make the information in museums freely available to the public online. With a large amount of museums, there's an information management problem. How can you get an exhaustive overview of the information in museums? How can the use of museum collections be made easier both for museum workers and for the general public? How to make the information related to the museums analysed and examined? In order to achieve a modern and efficient working arrangement, it was decided to take account of museums and museums' holdings from paper to electronic information system. Thirdly, the draft extends the circle of persons who can be granted access to the management contract of the state-owned museum collection. This will improve the daily functioning of museums and increase their development potential. The aim of the amendment is to enable the current legal form of state and municipal museums to be changed and to improve the daily functioning of museums and to expand their development possibilities. The current law allows only the use of the central museum or the county museum (which in practice has ceased to exist since 2008) to be granted only to foundations established by the state or with the participation of the state. According to the Ministry of Culture, there is no reason to restrict the use of museum collections in their current form. The foundation, as a private legal entity, has certain advantages in organising economic activities compared to the State and Municipal Museum, which is expected to create better opportunities for exhibiting and supplementing the museum collection. In addition, the form of the foundation allows a two-tier governance model with a much simpler structure and a specific allocation of powers and responsibilities. Fourthly, the new draft Act on Museums provides for the establishment of an international exhibition compensation system in order to activate the international exhibition exchange. The draft sets out the conditions for the reimbursement by the State of the damage suffered by the holder of the international exhibition. The exhibition's compensation system allows museums to organise more high-quality outdoor exhibitions. At present, several such exhibitions have not taken place because of too much insurance premiums or because the owner of the museums does not accept private insurance. According to the draft, the state museum must ensure the preservation of works sent from abroad to Estonia for exhibition. If the works are damaged, the state guarantees reimbursement from state budget funds, the same principle applies to Estonian exhibitions abroad. The system does not apply automatically to all exhibitions, but only in the case of an exhibition of significant historical or artistic value, state museums and museums acting as a foundation established by the state can apply for compensation for damages. The new Museum Act applies in particular to museums established by the State and using a state-owned museum collection. The law applies to municipal museums, public legal persons museums and private museums only if these museums keep records of museums in the museum information system MuIS, a system that complies with the international documentation principle. The use of MuIS is free of charge for museums, but the precondition for joining is that the museum's activities comply with the functions set out in the Museum Act. This means that the museum collects, preserves, explores, mediates, and exhibits the spiritual and material heritage of man and his environment for educational, scientific, and experience purposes. Among other things, the draft specifies the procedures for granting operating grants to municipal museums, public legal persons museums and private museums so that all museums, regardless of their ownership form, have equal access to state budget support. As a result of the implementation of the Act, the Estonian museum landscape as a whole will be organized, international exhibition exchange will be activated, the availability of cultural heritage will be improved, and opportunities for use in other areas, including creative industries and entrepreneurship will be expanded. Meaningful collection decisions will improve the quality of museum collections and ensure that budget resources are well thought out and used. The new Museum Act is scheduled to enter into force on 1 July 2013. As a representative of the initiator, I very much ask the Riigikogu to act on this schedule. Please support the bill! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U123	Thank you, Minister. You have questions. Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U124	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, We have really waited long enough for the new museum law. However, there were some issues in the previous debate, and there are still some issues that need to be clarified. Firstly, in the future, museum facilities will be subject to much stricter conditions. What does that mean? For example, do municipal museums, which may not now meet the stricter conditions that are, of course, justified on the one hand, and need more time to clean up the storage facilities, may lose their funds, their collections?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U125	Thank you, good Eldar! This law does not create any additional conditions for the preservation of museum collections. These conditions, which currently exist, should continue in the same form. Things aren't getting any tougher here. I understand that the substantive concern is that many museums have very large collections and there are no proper conditions to keep them. That is one reason why we foresee that clear changes must be made to the collection policy. Museum collections must be formed on the basis of a collection policy so that there is no duplication and no unnecessary new museums are taken into the museum, there is no further burden on the storage facilities which, as many museums know, are in a really poor state. But I assure you, this law does not make the conditions for keeping museums tougher.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U126	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U127	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. It is normal that museums today are also available virtually. This draft contains a point where digital images become more accessible to a large number of people when they become operational. Are there any calculations that cost museums? Do you think it will increase people's interest in museums and such historical things and all kinds of museums?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U128	Thank you. MuIS still exists and already works, it is fully available 24 hours a day. More than half of Estonia's museums have been entered. So this is a kind of regularisation of the existing situation. National information collections must be made at the level of the law and maintained in exactly the same way accepted by the legislator. So adopting this law does not mean any particular additional resource from the point of view of MuIS. How could access to museums through MuIS affect museums? That's a very good question. I would rather predict that those who enter MuIS and look at the things that exist in Estonian museums will be interested to see these things alive. I think the effect is rather positive, but life shows. There can certainly not be any completely waterproof predictions. The most important thing for MuIS is that the museum museum museums also make the museums available online to citizens of other countries, who may thus be interested, for example, in coming to this country and exploring more closely what this is all about. Of course, this is also important for researchers from other countries.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U129	Aadu Black, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U130	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! It is great to sense your optimism, with a large part of it I share, especially with regard to the use of Internet services, and I agree that it increases people's interest in museums. On the other hand, the opinion is that this law will immediately make everything better, too optimistic. For example, if there is no money, the law alone will make nothing big and beautiful. I want to ask you, however, about trust, which is fundamental. I've been talking to a lot of museum workers about this bill. I dare say that I have rather been a moderate praiser of the bill than a cursor. It is amazing, however, that there is a huge crisis of trust. When I have said that sometimes it is necessary to sell the fifth beer closet, I have heard in response that I am referring not to the museum director Lang, but to Minister Lang's task of selling not the sixth beer closet, but to the painting of Köler so that he can pay people's wages. How can we eliminate this crisis of confidence?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U131	Thank you. It is very common in Estonian society today that no matter what state power or local authority does, it still causes a reaction in some way. After all, it is also our own politicians who are creating distrust and fear in order to achieve their own small goals. I can assure all museum leaders that the situation of museums by this law will certainly not get worse. After all, all the rights and obligations arising from the collection policy are actually there now. There is simply a lack, as I pointed out in the report, of the precise basis given by the legislator, on which one might, for example, refuse a respected person to accept one object or another into a museum collection if the person himself thinks it should belong, but objectively, that may not be the case. This distrust has also been caused in many ways by the museum leaders themselves, who, in a way or in another, have failed to carry out their tasks. When we look at the Estonian Central Museums, we see that their development has been very rapid and vigorous and has been extensively funded by both the European and Estonian taxpayers. However, this exponential development has certainly not reached all Estonian museums, and it has caused some frustration in people. In the case of some people, it must also be taken into account that their own actions may not have been the most effective.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U132	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U133	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. Here are various forms of museum activity: the State Museum, the Museum of a legal person governed by public law, the Municipal Museum and the Private Museum. At the same time, we know that there is also an opportunity to hold a museum, such as a foundation or a non-profit organisation, which is controlled by the public sector and which is legally a private museum, but is essentially a museum activity organised by the public sector. Couldn't the law contain a nuance that there is something like a private person controlled by the public sector who holds a museum? As a result of this nuance, are there no differences in the financing of museums, which depend on the membership of the museum?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U134	Thank you. That's an interesting question. We have never thought to understand that a museum in the form of an NGO cannot be viewed at all in the context of this law. I think that's exactly what the word 'private museum' means. Why are foundations specifically listed? Estonia has adopted a separate law on foundations, that is why. But the museum in the form of an NGO should cover the word 'private museum' regardless of who the NGO is founders or members.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U135	Kalle Jents, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U136	Thank you, Mr President. Good minister! Do you think and how much of the bill will change the way county museums operate in the future? Do you see any fundamental positive changes that the implementation of this law could bring, or in what direction should the county museums move in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U137	Thank you. The story of county museums is that the county museum itself has to decide whether it is a local identity institution or a memory institution in the local sense, or whether it is a state-wide museum. For example, I am pleased to note the very strong orientation of the Palamuse museum to the recording and introduction of Estonian school history. This is a very clear cross-Estonian issue. However, in the case of the Museum of Iisaku, for example, we quickly found a common language with local authorities that it was precisely a memory institution concerning local identity. Local authorities quickly agreed that they would set up a new private entity with the State and that the State would, to a certain extent, ensure the financing of that person, but that there would already be significantly less intervention in the decision-making process. Only local people can make decisions about the future of the museum. Whether it's within a single county or a couple of municipalities, it's always a matter of decision-making. The Museum of Iisaku has carried a great deal of the cultural identity of Peipsi and as such its activities are certainly very well founded. But running this activity from the Tallinn Ministry of Culture is, in my opinion, just stupid. This must be done on the ground. The county museums came to the Ministry of Culture barely four years ago. We approach each museum separately, in English saying case-by-case. We will look at their perspective and the possibility of interacting with the local government, and then we will develop our future activities. This action has been very successful. Not everywhere the museum leaders may have understood this, but the local authorities have often very much agreed with us on further steps.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U138	Urmas Glass, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U139	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good minister! This is certainly a very necessary bill. I ask you about a subject that has been discussed. The draft does not regulate the activities of museums of public institutions. The museums of the University of Tartu are given as an example. This has also been the case for specialised museums, for example, considering that the road museum does not need such a law. A conflict of thinking has arisen in this regard. Should this law not provide a general museum ideology for all museums and should this law not regulate the activities of all museums?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U140	Thank you. I'm trying to explain the starting point for the Ministry of Culture. Firstly, this law will certainly extend to the said road museum, as it is a museum which functions as a structural unit of a state institution. As far as universities are concerned, all Estonian universities are public bodies. I am talking about universities that operate under the University Act or the University of Tartu Act. Under the Constitution, they are free to decide for themselves what they are doing. It's called autonomy, scientific autonomy. If I remember correctly, one paragraph of the Constitution says that science and art and their teachings are free. This means that the university can decide for itself which museum it makes, what its activities are, what it collects and how it is displayed. It is possible for the state to intervene with force at the level of the law, but it must be extremely well-founded, because it is a constitutional barrier. I do not think that we should necessarily set limits for public universities in managing their museums by means of the museum law. If universities want their museums to be in the national information system, the state will definitely conclude an administrative contract with them. It is also conceivable to provide additional public funding for this activity, but this is not necessary in all cases. I am a great advocate of university autonomy and I would leave it to them to decide. They have the right to decide whether they use the word'museum', for example, for certain collections which, by their nature, are scientific collections. Why take away their right to put a "Museum" on the door, so that it is not perhaps a museum by legal definition? The same is true of private museums. We have a number of very good people who have found time, will and resources to gather something. If they want to call it a museum and put a sign up on the road, why stop them? But that doesn't mean that it's a museum in a classic legal sense, to which the law extends certain rights and obligations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U141	Valeri Korb, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U142	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. We're talking museums today. We know that we have basically three types of museums: state, municipal and private museums. Life has shown that the State Museum can become a municipal museum quite easily. I'm not talking about private museums. But I have a question as to whether the ministry is planning to make some municipal museums into a state museum in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U143	Thank you. There is no plan now, and no one has come directly to offer this opportunity. We have been proposed to take certain collections into the collections of central museums, but such a proposal that someone would have offered their institution directly as such a state museum has not been received. If so, the Ministry of Culture will certainly consider very carefully whether this is feasible. In order to preserve things as museums, there does not necessarily have to be an institution, much less a national institution. There are many other methods and tools to do this.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U144	Neeme the Great, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U145	Thank you, Mr President. I ask about § 22 'Exclusion from Museum Collection'. Point 4 of paragraph 1 states: 'The museum shall be excluded from the museum collection if the museum has left its possession or left another country before being included in the museum collection and is transferred to the owner or returned to another country, contrary to the intention of the owner. 'It says 'to be handed over'. How's that, really? It does not specify how this decision will be made, whether it will be handed over. Who has this decision-making power, which principles does this decision take? While it is said that this is at the discretion of the Minister, the Municipality, the City Government or the governing body of a legal person, what are the principles for such a decision?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U146	Thank you. Returns to another country can only be made by means of a transnational agreement. In general, countries are very cautious on this issue. World War II led museum collections from one country to another, and when the war ended, they were found somewhere and based on them national museums were made. There is such confusion that it has been decided in principle that these claims will not be submitted to each other in order not to open Pandora's box. This does not, of course, mean that, in certain cases, there is no agreement between countries that some things will be returned to their original owner. There are these agreements, and they are born every day. But there is great caution on this issue. As far as the transnational issue is concerned, it is purely a matter of agreements and external agreements. As far as the internal process is concerned, I imagine that if there were to be a court precedent in Estonia, for example, someone would initiate a lawsuit and want to get a thing out of the Estonian National Museum or the municipal museum that joined the MuIS, it should be taken into account that the judgments are known to be enforceable. No administrative procedure can come from the point of view of property reform in Estonia, as the property reform foundation act clearly states that it does not extend to museums that are in state museums.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U147	Eldar Efendiev, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U148	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Dear Minister, I also have a question about the core funds. We have such a simple and many years of existence that there is a core fund and an aid fund. Now, as you said, there are a lot of museums in the core fund that are accounted for by the various requirements of the previous period. Okay, inventory's on. Now, where are those former museums going? I'm a little speculating right now. Are they going to the Fund? But then the funds will remain just as big a problem. Let me give you an example. For example, there were quite a few items in the school museums, but these museums were disposed of at the same time. Where did all these museums end up? To the market! We can't get those things that are very, very important to us back. That's where my question comes from.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U149	Thank you. Eldar, if you have read this bill carefully, you know that this bill does not reflect the possibility that museums will be placed on the market or that a collection of museums will be able to transfer something to the relief body. It is actually up to the Committee on Culture to decide whether or not to create such an opportunity. I'd leave it open. In the Committee on Culture, this issue has been discussed, and I hope that the Committee on Culture will discuss it further in depth. But there is no such possibility in the bill that the government has put forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U150	Urmas Glass, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U151	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister! We were talking about the county museums. Indeed, they have different methodological levels and different collections. But there's one problem that has two poles. This is the good health and preservation of these collections. On the one hand, it would be necessary to ensure better storage conditions for certain museums (for example, there was talk of Köler's work), on the other hand, when we are talking about the central repository and the central fund, it is said that perhaps something is being taken away. Please comment on this! Is it precisely the Ministry's intention to improve the storage conditions of museums in the county museums?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U152	Thank you. The completion of the new building of the Estonian National Museum will significantly improve the conditions for the preservation of Estonian museums, which can be deposited with property in the county museums, which cannot be properly preserved on the spot. Secondly, during the development of the open-air museum, we have a plan to think of a central fund repository in Tallinn, which, of course, cannot be infinitely large, but to some extent should satisfy the needs of the Northern Estonian museums in particular. I do not share the view that in all Estonian museums, the conditions of storage are poor. You referred to Köler's painting. The painting of Köler in Viljandi Museum has been very well maintained, no problem. These things are different. I think it is very important that the collection policy is based on reality, not on accepting everything that is being brought to the door at the moment. If we are going to accept everything and describe it as museums, we should soon cover the whole of Estonia with museums, but unfortunately this is not possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U153	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U154	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question is about § 2, where the legal status and task of museums are discussed. It says here that the municipal museum is an institution or structural unit managed by a municipality or city authority, and it says that a private museum may be set up by a private legal person or by a self-employed person. If you read the explanatory memorandum, it appears that a private museum, acting as a private legal entity, may also be established by the State, the local government and the company. The self-employed person has to make a non-profit association or foundation there because the museum, which acts as a private legal person, is generally a foundation or a non-profit organisation. Why can't self-employed people simply provide museum services, but still have to create these units?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U155	Where do you read it? Sorry, but § 2 (4) says: 'The private museum is a museum of a private legal person or its structural unit or a museum of a self-employed person. '
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U156	Urve Tiidus, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U157	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. My question is a little more general. Here is a table showing the percentage of earning own income from Estonian museums. I'm not gonna ask you about that, though. Here's what I'm gonna ask you. How do you appreciate the cultural interest of the Estonian people, especially the young generation, in museums at a time when technological developments have made the world and all information so easily available?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U158	Thank you. There's a very simple answer to that. Good Urve, go to Kumus or Seaplane Harbour in the middle of the day, and you will see thousands of young people there who are very interested in what Estonian museums contain. The question is, how do we offer it all? There are, of course, museums in Estonia where some people visit a day and some days no people visit.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U159	Inara Luis, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U160	Thank you, Minister. I read the same paragraph and explanatory memorandum, which states that a museum acting as a private legal person is generally a foundation or a non-profit organisation. A self-employed person is also denied the right to establish a museum. Does a self-employed person also have to make a non-profit association, or is it sufficient for a self-employed person, for example, to list a museum service among his services and then to provide a museum service?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U161	Yeah, I get it now. It is not necessarily necessary to make a non-profit organisation, it can also be managed as a self-employed person. This is stated in paragraph 4. If the explanatory statement is not clear, it must be corrected.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U162	Good questioner, did you get your question? After all, the answer came in halfway through the question. Okay, that was your question, and you don't want to ask me any more. I understand. That's good. Minister, thank you. No further questions. I ask for a presentation of Riigikogu speech chair member Liisa-Ly Pakosta!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U163	Good manager! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Culture of the Riigikogu has discussed the draft museum law four times so far. First of all, it was very positive that the Minister of Culture introduced the concept of a new museum law more than a year ago in the Committee on Culture and accompanied members of the Riigikogu in the development of the new museum law early on. As a result, the parties represented in the Riigikogu were well informed about possible problems and issues, and the discussions of the Committee on Culture on the draft have been very constructive. The first debate was on 18 February, when it was decided to appoint the lead manager who is currently standing before you. The next debate was on 26 February. a, when Minister Rein Lang and Museum Adviser to the Department of Cultural Goods of the Ministry of Culture Marju Reismaa introduced the new draft museum law and answered questions from members of the Commission. At the same meeting, it was decided to put the draft on the plenary agenda on 20 March (this decision was taken in a consensual manner), on the other hand, to propose the completion of the first reading (this decision was taken in a consensual manner), and on the third, it was decided to set 10 working days for the submission of amendments, so the deadline is 4 April 2013 (this decision was also taken in a consensual manner). On 11 March, the Committee on Culture discussed the general principles of the draft museum law with stakeholders. Anton Pärn, Deputy Chancellor of Cultural Values of the Ministry of Culture and museum advisor Marju Reismaa, Chairman of the Museum Council Merike Lang, Director of the Museum of History of the University of Tartu Mariann Raisma, Legal Adviser of the University of Tartu Aliis Lin, Director of the Museum of Viljandi Jaak Pihlak, Director of the Mahtra Farm Museum Riina Annus, Managing Director of the Office of the Association of Estonian Rural Governments Ott Kasuri and Adviser to Taimi Saarma, Managing Director of the Association of Estonian Cities Jüri Võigemast and Chairman of the Management Board of the Central Organisation of Labour Associations and the Association of Estonian Cultural Workers Ago Tuuling took part in the discussion. The consultation highlighted the need for clarification of definitions in the draft. A number of important sectoral concepts such as'museum', 'cultural value','scientific collection' and 'collection principles' have either not been formulated in the draft or have, in the opinion of the participants in the debate, been poorly formulated. It was found that the meaning of the museum information system needs to be further analysed. These were also the same issues that have already been discussed in this Chamber today, such as the scope of the draft museum law and its application to the museum information system. A balance or finding of balance between the transfer of museums and the principle of integrity of collections was also considered important. It was pointed out that the draft provides only for the appointment of the Head of the State Museum, but does not open the way in which the heads of other museums are elected. All these topics are represented in written opinions and proposals received by the Committee on Culture. Written proposals have been received from the Central Organisation of Trade Unions of Employees, the Estonian Museum Association, the Museums of the University of Tartu and the Estonian Road Museum. In addition to those listed, these proposals address a number of technical issues, but it is also proposed to specify, for example, the procedure for excluding museum museums. Finally, I call on everyone to participate in the public debate on the draft museum law, which will take place at the Riigikogu Information Centre on 3 April at 12 o'clock, the formal coffee break starts at 11.40, the organisers are the Riigikogu Information Centre, the Cultural Commission and the Riigikogu Heritage Association. The topic of the discussion is 'Estonia's Museum of the Future? ' and presentations include representatives of the Ministry of Culture, museum association, state museums and foundations, lecturers, members of the Riigikogu and experts in document management. All interested parties are welcome, participation is free and can be registered in the Committee on Culture. Participation is free of charge. Thank you. I'm waiting for questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U164	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for submitting the 374 amendments. a 4 April at 5.15 p.m. The eighth item is closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U165	Let's move on to item nine. The first reading of the draft Act ratifying the Paris Protocol Supplementary Agreement between the Supreme Headquarters of the Republic of Estonia and NATO's European Forces and the headquarters of the Supreme Commander for NATO development begins at the beginning of the Government of the Republic. I ask for a presentation of the Riigikogu Chair of Defence Minister Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U166	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This agreement was signed in autumn 2012. The draft Act on the ratification of the Agreement aims to regulate the status of NATO's international military headquarters. All NATO Member States with or intending to establish NATO military headquarters on their territory have concluded an agreement specifying the conditions for hosting the Allied Force Headquarters and the status of headquarters personnel. In general, the idea is that NATO's military headquarters, when it is created on the territory of Estonia, will, of course, by decision and invitation of the Republic of Estonia, be subject to certain concessions which are broadly equivalent to the tax incentives applicable to diplomatic missions. In Estonia, there is a NATO institution with the status of military headquarters - NATO Centre for Cyber Defence Cooperation. Its employees, their position and benefits will be affected by this agreement. There is currently no establishment in Estonia of any other institutions equivalent to NATO headquarters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U167	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the Minister? No, it's not. Minister, thank you. Please present the speech chair of the Riigikogu, member of the National Defence Committee Tõnu July!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U168	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The National Defence Committee discussed the draft Act on the ratification of the Paris Protocol Supplementary Agreement before the first reading was presented at the session of 12 March, where the Deputy Secretary-General of Justice and Administration of the Ministry of Defence, Taimar Peterkop, and Ingrid Muul, Deputy Head of the Legal Department, participated as the initiator of the draft. On 10 October 2004, after joining NATO, the Riigikogu passed the Act of Accession on the status of international military headquarters established by the Act on the status of armed forces between the States Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty and the Protocol on the status of international military headquarters established by the North Atlantic Treaty. We are discussing the latter additional agreement in the Paris Protocol today. At the time, the commission was also the National Defence Commission when the above-mentioned law was being dealt with. The parties to the Paris Protocol are all NATO Member States, and an additional agreement has been concluded between those NATO States on whose territory NATO has military headquarters status. The conclusion of an additional agreement to the Paris Protocol will create a legal environment in order to increase NATO's presence in Estonia if necessary and possible. To date, Estonia has an institution with the status of NATO military headquarters, which is the NATO Centre for Cyber Defence Cooperation. The status of this authority is governed by the Paris Protocol and the agreement can also be extended to staff of the Cyber Defence Cooperation Centre in the event of ratification of this Supplementary Agreement and the creation of such laws. At the session of 12 March, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the first reading of the draft law under discussion be included on the agenda of the eighth working week of the Riigikogu on 20 March. At the same time, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu that the first reading of the draft law under discussion be completed and that the deadline for submitting amendments be set by law at 10 working days, i.e. the end of the working day of 4 April. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U169	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? No calls, no negotiations. The position of the commission is that the first reading should be completed. I will set the deadline for the submission of 384 amendments. a 4 April at 5.15 p.m. The first reading is closed and the ninth item is also closed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U170	Let's move on to the tenth item on the agenda. First reading of the draft law amending the Paris Protocol on ratification of the Supplementary Agreement between the High Headquarters of the Republic of Estonia and NATO's European Forces and the headquarters of the High Commander in the Development of NATO, initiated by the Government of the Republic, begins. I request the Secretary of Defense of the Speaker's Office, Urmas Reinsalu!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U171	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, This bill is, in fact, a 'tail law'. In order for the international agreement discussed under the previous paragraph, the Supplementary Agreement to the Paris Protocol, to enter into force in our country's legal order, amendments must be made to 15 laws. These concern, above all, tax incentives, as well as exemptions from other incentives, in our legislation. These benefits are comparable to those of diplomats accredited to Estonia. The deadline for the entry into force of the Act is 1 July, which will also allow the adoption of government and ministerial regulations after the adoption of the Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U172	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the Minister? There are no questions. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of the Riigikogu, member of the National Defence Committee Tõnu July!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U173	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The National Defence Committee discussed the draft law resulting from the Paris Protocol's Supplementary Agreement before submitting it to the first reading at its meeting on 12 March. Taimar Peterkop, Deputy Chancellor of Justice and Administration of the Ministry of Defence, and Ingrid Muul, Deputy Head of the Legal Department participated in this meeting. The draft law under discussion is the result of an additional agreement to the Paris Protocol, the first reading of the draft law on ratification has just been completed. The purpose of the draft law is to amend the laws necessary for the implementation of the additional agreement and thereby to give effect to the additional agreement. It is necessary to amend the laws in order to facilitate the work of the institutions with the status of the military headquarters of the NATO Allied Forces in Estonia or in the future, thereby ensuring the implementation of the Paris Protocol and its Supplementary Agreement and the independence of the headquarters of the Allied Forces. In particular, the change concerns the staff of the institution with HQ status. At the session of 12 March, the National Defence Committee decided by consensus to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the first reading of the draft law under discussion be included on the agenda of the eighth working week of the Riigikogu by Wednesday 20 March. The National Defence Committee also decided by consensus to propose to the Riigikogu that the first reading of the draft law under discussion be stopped. According to the law, the deadline for submitting amendments is 10 days, i.e. the end of the 4 April working day. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-03-20_U174	Dear colleagues, do you have any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. I thank the waitress! Do the representatives of the political groups wish to negotiate? You don't want to negotiate. The position of the commission is that the first reading of draft 385 should be terminated. I will set the deadline for the submission of 385 amendments. a 4 April at 5.15 p.m. The 10th item is closed. Good fellows, today's session is closed. I thank you and wish you every success in your work. Closure of the sitting at 15.56 p.m.
