ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. Good afternoon, Prime Minister and Ministers. Let's start today's briefing. Please, let's do the presence check! 35 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, 66 are missing. The following members of government will attend today's Question Time: Prime Minister Andrus Ansip, Minister of Culture Rein Lang and Minister of Agriculture Helir-Valdor Seeder.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U2	Let's start asking questions. The first question is from my colleague, Heljo Pikhof, to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U3	Thank you. Prime Minister! You have told the press that your household's electricity bill for January this year was 14% lower than in January last year. I wonder if you are the only person in Estonia who has achieved fulfilling the IRL electoral promise. I would also like you to talk to the people of Estonia about your austerity secrets and tips.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U4	Thank you for your interest in my personal household, but I don't think Question Time is the most appropriate format for sharing personal experiences. But once you asked me that, it would certainly be fair of me to answer. Yeah, we used modern materials to heat our living for the summer. I cannot say, unfortunately, the name of the product we used, because my son-in-law is involved in the import of these materials. It would be very corruption-like if I were to advertise this magnificent material, which has a heat resistance of 1 cm equivalent to 20 cm of the thermal resistance of the penoplast. But everyone can search the Internet for this product, it starts with a t-letter and the name is not very long. [[Laughter.]] This isn't really a joke. Each household must keep a proper account of energy expenditure, including the cost of heating the house. Of course, we cannot quite mechanically compare this year to January of January, because there are differences in ambient temperatures as well. But if you order thermal imaging in cold, cold days, you get a very clear picture of where there are heat leaks in the house. The removal of these leaks is not costly at all and will later be reflected in the accounts to be paid. I said, in our case, extra heat will pay off in about five years. In any case, it was wise to do so in our family. But why is the bill smaller than last year? It's rather because it's a warmer winter this year.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U5	Please, Mr Pikhof, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U6	Thank you. Prime Minister! Now, if you look at what's been happening at the price of electricity, do you agree with me that IRL promise 'Home expenses down! 'have been completely irresponsible?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U7	Thank you. Who's got home expenses down, who doesn't. I just described a household where the costs have really gone down. There is a clear reason why the owner of the home has been active. There are quite a number of homes in Estonia where smaller heat bills are to be paid this winter. In particular, these bills are smaller this year because several apartment buildings have received support through KredEx, and people have contributed their own resources to increase the insulation of houses. That is why home expenses have gone down. A fall in home expenses is not an obvious thing that happens in itself. But many who have been determined to pursue a reduction in home expenses have also achieved their goal. I'm going to repeat what I've called from this speaker before. In Finland, heating one cubic metre of residential and office space takes twice as much heat as in Estonia. However, according to Finland's general understanding, it is slightly north of Estonia and is expected to be colder than in Estonia. Our buildings of their own time are not effective from the point of view of energy use. During the construction of many buildings, energy cost almost nothing and therefore our houses are not heated. We must continue to address this problem very seriously. The mere indication that home expenses have not gone down is certainly not a constructive action or a solution.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U8	Please, Mr Pikhof, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U9	Thank you. Prime Minister! You're lucky to have a son-in-law, but not everyone's done so well. I ask what should be done then by people who live in apartment buildings where not all residents are willing to heat because they simply have no income to do this insulation now. I therefore have another question: did the Minister for Economic Affairs, Juhan Parts, who has held his office for a long time, realise that the price of electricity was beginning to rise? He's got a lot of impressions about what he's talking about in this hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U10	Thank you. Small incomes are not an excuse to afford large expenses. I know that it is now possible to get offers in the insulation of residential buildings where a construction company that is ready to heat an apartment building makes the entire investment and the refund is carried out within the limits of the current heat bills. This means that the construction company will recover its investment over the years, provided that the owners continue to pay the heat bills to the same extent as they have paid them today. The recovery of the money will be possible for the construction company by saving energy, saving it. Basically, we have this energy saving space double on average compared to Finland. I'm sure it's worth the heat. This is not about my son-in-law who recommended very good material to me. Well, don't be puzzled! This is Triso Super 100. May he have some use for this briefing. In fact, it is now possible to get a sufficiently expert consultation on how residential buildings, including apartment buildings, can be insulated. If the cooperative has problems, I admit that many cooperatives have problems with some of the incredibles, then more must be done to convince them. It is necessary to find a suitable solution for every owner of the dwelling, as there are no arguments for not insulation a warm, uncontaminated house.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U11	And now the questions registered on the spot. Since there are quite a few of them registered, but we also have five questions to deal with, I will give you the opportunity to put forward three questions registered on the spot. Please, Mr Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U12	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! The Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Finance forecast an increase in electricity prices of 15% from 1 January 2013. As was said in the previous question, your coalition partner promised to bring the price of IRL's electricity down. We know that from 1 January consumer prices actually increased by 30% on average. At the same time, Juhan Parts has expressed serious satisfaction, for example at the press conference of the Government of the Republic last week. And from here I have a question for you: do you share the satisfaction and joy of Juhan Parts that, over the last few years, the price of electricity has almost doubled for the household consumer? I would add that you have also talked about Finland for a long time here and have given examples of this, but, based on taxes and network charges, the price of electricity in Finland is in fact already cheaper for consumers than in Estonia. There's a cheaper price for electricity than we do.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U13	Thank you. It is not the case that the price of electricity in Finland is cheaper for consumers than in Estonia. I have a bar chart with me, but it doesn't really work because it doesn't look too far. In Estonia, the price of electricity is clearly more favourable to the consumer after the full opening of the electricity market than in Finland. I have always considered it credible to say that the price of electricity in Estonia will rise by about 20% when the electricity market opens. To date, we do not know how great this increase really turns out to be, because it is not possible to draw any conclusions from one month. For example, according to the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the average electricity bill increased by 16.1% in January as a result of market opening, rather than 30%, as you claimed. I haven't found any statements like that coming out of your mouth. The price of electricity in February-March is still somewhat predictable, but what exactly is it in the summer months, we cannot say yet. But the assumptions are that the price of electricity on the stock market will definitely fall in the summer. It was known to everyone that the price of electricity would rise this year. You can't fight it, you can only control your consumption and thus your spending.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U14	Please, colleague Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U15	Thank you. I think the son-in-law's story might end now, but it's been a long time. You can get to Delfi with that, I get it. But people have still been hit by electric shock, and they have more than a 15% increase in home expenses in two years. In the case of electricity, the poorest people who could not choose the package and the few people who were left with the general service were most affected. When we look at how the state behaved in this situation, when electricity went on the free market, it allowed Elering, under its control, to increase network charges by 13%. And they're gonna be raised again this year. That's a lot, of course. At the same time, we could have changed the excise duty, although VAT exemptions could have done everything. I ask why the government did go along with Elering raising so many of these network charges. When you say that there is a need to invest in networks, it is strange that in a few years more than a billion euros have been taken out of dividends.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U16	Maybe my memory's bad, but you can barely refresh my memory with the billion that was taken out of Elering. Probably not. Elering is the authority that we need to stand up for the rules of procedure of the networks. You may also know that there have been major problems with security of supply in Estonia. In many parts of Estonia, alternating currents have meant that there are and sometimes this energy supply cannot be considered reasonable in the 21st century. Therefore, investments in transmission networks, as well as in the creation of reserve capacity, have been essential. Today, we cannot imagine the supply of electricity, which lacks almost 100% security of supply and the knowledge that there is electricity in the household at all times. As a result, investments in transmission networks and their quality are inevitable. The increase in electricity prices has affected households differently. The 5.5% of electricity consumers who heat their houses or apartments have certainly suffered the most. At the same time, there are people like me who might say that their electricity bill was smaller in January this year than it was in January last year. There are people of all kinds. I believe that this one-off price increase will be paid by a later increase in security of supply.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U17	Please, my colleague Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U18	Thank you, Mr President. Good Prime Minister! In recent times, one of the greatest concerns in our society is the lack of trust in political organisations, including politicians, because one thing is promised, but another is done. For example, if we take this very infamous election promise to reduce IRL's home expenses, it was clearly stated, among other things, that the price of electricity would be reduced, not the final bill, but the price of electricity. At the same time, all reasonable people know now, and they also knew year and half earlier that the price of electricity would not fall in any way. Here I have a general philosophy question: how do you judge such political slogans? Do you think that honesty and clarification could increase the credibility of politicians and political parties, in an area as important as the cost of electricity?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U19	Thank you. I have not been the voter of the IRL, and therefore I have not been very attentive to their slogans. But I don't remember the slogan about lowering the price of electricity from their campaign. I remember the slogans of another party that allowed the price of water to be controlled, but this control has meant a rapid increase in the price of water. It's about your former party. Allowing a reduction in electricity prices is certainly not responsible, as today the cost of energy carriers is increasing and production prices are rising. Even if you really want and try, you still can't figure out how to lower electricity prices in the future. Energy prices are probably set to rise in the future. True, there are opportunities for humiliation. For example, the 10% reduction in renewable energy charges decided by the respected Riigikogu made the increase in electricity prices slightly smaller for consumers.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U20	Ladies and gentlemen, Since we still have registered questions, I will stop dealing with this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U21	Let's keep going. Next, my colleague, Ester Tuiksoo, will put a question to Minister for Agriculture, Helir-Valdor Seeder. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U22	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Minister of Agriculture! Under your leadership, it was decided to give the coordination of the advisory service from 1 January 2010 to the Rural Promotion Foundation. What expectations did you, as a minister, expect of such a transfer? And what tasks did you assign to the Rural Development Foundation as the coordinator of the advisory services?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U23	Thank you. Honourable questioner! First, I have to be specific. The fact that the coordination of the advisory services went to the Rural Promotion Foundation was a joint decision and a compromise, not a guideline or decision of the Ministry of Agriculture. The proposal of the Ministry of Agriculture was to establish an independent, separate legal entity for coordinating advice in the agricultural sector in Estonia, the founders of which would be farmers' organisations, both the Farmers' Confederation and the Farmers' Confederation, the Consultants and the Estonian University of Life Sciences. As the farmers' organisations did not agree with each other on the establishment of a common organisation, a compromise was agreed with the parties that the coordination of the advisory service would be given to the Rural Promotion Foundation. It was a compromise agreement, the will and proposal of the Ministry of Agriculture were completely different. But what were our expectations? Of course, this system worked, it still works, but it can always be improved. We wanted to include in particular the knowledge of the Rural Promotion Foundation, which is particularly relevant to financial accounting and consultations, i.e. to include more of this knowledge and the potential of the MES in the consultative system. This was the added value or benefit that could have increased from the involvement of the MES and the reason why we decided to give this coordination to the MES as a compromise.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U24	Please, Mrs Tuiksoo, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U25	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Financial advice has always existed in the advisory service. We are now in the situation that the agricultural sector is not satisfied with the advisory service and the people of the advisory services are not satisfied with what the country offers them or what conditions they have. My question to you is this. I'm sure you've done some mid-term reviews. What's gotten better in the past two years? Or what problems would you highlight, and how can you solve them?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U26	Thank you. Overall, it can be said that the consultative system works as it has been going on for many years and that no substantial changes have been made from the point of view of the farmer. We've also done various surveys and research. The satisfaction of producers in receiving advice has been more or less the same for years; it has not changed significantly. So it is difficult to assess this over all these changes. If we look at a longer period, the Rural Promotion Foundation once coordinated the advisory system, in the meantime the Estonian Chamber of Agriculture and Trade was, and now the Rural Promotion Foundation is again. The request has now come from the consuls that they form their own organisation and take coordination into their own hands. We must consider this proposal. But I dare say that no change has significantly worsened or improved the functioning of the advisory system. The main problem remains the number of consuls: in some areas it is not possible to get advice, in individual areas we do not have certified consuls. Those are the problems. Of course, there is a major problem with the lack of money in the system, and also with the need for different advice from large and small producers. Large producers are even able to buy this service from abroad; small farmers are often not even able to formulate their own question or wish. So the level is very different. Such diversity and differences are also a major problem in the organisation of advice in the consultative system.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U27	Please, my colleague, Mrs Tuiksoo, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U28	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister, It seems that you really know perfectly what the problems are with the advisory service and also with coordination. You communicate with agricultural organisations almost every day. Why do you not propose that the agricultural organisations whose members essentially need this advisory service do something in this direction? At least you have the opportunity to encourage this cooperation by the state. You talk a lot about joint action. Perhaps this is a place where more joint action can be encouraged.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U29	Thank you. This is really what we do every day and it cannot be said that there is no cooperation between producer organisations or farmers' representative organisations at all. There are certain questions. After all, we remember the recently discussed financial perspective, where Estonian producer organisations agreed on several issues and fought for a common thing. However, in organising the advisory service, we have so far not achieved such a consensus that important umbrella organisations are prepared to jointly form a umbrella organisation that would be the coordinator of the advisory service. If such an organisation is ever born, we will seriously consider transferring the coordination of the advisory service to it. At the moment, we have gathered the parties. Last week, I met with the consuls. But it is certainly not possible to say that, through the 15 county advisory services, umbrella organisations are automatically represented by the Farmers' Confederation and the Farmers' Confederation. The Farmers' Confederation and the Farmers' Confederation can still be represented by their own representative organisations, not by county advisory centres. So, so far, no such umbrella organisation has emerged, but we are fully communicating and contributing to it. And, as has been said, should such a general organisation arise, we are ready to negotiate seriously to hand over the coordination of the advisory services to them.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U30	I would like to ask you two questions registered on the spot. Let's start with colleague Tarmo Tammes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U31	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, thank you very much. Last week you came from Brussels with the good news that Estonian farmers won a great victory. Maybe you're describing a little bit of what this victory is about and what it comes from. For example, I have read that in the next three years the rate of subsidies will not increase for Estonian farmers. Or have I misunderstood something? Perhaps you can tell us which European Union countries have even smaller area payments per hectare than Estonia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U32	Thank you. It is difficult to relate this issue to the advisory service, but I think the victory was remarkable for Estonia. In the next period, we will receive twice as much money from the European Union budget for direct payments as we do in the current period of EUR 500 million instead of just over EUR 1 billion. This should not be compared to the amount of aid per hectare that a farmer receives. Those are two different things. But the Estonian state will receive twice as much money for direct payments in the next period, and I think it is a very big and important victory. If you didn't call it a victory, I'd say it would be very ironic and vicious. Secondly, the financing of the rural development plan at current prices will also increase for farmers as a whole. If during this period it was 935 million euros with minimum co-financing by the state, then in the next period, provided that the Estonian state also fulfils the minimum co-financing obligation, it will be 961 million euros. As has been said, there is growth in this area as well. And the risk of reducing direct payments in 2014 has certainly been eliminated. We can also cover the reduction in direct payments that threatened us in 2014 from the money provided to MAK. So I dare say that there will be no reduction in direct payments for farmers. I would also advise you to disseminate this information, so that the claim, as if direct payments were to decrease in Estonia in the coming years, is not true because such an agreement was reached in the European Council. Of course, should the europarlamento change anything during the procedure and our positions deteriorate, the situation could change. But I very much doubt it, and I do not believe that the europarlamento will make any less favourable decisions towards us.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U33	Ladies and gentlemen, please stay within the limits of the issue. Please ask the last question registered on the spot from my colleague, Priit Toobal.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! Since you were very good at linking the previous question to the advisory service, I'm sure you can relate my question to it too. I ask: if and if so, when will RMK be taken to Viljandi and Eesti Loto Rakverre? People are waiting.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U35	What was the question? When will RMK be taken to Viljandi? I don't know when to answer that question. But I hope that the time will come when several independent and autonomous state institutions will be moved outside Tallinn. This is, in my opinion, a sensible regional political step. Very many European countries are spreading jobs in the public sector. Maintaining these jobs outside Tallinn is no more expensive than in Tallinn. Many services, rental and real estate prices are significantly cheaper outside Tallinn, with fixed costs lower. One-off removal costs in this respect are low costs compared to long-term savings. Of course, it is necessary to consider which institution it is possible and reasonable to take out of Tallinn, it must be an independent, autonomous institution, an institution of which size is suitable for which centre, which is the historical background of the institution's specifics and one region or another. For example, it would be perfectly appropriate to place a cultural establishment in Viljandi. There is potential for this and people who already work in the cultural institutions that are in Viljandi, but who do not have a full workload, for example. So it makes sense to look for such solutions. I believe that, as your elected representative in Viljandi, you will certainly support this idea and proposal.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U36	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U37	Let us go to the next question, which is from my colleague, Priit Toobal, to the Minister of Culture, Rein Lang. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good Minister of Culture! As an ambassador elected from Viljandi and Järvamaa, I would like the theatre in Estonia to be in Viljandi. But that's it. I have a question about gambling tax. The Ministry of Finance has submitted a draft to the coordination circle which will abolish the Gambling Tax Board, which distributes funds between projects, and simply direct the revenue from gambling tax to the state budget. This has already been mentioned in the press as patching up the holes in the state budget. In view of the fact that last year the cultural capital received EUR 9.5 million from the gambling tax, as Minister of Culture, are you not afraid that the plan of the Ministry of Finance could significantly withdraw money from the field of culture.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U39	Thank you. I have indeed read this draft sent to the coordination circle. The fear that you have now expressed on your question is not justified by anything, because the share of cultural capital in the gambling tax is not affected by this draft. However, it does indeed provide for the liquidation of the Gambling Tax Board and the channelling of these funds, which until now was distributed by the Gambling Tax Board, into the state budget. The Ministry of Culture does not support this draft in its proposed form and we do not agree with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U40	Please, Mr Toobal, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! I understand that, in addition to having disagreements on this draft within one political party, the Chairman of the patriotic group, Kaia Iva, has also said that this plan by the Ministry of Finance is not a good one. He has strongly criticized it and considered it a bad idea. Does this mean that the bill from the Ministry of Finance is uncoordinated within both the party and the coalition?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U42	Thank you. You can address this question to the Minister of Finance. But in this form, this bill has indeed not been mentioned in our party. The essence of the matter is that the Gambling Tax Board is currently distributing grants at several stages also for the preparation of the Olympics, which we have the Estonian Olympic Committee. Instead of submitting about a dozen proposals for support to the Gambling Tax Board each year, these amounts could be directed directly to the Olympic Committee. The Ministry of Culture proposed this to the Ministry of Finance last year, in addition to several other proposals on how culture and sport could be financed. The explanatory memorandum to the draft drawn up between the Ministries states that the Ministry of Finance allocates these amounts to the Olympic Committee during the annual budgetary procedure for preparation of the Olympics, but it does not have legal guarantees. That is why we are not coordinating this bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U43	Please, Mr Toobal, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good minister! Can you assure the cultural people, the various non-profit institutions, associations and people active in the social field, and promise that the Gambling Tax Council will not be abolished in its current form?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U45	Thank you. I think whether or not the Gambling Tax Council, as a body distributing grants, disappears, is the subject of further discussion. But it certainly cannot suffer from the financing of projects. If this money comes and is provided for in the state budget, it must be guaranteed, in particular, the amount relating to the athletic preparations for the Olympics. If we have agreed that this is the work of the National Olympic Committee, then I see no reason why the Olympic Committee has to smear countless papers, write applications and then receive 'automatically positive answers' to them. This is called unnecessary bureaucracy. I think that this action could certainly be effective and improved. This has probably also been the aim of the Ministry of Finance by sending this draft to the coordination circle, and the result of this round of coordination is, for the Ministry of Finance, an analysis of how to move forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U46	Thank you very much, Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U47	The next question is Mr Inara Luigas to Prime Minister Andrus Ansip.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U48	Thank you. Prime Minister! We have a difficult situation at the border crossing. I'll give you an example. Before arriving at the border, the driver shall register his border crossing queue online. If, for example, he arrives at the Koidula border crossing point, where the country road is free, there are no vehicles at the border crossing point, and the register shows that there are zero cars in order, he cannot take his car directly to the border crossing, but is sent to a forced waiting area. The waiting area is a paid parking lot. The driver enters a waiting area where he/she does not use the waiting area but is not allowed to leave until he/she has paid the waiting period. It is five euros at the Koidula border crossing point. The Chancellor of Justice analysed the situation and wrote to the Minister of the Interior in a letter dated 19 April last year: in order to organise the entry of vehicles at the border crossing points of Luhamaa and Koidula, the State Border Act is being violated, under which no charge may be charged for the use of a waiting area for border crossings if the service of the waiting area is not actually used. My question is why the Chancellor of Justice's proposal has not been met and the waiting areas continue to receive illegal remuneration.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U49	There is one minute to ask the question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U50	Thank you. I remember the time when the border order was 50 kilometres long and Estonia was not the only country where the border order was unreasonable. In Finland, it was even 130 kilometres long. Thus, the creation of parking and waiting areas, and the use of European Union funds to do so, was an investment that we could not afford. We could not allow traffic on the roads to be disrupted because of the border order. We could not allow those in line to pollute nature. We also could not allow traffic conditions to deteriorate significantly due to queues, or traffic became more dangerous. As a result, the creation of waiting areas and the introduction of electronic border queues were inevitable. Of course, it would be better if there were no queue if you could freely cross the border when you arrived, so you would cross the border. The reason why all cars have to be diverted to the waiting area is probably as clear to you as I am. If some cars didn't go to the waiting area, there'd probably be another line on the highway. Drivers would start waiting for the moment when the waiting area is empty and they could drive straight across the border. With this, we would take a long step back, not forward. Sequences on the roads are not our goal.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U51	Please, Mr Luigas, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U52	Thank you. Prime Minister! The situation is that there are no real border queues with the electronic border order system, and this has been the case for a long time. The drivers who actually stay there and use these services may go to the waiting area. However, the problem now is that the keeper of the electronic border crossing queue and the managers of the waiting areas at the border crossing points are different legal entities. If the driver makes an electronic reservation of the queue, he will pay one euro and ten euro cents online to one company. If he is forced to go through a waiting area, he will pay another company five euros, and this amount will include one component as well as a fee for taking the border crossing order. The border crossing point therefore pays twice the same fee at one border crossing point. Why is there such regulation in Estonia that the same fee must be paid twice when crossing borders, except for different administrative companies?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U53	Thank you. It must be the case that it is not reasonable to pay twice for the same service. I know that several border crossings have turned to the Chancellor of Justice with their complaints, who in turn has turned to the Ministry of the Interior. The Chancellor of Justice has found that our border is breaking the law by charging those who do not actually use the waiting area service. However, I also know that the Ministry of the Interior has not accepted the Chancellor of Justice's approach in its reply. This is particularly a question of what to consider as a waiting area service, which services should be remunerated and which services should not be. The Ministry of the Interior agrees with the Chancellor of Justice that if the services are not provided, no invoices should be paid for the services provided in the waiting area. Perhaps crossing the border should be free of charge for all crossings if the waiting area service is not provided. The dispute lies in what is a service and what is not a service. I think that while the Ministry is arguing with the Chancellor of Justice, we do not have a firm position from the Chancellor of Justice and we do not know his reaction to the statements made by the Ministry of the Interior, it is not appropriate for the Prime Minister to become a judge.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U54	Please, Mr Luigas, the second point of clarification.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U55	Thank you. Prime Minister! You say that you must not charge double fees or fees for services that are not used. However, this fee is currently charged and has even increased the price of these services. But here's an example. You're going to a store somewhere and you want to buy Värska's mineral water. One bottle of mineral water costs one euro and ten euro cents. It's also customary in the store to take a shopping cart, but you don't take it because you only buy one Värska water. In cash register, you will pay one euro and ten euro cents for Värska water, plus five euros for the use of a shopping cart, because the rules provide for this. Do you think it would be wise to regulate these charges in this way? How would you solve such a problem if you bought one bottle of Värska mineral water and paid five euros for using a cart that you don't actually use?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U56	Your statement is relatively arbitrary. Do you have a relationship with Värska water about the same as I do with Triso Super 100 that you're so eager to talk about Värska water? I repeat what I said earlier. No one has to pay for services that have not been provided. My understanding is that there is a dispute about what is a service and what is not a service. I am quite sure that there will be clarity on this matter in the near future.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U57	I would like to ask you two questions registered on the spot. Let's start with my colleague Rainer Vakra.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U58	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister! Once upon a time, we did have queues, and the borderers polluted nature and so on. Today, we all really have reason to rejoice that Estonia is an e-state and that e-service has also reached the area of crossing the border. As a result, you can book places online and there will be no possible queues. However, as has emerged from this debate, border crossings are currently being forced to pay a standstill fee, despite the fact that no one has to pay double. In certain countries, perhaps in Italy, it could be called a national mafia. What should we still call it? And do you consider it reasonable that we in Estonia must pay for a service that we do not need and that we do not use? I just don't get it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U59	No one will necessarily have to pay for a service that we do not provide, that we do not need and that we do not consume. Like I said, you don't have to pay. But this cross-border arrangement, as I told you before, is forced upon us. For us, the alternative was not the 50 km line. The need for regulation and the creation of waiting areas was an enforced solution for us. It would be much better to increase the capacity of border crossing points in such a way that there is no need to create any queues. However, it is not only dependent on one party, there is another party, and only in cooperation with the two can border capacity be increased. Thus, the need for regulation for some time will certainly remain on the Estonian side. And I think the end result achieved is pretty good for those crossing the border. This is also a pretty good solution for those road users who do not intend to cross the border, but who use the same roads that were used in the past to form border queues. If there is a violation of a law anywhere, or there is a direct violation of the law's requirements, the violation must be brought to an end immediately. Nobody collects any double fees.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U60	I would like to ask you the last issue registered on the ground, Mr Tammelt.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U61	Thank you, Madam President. Prime Minister! Do you think the honorable Chancellor of Justice should turn to the court to find clarity in the house? And if the court says that this activity has been illegal, should people be given the money that has so far been illegally demanded?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U62	You still want me to start commenting on the dispute between the two parties somehow without knowing all the arguments of one or the other party. I wouldn't do that, though. We do not know whether, for example, the Chancellor of Justice will convince or dissuade the arguments put forward by the Ministry of the Interior. When you ask your question, you proceed from the assumption that, if one person, such as the Chancellor of Justice, ever made a statement, he will not be given any consideration in reply, that there will be no argument against it. As far as I am concerned, I dare say that if I have convincing arguments, I am prepared to change my views according to these arguments. And I believe that this is the case with all the debate partners. It is not necessary to attribute to some debate partners fossilised views which remain completely mute to the arguments put forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U63	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I will conclude on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U64	The last question is from my colleague Lauri Laas to the Minister of Agriculture, Helir-Valdor Seeder. Please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U65	Thank you, Madam President. Minister Seeder! You are the promoter of rural and agricultural affairs due to your position. Data from Statistics Estonia show that the first open electricity market figures were 23.6% higher than in the previous month. Hence my question: since you are a member of the party that has mainly been behind the increase in network charges, how do you think the rising electricity will affect life in the countryside?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U66	Thank you. The Minister of Agriculture is not responsible for the pricing of electricity to a greater or lesser extent. However, the agricultural sector is affected by the price of electricity, and thus has been affected by the increase in electricity prices. Of course, any price increase will also increase the cost of production and affect the population in the country. This means that everyone must take action as far as possible. However, I would like to recall one thing that has still not been highlighted in the media and in debates about the rise in electricity prices. Indeed, one important reason for the increase in electricity prices is that we opened up the electricity market. The opening of the electricity market was agreed in the accession negotiations, when the Minister of Economy was Liina Tõnisson, the Central Party, and the Electricity Market Act included a point on the full opening of the electricity market in 2007 with renewable energy charges when the Minister of Economy was Edgar Savisaar. From these decisions, we knew that the price of electricity was rising. At the moment, everything has been done to at least mitigate the rise in electricity prices, as this cannot be avoided. These reasons lie in history.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U67	Please, Mr Laas, the first point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U68	Thank you. Mr. Minister! I do not think it would be best for you to say that since you are the Minister for Agriculture and the price of electricity concerns another area, you do not know anything about it. However, I will focus on network charges, which also increased by 14% at the end of last year. It's the decision of the government that you belong to. You're a member of the IRL, too. What I'm saying is that you are also responsible for this price increase. Your party promised to take home expenses down, but they've gone up. As a member of the government and chairman of the IRL Council, have you tried to do something to call Juhan Parts to order? How long can the price of electricity rise, and what can really be done to ease this increase in electricity prices for people?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U69	Thank you. First of all, I have not claimed that I do not know anything about the increase in the price of electricity, these are your words put in my mouth. Yes, I do. However, as far as the imposition of network charges is concerned, the government has not imposed them for a long time. Whether network charges are "fair" or not is controlled by the Competition Authority. As a member of the Riigikogu, you probably know all about it or, if you don't know, you should definitely make that clear to yourself. I believe that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications is open to any member of the Riigikogu to explain the matter, if this is not really known. About 'Home expenses down! ' principle, then I understand that both the Social Democrats and the Centre Party are somewhat envious of the Fatherland and Res Publica Union, that we were a party who knew before the elections that in the coming years home expenses would be one of the main concerns of the people. We wrote this as our programme objective to reduce home expenses. I also consider reducing home expenses if we can slow down the rise in prices. This has been done through a reduction of renewable energy charges and support for insulation of residential buildings that allow energy savings, as well as a reduction of land tax within certain limits for residential land, both in the city and in the countryside. These all actually serve the objective of reducing home expenses. I think that without these measures, home costs would certainly have increased more quickly. So I dare say that this foresight, that home expenses will be a serious problem for people, proved to be very right for the Union of Fatherland and Res Publica, and this promise was also a very correct point in our programme.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U70	Please, Mr Laas, the second point to be clarified.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U71	Thank you, Minister. I can assure you that I do not feel at all jealous of the situation that IRL is in now. I'd rather feel sorry for you. Now we have heard that the state of Estonia is governed not by the Government of the Republic, but by the Competition Authority. But I'm coming back to the area you're in charge of. It is quite certain that the production of Estonian farmers, or Estonian food, will also increase as the price of electricity, or production input, increases. As Minister of Agriculture, what are you planning to do so that already expensive Estonian production can compete with imported goods?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U72	Thank you. The competitiveness of Estonian agriculture is very important and I am pleased to note that in recent years the share of both competitiveness and exports in Estonia's agricultural production has increased, as well as the efficiency of production in both farmers and the food industry. These have all been positive signs and I hope that this will continue to be the case. What can we do, what can the government do? Plan a wide range of effective measures in the RDP. In the current period, together with the under-measures, we have implemented a total of about 80 measures aimed at the development of the agricultural sector, the food industry and other rural businesses. The rural development plan for the next period, 2014 to 2020 is under development. The Steering Group at the desk of the various social partners, about 40 people, is currently discussing the implementation of the most correct and sensible measures that would help Estonian agriculture and rural areas in the best way under this development plan. So, to date, these measures have not yet been developed, but I believe that during this year the rural development plan will certainly be ready and forwarded to the government, and the government will send it to Brussels. We therefore want to contribute to agriculture and rural development through rural development programme measures.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U73	Please ask a question registered on the spot from Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U74	Thank you. Dear Minister, I dare say with a slogan 'Home expenses down! " You guys really fucked up. There was nothing said about the insulation of houses, and you know very well that in order to achieve maximum energy savings in small homes in villages during the collective farm, people must give themselves into eternal debt slavery. I also want to say that Ken-Marti Vaher said this sentence in this hall that we will halve the cost of the room and half the water costs. So it was the ballots that weren't filled. And, of course, the campaign that you're going on about the election report, or what you had in your promises there, is still completely failed and embarrassing. But I'll ask you what you would answer the President today. After all, the President came out with an opening speech on the day of the cities and rural municipalities and said that the Estonian government has not acted firmly on the price of electricity in the Estonian Energy Council.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U75	Thank you. I have not made such promises to halve the price of electricity or water, and I cannot comment on such promises. And neither has our party made such promises in its programme that the price of water and electricity should halve. As far as the management of Eesti Energia is concerned, the management and management of Eesti Energia really does not fall within the area of government of the Ministry of Agriculture. So I believe that it would be reasonable to ask such questions to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, whose area of government it belongs to, and who is the most competent to answer these questions and who knows the details. When the briefing comes to Juhan Parts, I'm sure you'll get an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U76	Please, Mr Vakra!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U77	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you very much. We're still talking about electricity today. When we discussed the issue of rising electricity prices with Prime Minister Andrus Ansip today and asked for his assessment of the IRL election promise that we would bring down electricity prices, the Prime Minister did not remember it because he was not the voter of the IRL. That was a reasonable answer. You, on the other hand, began to talk long and creatively about history, how all decisions have been made earlier, whether Tõnisson or Savisaar, and that these decisions have been made in the past, that price increases are inevitable. At the same time, I have here a paper actually stating the election ad, where the IRL specifically promises to reduce the price of electricity. Here's the question. If all this was known in advance, self-evident, since Savisaar and Tõnisson had taken such ridiculous decisions, how could you still have allowed two years to allow the IRL to drive electricity prices down?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U78	Thank you. I'm trying to explain. When I referred to previous decisions that have been made years ago, I do not believe that opening up the electricity market was in itself the wrong decision. I think it was the right and inevitable step, but from that moment of decision, it was known that the price of electricity would rise when it came to the moment of opening. So it wasn't news, and that decision didn't come as a big surprise to everyone at the turn of the year. Politicians who have been sitting in the Riigikogu for years, who have been in power at the time when these decisions were made, knew this very well. That's what made that promise. I repeat that I also treat the price reduction of electricity as a reduction in the price of electricity as a significant brake on the price increase and everything is done to ensure that the price increase is reduced. That is what I have already said, what has been done and what is being done to reduce home expenses, including the cost of electricity. So I dare say that without these decisions, the increase in home costs, including the increase in electricity prices, would certainly have been greater than it was now.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U79	Ladies and gentlemen, Our Question Time is running out. I thank all my colleagues in the Chamber for asking questions. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the ministers for their reply. Question Time is over.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U80	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the session of the 4th working week of the 5th plenary session of the Riigikogu on Wednesday. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now possible to pass on drafts and enquiries. Please, Marika Tuus-Laul!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U81	Good chairman of the sitting! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Centre Party Group, I have an inquiry to the Minister of the Environment, Keit Pentus-Rosimannus. The problem is the organisation of fishing on Lake Peipsi. This question has been raised and communicated to us by the Peipsi Recreational Fishermen Club. More broadly, there is a concern that both professional fishermen and recreational fishermen are getting smaller and smaller, while smaller sizes of fish are being caught that were not allowed to be caught in the past. Neither does Peipsi have a minimum size for bass. One problem is that fish are caught with large trawls, and recreational fishermen do not think it is right. It is also a question of coastal fishermen who used to have much higher fishing opportunities. At the moment, their opportunities have been tightened, and they fear that they will be lost at all. It is considered that Peipsi has become the property of the big fish-makers and that they should be obliged to shoot fish-mines at the lake. It was done very powerfully during the Russian era, and there were entire hatcheries for it. The problem is, for the last 20 years, only fish have been caught, but there's nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U82	Thank you. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U83	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, I will present an inquiry into the situation of injecting drug users to Ken-Marti Vaher, Minister of the Interior. There are 2 000 of them in Estonia, the average statistical figure is 15 for every 1000 inhabitants. Similar figures fall between 1 and 5 in the European Union, i.e. we have three times the number of injecting drug users from the country that we have left. Substitution treatment only gets 5% of them, 95% just walk around. This has also resulted in a high number of drug deaths due to overdoses of 146 deaths per million inhabitants in 2009. This is considerably more than in Norway, for example, which is the next country after us (there are 80 with something). All this makes us ask questions from the Home Secretary. A high level of drug addiction is usually considered to be the reason for the weak development of the country in the social spheres or for the police to be unable to do this work. We would like to find out who is responsible for this situation and find some possible solutions if, of course, the Minister can offer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U84	Thank you. Please, colleague Tarmo Tamm!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U85	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Centre Party Group, I have the honour to address an inquiry to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts. The content of the inquiry is errors in public procurement. As a result of the public procurement procedure opened in May 2010, Tallinna Teletorn concluded a contract with KMG Ehitus, but the company stopped the construction work a few months after the contract was concluded. There was no procurement to find a new builder, but it was agreed with one builder that it would build this object to the end. (It is still possible to do so.) The aim was to get this object ready by autumn 2011, as 2011 was the year of culture in Tallinn. Unfortunately, the renovated TV tower was still opened only in 2012 and as a result, Estonian taxpayers will have to pay 827246 euros. That's the price. It seems to me that this is the way it is in Estonia now, that these bills are paid in a dull manner and that no one is responsible for anything. We have four questions for the Minister. We hope that the Minister will clarify whether taxpayers' money can be so easily used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U86	Thank you. On behalf of the Executive Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted three inquiries. If inquiries comply with the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act, I shall forward them to the addressees immediately. Ladies and gentlemen, Now the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu adopted the following drafts and appointed leading committees for them. First of all, the Government of the Republic s. a Draft Act on Museums, initiated on 11 February, Leading Commission on Culture. Second, the Government of the Republic s. a draft law amending the Law of Obligations Act and the Code of Civil Procedure, initiated on 11 February, the Committee on Legal Affairs. Third, the Government of the Republic s. a draft Act on Accession to the 1996 Protocol to the 1972 Convention on the Prevention of Pollution from Waste and Other Substances, initiated on 11 February, Committee on the Environment. Fourth, the Government of the Republic s. a draft law on the amendment of the Code of Misdemeanour Procedure, initiated on 11 February, the lead committee, the Committee on Legal Affairs. Fifth, the Government of the Republic. a Draft Act on Supplementation to § 199 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, initiated on 11 February, Leading Commission, Legal Affairs Committee. Sixth, the National Defence Committee of the Riigikogu. a Draft decision of the Riigikogu "Use of the Defence Forces in fulfilling the international obligations of the Estonian State in the composition of the NATO Permanent Marine Force Group," presented on 11 February, the leading committee of the National Defence Committee. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu amended the draft of the Riigikogu decision "Proposal for the Government of the Republic" submitted by the Estonian Centre Party on 19 December 2012 and appointed the Constitutional Commission as the new lead committee. I passed an inquiry into the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher. Now, ladies and gentlemen, presence control. 82 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, none 19.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U87	Let's go to today's agenda. The first point is the second reading of the draft Act 341 on the ratification of the Treaty on the prevention of double taxation and prevention of tax evasion initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of Turkmenistan. I would like to ask Mr Remo Holsmer, Member of the Committee on Monetary Affairs, to serve as a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U88	Thank you very much. You have questions too. Let's start with my colleague Mart Nutis.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U89	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of this draft took place on 23 January and no amendments were tabled on 25 January. We made decisions on the second reading of the draft on 28 January in the Committee on Monetary Affairs. The Finance Committee decided to propose to the Riigikogu plenary that the second reading of the draft be stopped and that the draft be put to the final vote.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U90	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable waitress! Does the Commission have any information on how many people could be affected by this issue?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U91	Please, my colleague Urmas Klaas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U92	This was not discussed in the committee, but I have been in contact with the chairman of Turkmenistan's Estonian parliamentary group, according to whom the volume of investments between the two countries is estimated to be eight million euros. How can this be assessed in terms of number of people? I owe you an answer to that question. But the financial volume, I can tell.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U93	Thank you! Dear waitress, Did the Commission also mention what perspectives we see in the economic relations between these two friendly countries?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U94	The perspective is certainly a good one, as described by a representative of the ministry in the Commission. If the volume of investment is already 8 million, then there is certainly a need to think big, i.e. to strengthen relations and also to increase the volume of investment.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U95	Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U96	Thank you. I apologize for my ignorance, but who is the leader of this Turkmenistan Friendship Group?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U97	Please, Mr Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U98	The chairman is Mr Kalev Lillo.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U99	Thank you. Good waitress! Would you mention some specific measures agreed between Estonia and Turkmenistan to avoid double taxation and tax evasion?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U100	Good fellow Commissionman! As you know very well, double taxation agreements are terrafaretic for all countries, including Turkmenistan. There's nothing extraordinary here, and there's nothing special to point out.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U101	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr Remo Holsmer. Do colleagues want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. As no amendments have been tabled, we have the opportunity to adopt this draft as a law in the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I will final vote on the draft Act 341 on ratification of the Treaty on the Prevention of Double Taxation and Prevention of Tax Avoidance between the Government of the Republic of Estonia and the Government of Turkmenistan, initiated by the Government of the Republic of Estonia. Please vote! 62 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U102	Next, the second reading of the Bill of Amendment to the Maritime Safety Act and Ports Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask my colleague, Kalev Lillo, from the Committee on Economic Affairs, to serve as a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U103	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, I will give you an overview of the draft law amending the Maritime Safety Act and the Port Act 300 before the second reading. For the first time, this bill was in this Chamber on 30 November last year. No amendments were received from political groups, committees or members of the Riigikogu by the deadline. However, the initiator, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, sent five proposals for consideration to the lead committee. They were discussed in the Commission's working groups on 9 and 22 January and four amendments were formulated, two of which were technical and two were substantive. The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed these proposals for improvement at its meeting on 28 January and decided to give consensus to all. In addition, it was decided to send this draft to the Riigikogu for a second reading on 13 February, to propose to the assembly that the second reading of the draft be stopped and, if the second reading is completed, to carry out the third reading. a on 20 February, with a proposal to adopt the draft as a law. All these decisions were taken by consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U104	Thank you very much, Mr Kalev Lillo. No questions for the waitress. Do you want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. Four amendments to the draft law have been tabled, and we will review them. The first amendment has been tabled by the lead committee and the second, third and fourth amendments have been tabled by the lead committee. They've been fully accounted for. The second reading of bill 300 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U105	Second reading of the draft law amending the Law on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and their Precursors initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask Mr Reet Roos, Member of the Social Affairs Committee of the Speaker's Committee, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U106	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, On 28 January 2013, the Social Affairs Committee of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law amending the Law on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and their Precursors 259, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Helen Tralla, head of the legal field of the Ministry of Social Affairs, took part in the session as a representative of the initiator. The Commission decided to propose one amendment to the draft, specifying the glossary of subsection 51 of the Act on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and their Precursors set out in point 2 of the draft, according to which only the restriction laid down in subsection 11 of the Act on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and their Precursors applies to the handling of scheduled substances on the fifth list. In rural languages, this means that the handling of these substances is prohibited only if it is intended to cause a person to drink drugs. Once such use has been identified as such, it is a prohibited activity subject to regulation for illegal handling in accordance with the Law on Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances and the Penal Code. This is analogous to the illegal handling of other narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances currently on the list. If substances listed in the fifth list are not handled for the purpose of causing drug abuse, the handling of those substances shall be unrestricted. Industrially used as a rule, GBL is used. The Commission made its decisions by consensus and these were the following: firstly, to propose that the draft be placed on the plenary agenda today, and secondly, to propose that you stop reading the draft second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U107	Thank you very much, Mr Reet Roos. There are no questions for you. Thanks again! Do you want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. There is one amendment to the draft law, tabled by the commission of directors, which has been fully taken into account. Second reading of bill 259 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U108	Next, the first reading of the Bill 321 on Amendment to the Competition Act initiated by the Government of the Republic and related amendments to other laws. I would like to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Communications, Juhan Parts, to serve as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U109	Dear Chairman of the Riigikogu! Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! The Government will present a draft law amending the competition law and related amendments to other laws. Its main objective is to complement the powers of the Competition Authority with two new supervisory measures. First, the draft law provides for the power of the Competition Authority to accept undertakings' voluntary obligations and, second, for the possibility of imposing provisional measures on undertakings to comply with such measures in order to "improve competition' or to eliminate acts which infringe a competitive situation. These competences also derive from European Union law. The current situation is that the current law only gives the Competition Authority the opportunity to order the termination of the infringement and to impose fines, periodic penalty payments or other sanctions. Temporary measures, which are much more flexible and perhaps more practical to ensure competition, are not allowed by Estonian laws. In addition, the draft law provides for changes in the control of concentrations. A major change here is the obligation for the parties to concentrations to enforce the concentration no later than six months after approval of the concentration. So far, that deadline was longer. Why should this deadline be shorter? Following the authorisation of the concentration and the very lengthy delay in the conduct of the actual concentration, the authorisation of the concentration may essentially lose its adequacy. In addition, both the Competition Authority and the parties to the concentration will be given additional time to take on and analyse the obligations relating to the concentration in the case of problematic concentrations. The other amendments proposed by the draft concern mainly the addition and clarification of the various legislations to address the problems encountered in practice in the field of competition monitoring. The Competition Act clarifies and amends the procedural and liability provisions, further regulates international cooperation in the framework of competition supervision and specifies the links between the concept of special or exclusive rights and economic governance and public procurement law. In order to achieve this latter objective, it is also planned to repeal some of the standards from the late 1990s, which have not yet been used in practice. I explained the main content of the amendment to the competition law earlier. In this context, changes are also envisaged in the Electronic Communications Act, the Public Water Supply and Sewerage Act and the Penal Code. The law is intended to enter into force in general, with the exception of § 1 (8) of the draft, which is also due to lapse of the procedure for granting special and exclusive rights. This provision would enter into force on 1 January 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U110	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's start asking questions. Please, my colleague Andres Jalak!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U111	Thank you. Dear Minister, We will provide the Competition Authority with additional monitoring opportunities. Is there any example of what we have done so far that we have not had these opportunities?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U112	You could say yes. As I said, the responses of the Competition Authority in the current competition regulation are relatively similar. The infringement shall be fixed and sanctioned in any way by a fine or other penalty. However, if we look at promoting and ensuring competition, the real life, as well as all economic and business activities, is much more complicated. Creating opportunities for temporary measures or certain promises, agreements will make it more flexible for companies operating in the market, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, I think it will certainly encourage companies to be prepared to cooperate.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U113	Please, Mr Kallas!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U114	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. Estonia is one of the countries where criminal sanctions are provided for cartels. How do you assess whether this has contributed to improving the competitive situation or whether it is more of an obstacle to the procedure?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U115	Thank you. This draft does not specifically concern this issue, but I dare say my subjective opinion on which work should be done. This criminal classification of competition infringements may not, in fact, be the best solution. We know that there are various legal solutions. A breach of competition is still an independent violation of law and a developed approach to it. In other words, any violation of competition does not automatically mean that a criminal is stamped. This could actually be a place of consideration, which in turn does not mean that a number of procedural rules could not be transposed from wrong or penal law. But I think it's a subject we could deal with. This is certainly not easy, and I think that the changes should be well thought out before they are made.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U116	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I would now like to ask Mr Kallas, Chair of the Committee on Economic Affairs, for the floor.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U117	President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs of the Riigikogu discussed the draft law amending the Competition Act on 28 January. In addition to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Communications Juhan Parts, the Commission was invited by Mario Sõrm, expert of the Consumer and Competition Policy Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, and Juhan Põldroos, Head of the Competition Services Supervisory Department of the Competition Authority. After the presentation of the draft, there was a debate. The Commission's questions concerned, in particular, the penalties for cartels in market governance and their adequacy or inadequacy. We discussed, among other things, the dual punishment for the abuse of a dominant position. The first time, it is punishable by misdemeanor. If the same act is committed again, it is a criminal act, but in reality it is relatively difficult to carry out this procedure. In general, the adequacy of sanctions was also discussed as a preventive measure to prevent such infringements. Procedural issues were also under discussion, i.e. the obsolescence of misdemeanours, including the obsolescence of competition-related misdemeanours, whether it is sufficient to reach a solution that would help prevent these violations. In conclusion, we took three consensual decisions: to put the draft on the plenary agenda on 13 February, to propose that the first reading be closed and that the deadline for amendments be set at 5.15 p.m. on 13 March 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U118	Thank you very much, Mr Kallas. Please ask questions to the waitress! There are no questions. Thanks again. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. I shall set the deadline for the submission of amendments to draft 321. a 13 March at 5.15 p.m. First reading of the bill is complete. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll take the manager's break, five minutes!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U119	Ladies and gentlemen, The chairman's recess is over. We will proceed with the following point, which is the first reading of the draft law 354 on the granting of international protection to an alien initiated by the Government of the Republic and the related amendment of other laws. I ask Ken-Marti Vaheri, Minister of the Interior of the Speaker's Board, as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U120	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has initiated a draft law on granting international protection to an alien and related amendments to other laws. The draft is based on the programme of action of the Government of the Republic until 2015, according to which we will establish a single detention centre near Tallinn prison for the detention of asylum seekers and expulsions that threaten public policy or national security. This bill has two objectives. Firstly, we will turn the Police and Border Guard Board into a detention centre where, in addition to the expulsions, asylum seekers will also be allowed to be detained, with the permission of the administrative court, if necessary for the purpose of carrying out initial procedural measures or for reasons of public order or the protection of national security. Secondly, on a proposal from the Ministry of Social Affairs and on the basis of the comments made by the Chancellor of Justice, we establish the procedures and rates for covering the costs arising from the state budget when the recipient of international protection settles in a local government unit. The obligation to establish a detention centre for asylum seekers, the so-called "primary reception centre', has been in the Ministry of Social Affairs since 1997. To this day, this center has not been created. At the same time, there is a need for detention of asylum seekers, which will remain in the future in order to ensure internal security and avoid misuse of the right to asylum. The absence of a detention centre for asylum seekers has led to the arbitrary departure of asylum seekers from Estonia. For example, 25 asylum seekers left arbitrarily in 2012, representing 32% of all applicants. However, as a country, we are obliged to arrange for the return of asylum seekers to their country of origin who have been detained by another Schengen Member State but whose application for international protection has not been granted by Estonia. As far as the grounds for detention of asylum seekers are concerned, they are laid down in current law. In addition, we see in this draft that the asylum seeker may be detained for verification or verification of his or her nationality, for checking the legal bases for arrival and stay in the applicant country or for transferring him or her to the Member State responsible under the Dublin Regulation. These grounds are based on the practice of other Member States, as well as on the draft Reception Conditions Directive, which has been approved by the Member States and the European Parliament. As with expulsion detention, the proportionality of detention of an asylum seeker is assessed by the Administrative Court. It will continue to be possible to apply other surveillance measures to an asylum seeker, such as depositing a person's document or transferring it to an unsupervised reception centre called the asylum seekers' accommodation centre by means of a draft. Without more extensive implementation of the detention of asylum seekers, Estonia's reception system for asylum seekers is incomplete; it does not work. The possibility of detaining asylum seekers helps to ensure effective international protection procedures and supervision of those who take advantage of the asylum system of Estonia and the European Union, or who are a threat to public policy or national security. The need for detention of asylum seekers threatening the security of such countries or public order is obvious and the establishment of a hotspot cannot be delayed. The Ministry of Internal Affairs is therefore ready to take over the functions of the primary reception centre and, like Finland and Sweden, to establish a single detention centre where asylum seekers can be detained in addition to those to be deported under supervision and with the permission of the administrative court. This bill, honourable members of the Riigikogu, is designed to enter into force in the s. a 1 October. Thank you!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U121	Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. Let's start asking questions. Please, Mr Ossinovski!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U122	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I read in the explanatory memorandum of the bill that a unified detention centre would be set up near the prison in Tallinn. Could you explain how it would work there at the Tallinn prison and introduce some of the practices of other European countries? In which countries is the detention centre somehow related to the prison service, and in which countries is it located under other institutions?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U123	Thank you very much for your question. Until the Tallinn prison is completed, the detention centre will be in Harku. When the Tallinn prison is completed, the detention centre will be near the Tallinn prison. It's a remote center from the other inmates. As I mentioned, there is a similar principle, i.e. a single detention centre with both outgoing and asylum seekers, in Sweden and Finland. There are other practices. We have solved this problem in the most effective way possible. As I mentioned in my speech, we are extending the grounds for detention, in accordance with the practice of other Member States, and adding a few more bases, precisely to change the current situation. After all, those who apply for asylum are placed in Illuka's accommodation centre, where there is no monitoring, and a significant number of them leave for Europe's vast countries. Take, for example, the last case in May last year when we were dealing with quite a few citizens of the Democratic Republic of Congo. They left us almost immediately, within a week, and in France, they announced through social media how pleasant it is to be in the spacious and comfortable conditions of the European Union. In order to avoid such cases, we will create this detention centre and establish a common practice.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U124	Please, Mr Rait Maruse!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U125	Thank you! Mr. Minister! You said that the threat posed by asylum seekers to local order and national security is obvious and therefore one, two and three must be done. Can you give an example where public order and national security in Estonia have been compromised so that we should take such steps?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U126	Thank you very much for your question. I've got a lot of cases here from different years. An asylum application has been submitted by a national of a particular country who was carrying a firearm and was mentally unstable. The asylum application has been lodged by a person who has made the application under a false name. An asylum application has been filed by a citizen of another continent who was charged with forgery of the passport and also as a witness for refusing to testify in a criminal case for mediation of prostitution. A few years ago, an asylum application was filed by a citizen who attacked a security guard at the accommodation centre with a knife, according to a new bill.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U127	Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U128	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! Can you explain this a little bit? I didn't find all the answers in the explanatory memorandum. What is meant by the temporary accommodation of the applicant in the offices of the Police and Border Guard Board? What is this provision? What is the difference between those who are in the accommodation centre and those who are in the offices? And what kind of office are we talking about anyway?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U129	Thank you for your question. There are cases where it is likely that people will also need to be accommodated in the accommodation facilities of the IPA International Protection Service once the application for asylum has been filled in. Another option is to accommodate them in the reception centre of Illuka Asylum Seekers, in the accommodation centre according to the new draft. Accommodation in the accommodation rooms of the International Defence Service takes place in Tallinn, at the address Vilmsi 59.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U130	Please, colleague Yana Toom!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U131	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, As we know, we have prisons under the Ministry of Justice. However, the new centre that is to be set up should be the Ministry of the Interior. How is all this going to work for the prison in Tallinn? Who is subject to whom, and is there no vague situation in this regard?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U132	Thank you for your question. I dare say that there will be no vague situation, as it is still two separate institutions: one with a prison in Tallinn, the other with a detention centre. Of course, (and should) the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice cooperate very well in a wide range of areas. Perhaps the most obvious example is criminal proceedings. Since 2004, the Head of Criminal Procedure has been the prosecutor's office, which belongs to the administration of the Ministry of Justice, while the investigators belong to the administration of the Ministry of the Interior, but this is one of the criminal cases where they meet. I think that our challenge as a country will increasingly be to solve such social problems, where horizontal cooperation, which does not just go down the chain of command, along the hierarchy, but actually passes through different departments, is even more important. And it is inevitably the case that we have different authorities whose activities must be coordinated with each other. It seems to me that this is one of the essential components of modern management.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U133	Please, my colleague Urve Tiidus!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U134	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Minister, thank you very much. The explanatory memorandum to this draft provides statistics on asylum seekers in 2010 and 2011. During that time, their numbers have doubled. Are there estimates (forecasts may be much to say) about what the trend will be like in the future? How much interest can asylum seekers have in Estonia in the future?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U135	Thank you for your question. Estonia is the most competitive country with the lowest number of asylum applications in the European Union. We are going to fall short of even the country that is going to follow us, or the penultimate one, which should be Latvia, and there has been no significant increase in the number of applications in recent years. If you look at the statistics for Estonia in percentage terms and you see it as a percentage of tens, then it essentially means that 60 asylum applications have become 70. The country in the penultimate position receives them hundreds of years. I'm not going to talk at all about the countries around us. Sweden is numerically prominent if we also take the number of applications as a ratio of the total population. In Finland, this figure is much lower, but significantly higher than in Estonia. I dare say that these figures are not projected to be significant and will not even reach hundreds in the coming years, but you never know. It is also clear that Estonia's attractiveness will increase from year to year. Our attractiveness certainly does not rise in a climatic sense, because the climate is still crippled here. As a result, people do not want to come here very much, not the possible asylum seekers from the south, perhaps not so much from the east, but we will see. It is clear that the more Estonia's reputation as a small successful country rises compared to the other Eastern and Central European countries, the more it can be expected that the "intensity" of submitting applications will also increase. Much has been said this year about the 'Vietnam case'. I have a little chronology here about what really happened. At the beginning of February, 27 Vietnamese persons who did not have a legal basis for their stay in Estonia were indeed detained here. Seven of them had passports for nationals of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam, others had no documents. They were generally identified on the basis of statements. Statistics also show us that only one third of the persons who apply can be defined as nationals of one country or another on the basis of a specific travel document. Two thirds are essentially identified on the basis of their statements and other characteristics. But this is the latest development for these borderbreakers. Twenty citizens were placed at the expulsion centre on 6 February with the permission of the Administrative Court and the expulsion procedure was also initiated. Eight persons returned to Russia and were also subject to an entry ban as of 5 February for a period of five years.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U136	Please, Mr Ossinovski, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U137	Thank you. Minister, thank you very much. I cannot agree with you in any way that the climate is the reason why we have so few asylum applications. In such a case, it would be very difficult to explain why Finland, Sweden and Norway still have hundreds of times more of them. But my question concerns the signals that the country sends out to society about asylum seekers. As we know, we have generally had too little national attention in this area. So far, we have accommodated asylum seekers somewhere in the forest of Ida-Virumaa, where the most basic services are missing, both in terms of language learning and other integration measures. What kind of signal does it send to society if we put them in jail now? Doesn't that make it look like they're all criminals, which they're not, of course?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U138	First of all, as regards the first part of your question, which was rather a comment, it is certainly right to compare yourself with the Nordic countries. But I think that, now that we are talking about asylum applications and the state of Estonia as a whole, it would be more appropriate to compare ourselves with other Eastern and Central European countries, taking into account our climatic situation as well. These nuances are not of minor importance. The third nuance certainly concerns our police and border guards. I would appreciate their relevant and adequate work, especially those who arrive at the Estonian border, who are illegals who do not apply for asylum, but also those who submit it. In these cases, it is possible and will be possible to reject the asylum application immediately at the border, which is very specific grounds. I think that this is certainly the right approach if there is a basis for rejecting an asylum application. For example, if a person comes from a country in which there is no military or other situation that would force him to apply for asylum, to fall under the definition of a refugee, or if he comes from a third country defined as a peaceful country. There's more of these vessels. As has been said, as a third component, I dare point out the fairly effective work of our law enforcement authorities, border guards and police. At least we'll be able to react quickly. For example, the same case of citizens of the Democratic Republic of Congo, where, indeed, in the course of a week, very quickly was able to identify the so-called formula on the basis of which the country was arrived on the basis of false Belgian residence permits. When they had entered the country, they were placed in the reception centre of Illuka (new name "Hotel Centre') from where they left quickly towards France. This formula was tracked down within a few days and then the channel was actually shut down. In fact, there were other people in the Democratic Republic of Congo coming here who thought that a channel to Europe had opened up from here. But this was not done because the Estonian Border Guard was able to react. As far as the other side of your question is concerned, I do not think that this amendment will make such a negative assessment as if these persons were criminals. They're not criminals. They are persons who have arrived in Estonia and are illegal here or asylum seekers. As I said, an asylum application can already be lodged at the border. If it is accepted by the border guard, the police will follow a reasonable procedure in accordance with this law. Estonia is a highly valued country in the eyes of the European Union, because we can hold a person after 48 hours only with the permission of the administrative court. This has been highlighted by the European Union's evaluators, the rapporteurs, which means that the Court's supervision of all these procedures is thorough. Whose other supervision can it be if not an administrative court? In this sense, I think our system works quite well. What has not worked so far is the introduction of this same supervision. With this draft, we will put it in place. I think that the fact that there is also a detention centre outside the Tallinn prison, which belongs to the administration of another ministry (it was also asked about here), is an appropriate solution for our small country.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U139	Please, Mr Toom, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U140	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, When you answered Mr Urve Tiidus' question, you said that the forecast is as if very modest, that the number of applications may not even reach hundreds. At the same time, we know that the national programme 'Integrating Estonia 2020' is currently being implemented, which costs almost 50 million euros. According to this, one of the biggest challenges is that we are facing a huge wave of new immigrants. There's a certain contradiction here. What is the government's position, do we have to wait for this wave or not? And if this is to be expected, why should there be few asylum applications?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U141	Thank you for your question. Thank you for giving me the opportunity to explain. I meant more like the next few years. As I said, the faster our living environment becomes more attractive, the more we approach our good examples in Northern Europe in many indicators, the faster the signal goes out that Estonia is indeed an attractive small country, which, in a climatic sense, is quite far north. Nevertheless, the figures for Sweden, in particular, say significantly less about Finland, that the number of asylum applications in these countries is higher. These countries have enjoyed full freedom throughout the 20th century. We have not been able to do this, we have had 50 difficult years of occupation in the meantime. We've built ourselves up from scratch in 20 years. And the more successful this construction will be, the more attractive we will become to immigrants too. Thus, the long-term forecast for 10 to 20 years is certainly such that the number of asylum seekers in Estonia is increasing. There's no two ways of understanding here. The current situation is that it is less than a hundred, which is really a very small number. You could say that it is our duty to do everything in order for us to be prepared for the 'various waves' that can really arrive. They can come from external environmental agents that are not under our control. Take, for example, serious conflicts in the world. At the beginning of last year and at the end of last year, we talked about the Arab Spring. Now we are talking about the human disaster that is happening in Syria. It's a very difficult situation. If such incidents, unstable situations, I very much want to hope that this will not happen even closer to Europe and Estonia, then we can certainly be caught with such a wave, and our duty is to be ready for it. With this draft, we will significantly increase this readiness. The next step, which concerns the implementation of this bill, is certainly to complete the Tallinn prison and detention centre.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U142	Please, Mr Rait Maruse, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U143	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! Your voice and words were proud when you said that Estonia was by far the last in terms of the number of applications to be submitted and their satisfaction. Do you think you would be as proud as the Swedish State would have applied the same attitude to Estonian boat refugees who could have had a knife in the boat in 1944, and people who did not have documents would have been sent off the border immediately?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U144	Mr. Maruse! You know the cases that took place with Estonian refugees in the same country as you describe. I think that the countries are not very happy about what happened during World War II. I don't dare say that pride sounded in my tone of voice. I was talking about specific statistics and factorology concerning the arrival of asylum seekers in Estonia and the submission of asylum applications. The Republic of Estonia itself is in the process of significant integration. It's a pretty neat and powerful challenge anyway. I think that if something like this happened in Estonia, for example in Sweden, where the ratio of asylum seekers is quite the same as that of a large country, Germany, then putting such burdens on our small country would be a huge challenge and a serious task. There has not been such a wave in Estonia at the moment, but it has to be admitted that in the 1980s such a wave did pass through here. This took place in essence through colonisation, which was committed to Estonia under the conditions of the Soviet occupation. We certainly never want this to happen again to the Estonian state and to the Estonian nation.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U145	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. I call Mart Nut, a colleague of a member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, on the floor as a rapporteur.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U146	Madam Chairman! Honourable members of the Riigikogu! The Constitutional Commission discussed this draft law 354 on Monday, i.e. a at the ordinary session of 28 January. Ken-Marti Vaher, Minister of the Interior, Ele Russak and Ly Pärn, Advisers of the Department of Migration and Border Guard Policy of the Ministry of the Interior, Triin Raag, Head of the Estonian Human Rights Centre, Kari Käsper, Head of the Foundation, and Anne Veerpalu, Senior Justice Expert of the Refugees' Legal Clinic, were invited to the debate. In addition to the explanations provided by the government representative, other guests expressed their views on the draft. Kari Käsper of the Human Rights Centre pointed out that they believed that some of these changes, as well as a number of provisions of the current law, were somewhat contrary to legal provisions, including the Constitution and European Union and international law. He stressed that the logic seems to be that an asylum seeker is regarded as an illegal person whose arrival in Estonia is not recommended. Anne Veerpalu gave a concrete example when an asylum seeker, a 16-year-old Afghan boy, was sent to the expulsion centre in 2010. The visitors actually brought a lot of individual examples, but it is probably not appropriate to pass on everyone in this debate, because they do not describe the general situation as much as the situations involving specific people. At the same time, they deserve to be analysed quite clearly. In addition to these examples, Ele Russak replied that the Ministry of the Interior did not agree with the allegations that the draft would be in any way contrary to the Constitution, to European Union law or to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. He stressed that the European Court of Human Rights has repeatedly stated that the state must have the right to check the entry and stay of an alien and the right to detain a person in order to prevent his or her unauthorised entry or to ensure his or her expulsion. It must also be noted that the comments made by the Human Rights Centre concerned not only this bill but also the earlier legislation, the law on granting international protection to an alien as a whole. They stressed that the Chancellor of Justice had also drawn attention to possible contradictions with the Constitution in his opinion two years ago. The Chancellor of Justice is not very categorical in his wording, but he points out that § 33 (1) (I am not going to quote it now) may be contrary to §§ 20 and 11 of the Constitution. It therefore proposes to amend those provisions. Understandably, within the framework of this draft law, the whole law cannot be considered as a whole, but must approach the scope of the draft. Therefore, if there are shortcomings in this law, all of them cannot be resolved within the framework of this draft. However, the position of the Government of the Republic has also been that they do not see this contradiction at the time of the Chancellor of Justice's reference, and therefore there can be no obstacle to the processing of this bill on these issues. At the committee meeting, the chairman of the committee, Rait Marust, mentioned that it might be useful to ask the Chancellor of Justice for an additional opinion on this draft law. Visitors from the Human Rights Centre were also asked to draft their possible proposals as amendments so that they could be viewed in the context of the draft law. The Commission also proposed that the staff of the Ministry of the Interior and the people representing the Human Rights Centre discuss these possible provisions with a view to reaching consensus before the draft law reached second reading. The Commission was unanimous in its procedural decisions. The Commission took the decision to send this bill to the Riigikogu plenary on 13 February, i.e. today, to conclude the first reading and to submit the amendments by the deadline of 28 February 2013. Mart Nutt, member of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, was appointed rapporteur. As I mentioned, all these decisions were consensual. I would add so much that the Commission has also received proposals from the UNHCR, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, to complement the draft law. These proposals did not come at the initiative of the UNHCR, but were requested by the Ministry of the Interior. Unfortunately, the Commission has not yet been able to work on these proposals, as they only arrived yesterday. Before the second reading, it is probably appropriate to meet representatives of the UNHCR and discuss their proposals. The Commission also holds correspondence between the Chancellor of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior and a letter from the Human Rights Centre to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs. That's all I'd like to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U147	Thank you very much, Mr Mart Nutt. There are no questions for you. Thanks again. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments to draft 354 at 5.15 p.m. on 28 February 2013. First reading of Bill 354 is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U148	The last item on our agenda is the first reading of the Bill 350 on Amendment to the Chemicals Act, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like to ask the Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas, to serve as a waitress!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U149	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Dear Riigikogu! The Government of the Republic has initiated a draft law amending the Chemical Act, which aims to clarify the legal order of Estonia and to bring the current chemical law into line with the relevant regulations of the European Union. This mainly concerns REACH and CLP. Of course, we want to ensure that these regulations are implemented. The implementation of EU chemicals legislation will help to increase the safety of chemicals, i.e. reducing risks to human health, the environment and property. The draft does not create a new legal environment and does not impose any additional obligations on the company. The terms used in the Chemical Act are aligned with the wording of EU regulations. The labelling of chemicals also provides for one exception. In particular, if a chemical is intended to be used in scientific research or development, it may in future be supplied to the user with the consent of the recipient in this activity by a chemical whose labelling is not in Estonian but is in another language that can be understood by the recipient. This change is directly due to the fact that the interest of manufacturers or suppliers of chemicals, which are not "a commodity of general use," can be very small in order to translate the relevant materials into Estonian. And once the recipient has given his consent, for purely practical reasons, he may also be supplied with chemicals marked in another understandable language. The application of the Act adds additional tasks to the Health Board. In order to better comply with the national supervision obligation, the Agency will be given the responsibility of coordinating chemicals and their marketing and of checking the requirements for their manufacturers, importers, downstream users and distributors. Due to the implementation of EU regulations and requirements, monitoring in this area has become much more complex and labour-intensive and requires coordination and guidance from the European Union, as well as from the national authorities. The law could enter into force on a general basis on a proposal from the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U150	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask Mr Viktor Vassilyev a question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U151	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! I have been approached by local entrepreneurs who are involved in insect control. They're a little panicked because they're afraid they're gonna have a problem with the tools they've been using so far. Is it really right that you said that this change does not impose any obligations on the local producer? Local producers are claimed to be in difficulty due to these regulations. Everything that concerns the various chemical substances and their production is regulated by Brussels according to the interests of European corporations and they hardly take into account the wishes of the Estonian producer.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U152	Thank you. I would point out here that this is a transposition of the regulations in force in the European Union, which is why Estonia's playroom is limited in certain details. But I think that in order to clarify the concerns raised by your particular company, we will be more practical to resolve this issue in writing. Pass this information on to us, and with the help of experts, we can make sure that these concerns are true and, if so, that there are any conceivable solutions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U153	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev, the second question.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U154	Thank you, Madam President. Good minister! When we marched proudly, with our backs straight and upright, a few years ago into the slavery of the European Union, we were warned in advance that there might be regulations that would not suit us. Of course, then, we have sent our people to the European Parliament and wherever they should be protecting our interests. This, of course, is not directly your competence as Minister of Social Affairs, but as a member of the government, you should know whether the possibility of pulling our people from the sleeve in Brussels has been discussed at government level. May we make some kind of concessions or allow for differences, given that we're small, but we're also trying to be good.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U155	Thank you. Neither I nor the government as a whole agree with your view that Estonia has marched into slavery to the European Union. On the contrary, the people of Estonia have become very positive as a result of membership of the European Union, in very different dimensions. In this case, we are talking about chemical safety, which is that we protect human health, the environment and property. Therefore, it may not always be in the interests of the Estonian people to relax the requirements on these issues. Applying for differences at the expense of the health of Estonian people is probably not the direction we should strive for. Once again, since you had a very specific problem raised by a single product or group of products, I think it is more sensible to solve this as follows. We are not discussing this in this large Chamber, but we are asking the experts to see whether this problem is insurmountably unsolvable or whether certain solutions are possible.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U156	No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. I would now like to ask Mr Tamkivi, Member of the Committee on the Environment, to serve as a waitress.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U157	Honourable Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on the Environment of the Riigikogu convened to discuss this draft law on 29 January. Leelo Männik, Chief Specialist of the Environmental Health and Chemical Safety Unit of the Public Health Department of the Ministry of Social Affairs, was also invited. The Commission asked him a number of questions, but before that he gave a small overview of the draft law. Leelo Männik said, among other things, that this area, which is regulated by the law amendment, has, in large part, been in force as such with the laws of the Republic of Estonia so far. This is the application of European Union regulations to Estonian law. These regulations are directly applicable, they have existed in the past. Those regulations have been amended and have revealed the need for clarification: to remove duplicate provisions, to align terminology and to clarify the tasks of the competent authority, namely the Health Board, in particular to give it a supervisory and coordination function. In conclusion, Leelo Männik also said that the better Estonia meets the requirements of the European Union in this area, the less, of course, we have health and environmental risks. The members of the Commission were fully in agreement with this argument. It is quite clear that there are chemicals that are very dangerous to our health and the environment, and therefore their use and handling should certainly be controlled and regulated in all ways, so that these substances do not unduly enter the environment. Leelo Männik also said during the debate that the changes that come with this draft law do not affect any company more than they have been affected by the regulations in force previously. Following this discussion, the Commission reached consensus agreement and made the following decisions: to propose to the Riigikogu Board that 350 first readings be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu today, 13 February, to propose that the Riigikogu plenary session finish the first reading and to propose to the Riigikogu Board that the deadline for submitting amendments to the draft 350 be set at 27 February at 16:00. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-02-13_U158	Thank you very much, Mr Tamkivi. Looks like there's no questions for you. Thanks again. Do the delegates of the political groups want to open negotiations? No calls, no negotiations. I will set the deadline for the submission of amendments to draft 350 on 27 February 2013 at 4 p.m. First reading of bill 350 is complete. Ladies and gentlemen, we have gone through the entire agenda and the session is closed. Thank you very much. Closure of the sitting at 3.21 p.m.
