ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U1	Good afternoon, honourable Riigikogu. We will begin the Monday session of the third working week of the 6th plenary session of the Riigikogu. Ladies and gentlemen, it is now possible to pass on drafts and enquiries. Please, colleague Eiki Nestor!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U2	Hello, manager. Hello, Riigikogu! My respects! The question is for Jürgen Ligi, the Minister of Finance. We will soon discuss the state budget. This is based on our knowledge of the future of our economy. This year's tax receipts are the sum of the sum of normal; both social and income taxes are normal as wages have risen. However, tax receipts are a major anomaly in the case of two taxes: VAT and excise duties on fuel. The government has reduced the possible collection of these taxes both for this year and for the following year when it comes to economic forecasts and the state budget. There can be no reason for economic logic here. If revenue is higher and other taxes are collected, why are things bad in this area? It is all expected that VAT and fuel excise duties will be reduced by tax fraud, which has increased in number. The Committee on Monetary Affairs has discussed these matters honestly and openly. But the only thing that's left on our minds is that we don't know when the Government of the Republic wants to come up with its proposals. If the Riigikogu deals with this subject alone, it can reach solutions that do not work in real life. That is why we are asking the Minister of Finance when these amendments will come before us so that the Riigikogu can make decisions quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U3	Thank you. Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U4	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of five members of the Riigikogu, I will report an inquiry to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher. To begin with, I would like to remind you that there are chronic offenders. One of them is Eerik-Niles Kross, who, according to the criminal record, has received 11 sentences within three years. Of course, he is not a record man, there is also one minister who was supposed to have 32 sentences, but in 2011, for example, policemen stopped Kross five times over a year and a half, and he was deprived of command for three months. During the year, four infringements were added and in January 2013 Kross was deprived of command for six months. This spring, April and May, Kross was suspended twice more, with an additional fine of EUR 1300. In fact, Kross should not have been driving in the first place because he was still serving his sentence in January. When journalists have asked about the infringements, Kross has repeatedly made false statements. As a law-abiding citizen, I have always been interested in how some people manage to break the law and come out of the water dry a huge number of times. It would be appropriate to ask whether the excessive passion of one or another traffic hooligan, such as Mr Kross, can apologise for the violations of the law and, if so, which other than the violation of the traffic code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U5	Thank you. On behalf of the Governing Board, I have received two inquiries. If inquiries comply with the Riigikogu Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure Act, I will immediately send them to the addressees. Now the messages. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has adopted the following drafts and appointed leading committees for them: Priit Pikamäe, Chairman of the Supreme Court. A draft of the Riigikogu's decision of 18 September, "Freedom of a Member of the Supreme Court, Märt Rask, from the judicial office', of which the commission is the Committee on Constitutional Affairs; in the Group of the Estonian Centre Party. a draft law amending the Law on excise duties on alcohol, tobacco, fuel and electricity initiated on 18 September, the commission of which is the Committee on Monetary Affairs; in the Group of the Social Democratic Party. A draft law amending the Parental Benefits Act, initiated on 19 September 2004, of which the commission is the Social Affairs Committee. The Executive Board of the Riigikogu has forwarded the following to the Government of the Republic. Drafts and documents submitted to the Committee on European Union Affairs on 19 September 2004 Firstly, a draft Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a framework for market access and financial transparency of ports in the area of port services, and the Commission Communication 'Charter than a growth engine'. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed an Economic Commission to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic, the draft regulation and the communication. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 10 October 2010 at 4 p.m. Secondly, the European Commission's consultation paper on noise reduction by freight wagons in the European Union. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed an Economic Commission to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and on the consultation document. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 26 September 2010 at 4 p.m. Thirdly, a draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on certain rules governing actions for damages under the law of the Member States in the event of infringement of the competition law of the Member States and of the European Union. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Constitutional Affairs to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic and on the draft directive. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 10 October 2010 at 4 p.m. Fourthly, a draft directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on package travel and assisted travel arrangements and a Commission Communication on rules for package travel in the digital age. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed the Economic Commission and Legal Affairs Committee to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic, the draft directive and the communication. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 10 October 2010 at 4 p.m. Fifthly, the Communication from the Commission entitled "More rapid implementation of the Single European Sky', the draft Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council amending the Regulation in the field of aerodromes, air traffic management and air navigation services, and the draft Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the implementation of the Single European Sky initiative. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed an Economic Commission to give an opinion on the positions, communication and draft regulations of the Government of the Republic. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 10 October 2010 at 4 p.m. Sixthly, the draft Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on electronic invoicing in public procurement and the Commission Communication on electronic public procurement. The Board of the Riigikogu has appointed an Economic Commission to give an opinion on the positions of the Government of the Republic, the draft directive and the communication. The deadline for the submission of an opinion shall be s. 10 October 2010 at 4 p.m. I have forwarded an inquiry into the members of the Riigikogu to the Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas. Ladies and gentlemen, please let's do a presence check. 89 members of the Riigikogu registered as present, missing 12. Let's go to the adoption of this week's agenda. The agenda is on your desks. I shall put this week's agenda to the vote. Please vote! 85 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft agenda, no one opposed, with one abstention. The agenda is confirmed.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U6	We will start working on the points on today's agenda. Answering questions begins. The first question to be heard is the members of the Riigikogu Andres Anvelt, Indrek Saare, Mart Meri, Heljo Pikhofi, Eiki Nestor, Kalvi Kõr, Kajar Lemberi, Sven Mikeri, Karel Rüütli, Helmen Küti, Kalev Kotkas and Jevgeni Ossinovski's. A request for information on the conduct of the fight against drugs, submitted on 3 June 2004. My colleague, Andres Anvelt, to the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U7	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, At the end of spring or at the beginning of the summer, more specifically in June, the Social Democrats presented a question to the Minister of the Interior about such an important subject as the huge number of drug deaths in Estonia. Our group has come back to this difficult and worrying issue again and again during the working hours of the XII Riigikogu. In 2012, as you know, the number of drug deaths increased to 160, which raised us seven times as high as any other European country in this figure. In several responses, both ministers and the Prime Minister have stressed that the high number of drug deaths in Estonia has been caused by the widespread availability of alpha-methylfentanyl, or white Chinese, in our black market for narcotic drugs. That's right, too. However, we have drawn the Minister of the Interior's attention several times to the fact that, at least in our opinion, the high number of drug deaths has been directly due to the fact that street dealers are not particularly caught. Statistics clearly prove this. During the years when the number of drug deaths increased by dozens of cases, the number of drug offences related to fewer quantities in particular decreased steadily. The Minister's statement up to this year was that the priority of the Ministry of the Interior's administration was to catch drug lords, and street dealers were not a priority. At the beginning of this year, when tactics were changed, street dealers were actively targeted, and even a special unit was set up in the Northern Prefecture, the number of drug deaths decreased by almost half in the first quarter, or 44%. According to my information, this figure has also decreased later. This is a direct indication that the police's current anti-drug activity was not effective. The effectiveness of the police's innovative activities is also demonstrated by a marked increase in the statistical indicators related to drug crime. In order to explain the situation, to understand what has happened, how it has been possible that Estonia has fallen to such a disadvantage in terms of the number of drug deaths, and so many young people have lost their lives because of the poison that is spreading in the major cities of Estonia, we have six questions for the Minister. I hope that the Minister will read it before answering a question in order to maintain a better pace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U8	Thank you very much, Mr Anvelt. Please speak with the esteemed Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U9	Madam President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Dear questioners, thank you very much for your questioning. I'm sure we're all concerned about drug addiction and drug crime in Estonia, but I have to admit that there were some statements in the inquiry that I cannot agree with in any way. I will also read out these statements, which are made in particular on the first question. The first question was this: Is the Minister of the Interior willing to admit that the statistical increase in drug crimes is directly related to the reduction in drug deaths, in other words, has the change in tactics and the active pursuit of drug dealers by the police led to the reduction in drug deaths? " Despite the respect for your interest in the subject, your question and your labelling of the problem, I have to admit that I have not, for some time, seen such a one - way approach to drug crime and drug addiction as contained in this issue. I'm sorry, I can't accept that. In particular, your claim on the number of drug deaths is a cause of great opposition. As we know, the number of drug crimes as such, i.e. the number of criminal proceedings initiated, is also mechanical. This is definitely a statistical number, but we need to make a distinction, even between the different sections on the basis of which the criminal case has been initiated, whether it is § 183 'illegal treatment of a small amount of narcotic and psychotropic substances', § 184 'illegal treatment of a large amount of narcotic and psychotropic substances', § 185 'Transferring a narcotic and psychotropic substance to a person younger than eighteen years of age' or some other. If we are talking about drug deaths in this context, then my heart would be waiting for one or two wabbits that could solve this problem in Estonia, but unfortunately there is no such wonderwitch and such a black and white approach. We know, and I am sure the questioners know perfectly well that we can only succeed in reducing drug addiction and a smaller category of drug crime by combining a number of activities. For this reason, an action plan to reduce drug crime was established in the first half of last year, which is the main responsibility for the administration of the Ministry of Interior. It consists of several parts, which I can mention here. First, in the first half of last year, we focused on the most devastating substance in Estonia and focused mainly on synthetic opioid, which is extremely strong fentanyl, which unfortunately spreads and causes almost 80% of drug deaths in Estonia. Its focus was extremely important precisely because it is a highly conspiratory activity. fentanyl is known to be an extremely potent substance, i.e. a small amount of doses can be obtained, thus spreading drug addiction and causing a large number of drug deaths. That is why it was important to focus on it. This, of course, also required the allocation of significant resources. I can mention the following. Firstly, by 2012, EUR 1.6 million was allocated as a whole to improve the criminal police's procedural capacity. Secondly, EUR 315000 was allocated to the criminal police for the purchase of special equipment. Thirdly, in 2013, we have provided additional resources to provide the drug police in a number of precincts with the means of transport that are very important in their work. Fourthly, we have improved the capacity to obtain the proceeds of crime, which has been discussed quite several times in Parliament, but I will mention that. As you will remember, in autumn 2011, a separate Bureau for the detection of proceeds of crime was set up. Why am I talking about this in the context of reducing drug crime? As a result, one of the main areas of work of the CFI is precisely drug crime, as the proceeds of crime are confiscated in the majority of Estonia in drug cases. In 2011, this office was established, and during 2012, we tripled the membership of this unit. Currently, ten people work in this central unit for the detection of proceeds from crime, with seven more people working on this issue in the prefectures. We have also allocated additional resources to the CFI to motivate and recruit top experts who need to work in this very complex area. Fifthly, there is a significant change: the various lines of work of the Police and Border Guard Board are now better managed in order to achieve the objectives. I am thinking, in particular, of the division and cooperation between the law enforcement and criminal police and border guards. For example, the focus of the law enforcement police is to increasingly detect possible channels of drug distribution, to promptly report them to their good colleagues in the criminal police and to think through a better combination of these lines of work, in order to once again discover possible distribution networks and reach out to the organizers of this business, which is our highest objective. Sixthly, since the first half of 2012, there has been a clear trend that more street distribution channels should be detected and countered with specific resources. In early 2013, a street crime task force of the North Prefecture Drug Crimes Department was set up, bringing in six officials to discover distribution networks, in particular in the North Prefecture. Seventh, I'll bring out the special equipment that's been supplied to the criminal police. We will continue to modernise the special instruments both this year and next year. The specific instruments are designed to organise surveillance activities. As we know, in 70% of cases in Estonia, when a surveillance operation is decided, it is precisely drug cases, i.e. serious cases of drug crime. It is natural for us to keep up with the times and also to be a modern European country in terms of technical means. The direction is very clear: to break down networks of serious hidden crime and thus reduce drug crime in Estonia. I will summarise the answer to the first question. We have invested considerable resources in drug crime, the police's activities have been thought out and made more systematic. It is likely that this will also have a wider impact, i.e. reduce the supply of drugs on the market and lead to a reduction in drug deaths, in particular those caused by fentanyl. This year's statistics are promising, and I hope that this trend will continue. But it must be said once again that we need to look much wider at reducing drug addiction and drug deaths. Drug deaths in Estonia actually have decades ago causes that range from the middle of the 1990s when a sadly large group of drug addicts developed in Estonia. At present, experts estimate the number of drug users to be around 10,000. As you know, statistics say that nearly 80% of drug deaths are the deaths of long-term drug addicts. The second question: 'How has the reduction in the number of drug deaths affected the region? 'The police are fighting drugs all over the country. When we talk about so-called heavy or strong drugs, the risk areas here are primarily Tallinn, Harjumaa and Ida-Virumaa. This is confirmed by the geographical distribution of drug deaths. It can be pointed out that 113 people died of overdose in 2012 in Harjumaa and Tallinn and 37 in Ida-Virumaa. Question 3: 'How are things in Ida-Virumaa and especially in Narva? Is the Ministry of the Interior and the PBA in its jurisdiction planning the creation of an analogous street dealer unit in the work area of the Eastern Prefecture? ' I repeat, the Eastern Prefecture has also strengthened analytical and well-considered activities to identify both networks and drug trafficking organizers, or their peaks. Today, our goal is to fill the vacant posts that will inevitably arise in the Prefecture of the East. We have allocated additional resources for this purpose by 2013. There is no objective at tactical level to create a separate new unit, but that is, of course, decided by people on the ground. There can be a return to this once proposals have been received to plan a specific tactical action. Question 4: 'What additional measures is the Ministry of the Interior planning to reduce the number of drug deaths still on a huge European scale? ' Our direction is clear: to try and help to mingle other lines of action that are important in reducing drug addiction, in particular by channelling resources into prevention, of course, to help to try to obtain treatment and rehabilitation, for example, through the European financial perspective. But today we are talking about forward-looking activities, especially prevention. We have a new drug reduction policy document prepared with the Committee on the Government of Drugs Prevention, which, I think, is one of the most comprehensive documents that has so far been drawn up in this area. This policy paper, or the White Paper, gives a comprehensive vision, in cooperation with experts, of how to reduce drug problems considerably in Estonia. The reduction of drug deaths is certainly one of the clear objectives of this document. However, I repeat that the drug problem in Estonia can only be solved if the offer is reduced, universal prevention is addressed, problems are noticed early, damage is reduced, treatment and follow-up services are provided to addicts and the area is monitored. I have just mentioned seven areas in which this policy paper has also been drawn up to deal with in a comprehensive way. Of course, we want to continue in this direction in the coming years. Question 5: "How has the cooperation with other authorities of the Government of the Republic's Committee on Drugs gone? 'It has to be said that cooperation between the five ministries, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, Education and Science, Justice, Social Affairs and Finance, as well as between these agencies, has become closer and more substantial. But there is still a great deal of work to be done to clarify these roles, responsibilities and expectations. I think that the new drug reduction programme is a very clear basis for joint planning and implementation of actions that address drug problems. Last question: "What does the Minister of the Interior think can further be done by local authorities to reduce the number of drug deaths in different regions? ' I believe that local government has a significant role to play. Above all, they can be good partners in the key to prevention and intervention. Municipalities are precisely those who should and can provide a wide range of services and follow-up services, which should reduce addictive risks and risk behaviour. Unfortunately, many local authorities do not have enough health and counselling services to provide, for example, minors and their parents when minors are caught by the police using drugs. As early as possible, intervention would help to avoid an increase in the number of people with a severe addiction problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U10	Thank you very much. You have many questions. Starts with colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U11	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. This year, it must have been midsummer, I read in the paper information on how young soldiers were controlled. Among them were the discovery of an extraordinary number of drug addicts. I don't know if they could be called that, but in any case, they were smoking drugs. I remembered that there were 2.5% of young soldiers like this who were tested. That number was pretty high. Is the number of drug addicts in the Estonian Defence Forces a cause of concern and has this control continued to address the problem?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U12	Thank you for your question. You said you read the information that revealed that drug use was common. Of course, any spread of drug use is a cause for concern. We should do everything we can to improve people's awareness. In the case of armed forces or persons called for military service, awareness of what it means to try and experiment with drugs must be improved. The Ministry of Defence has a difficult task of improving the awareness of those called for military service. My message in this response, too, is that we have a significant number of drug addicts who are extremely expensive for the state to deal with, it takes a lot of time and effort, and there are very strong setbacks, because there are some setbacks in addiction treatment. But if we can contribute to prevention by channelling a significant amount of resources there and can prevent people from choosing the path of drug use, then we will avoid very serious consequences in many areas of society.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U13	Please, my colleague Andres Anvelt!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U14	Thank you. A very specific question awaits a very specific answer. You spoke of a very good result in the fight against drug deaths, which has been achieved because we are confiscating the proceeds of crime and we have an office for the detection of proceeds of crime. How many euros have been taken away by the CFI for crimes specifically related to fentanyl, whether several thousand or several million?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U15	Thank you for your question. I can tell you this amount once we have compiled, for example, the data on the confiscation of this year's proceeds. Crime revenue statistics are compiled by the Ministry of Justice. When it comes to fentanyl, it can naturally be removed separately. There have also been quite large criminal cases in recent months, during which the criminal proceeds of fentanyl distributors were, of course, first seized. I'd be happy to send you the statistics. I would like to clarify whether the data for 2013 and 2012 should be submitted separately or together. I can simply confirm that, of course, we have been focusing on fentanyl since the first half of 2012 and we will continue this work. However, I stress that fentanyl is a particularly conspirant activity. The quantities there are small because they are extremely strong. As has been said in public, it is likely that this substance will be brought to Estonia via various channels, with very serious work done on all these versions. For example, a few weeks ago, there was talk of some results, and I assume that there will be many more coming out in the near future. So yes, the focus is clearly on fentanyl; it has so far dominated the Estonian market and caused drug deaths. The supply of this substance needs to be significantly reduced.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U16	Please, colleague Aadu Black!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U17	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, You spoke very nicely and convincingly about the fact that drug problems are not resolvable on a case-by-case basis, but are a wide-ranging problem. I'm gonna ask you a wide question. I used to work in Sweden, so I read Swedish newspapers about nostalgia online. I am surprised that in Swedish drug-fighting, Estonia is commonly spoken of as a source of danger or as a drug corridor. No one is directly accused, it's just the case. Are we being harmed, or do you really see something like this happening in your work? Or is it already a defeated enemy? Would you describe to some extent our position as a possible or impossible drug corridor in Scandinavia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U18	Thank you for your question. The question of whether we are a transit country for drugs must be answered: we are a transit country like many other European countries. The problem of the Estonian market is certainly strong synthetic drugs. As a result, there is a relatively marginal market for natural opioids in Estonia, as fentanyl and its derivatives are the main rulers of the Estonian market. As far as other synthetic substances are concerned, there is a general concern in Europe that synthetic substances, which are also produced locally in Europe, are becoming more widespread. The market share of synthetic substances has also increased. Consequently, we can say that the transit or movement of drugs is still a serious concern. However, drug trafficking is also developing towards the fact that drug trafficking groups have often become very international. There are representatives of different nationalities in the international group who run this illegal business project. Estonians are also in a group with representatives of several other nationalities. Of course, not only do these groups have one market in mind, whether it is Estonia, Sweden, Finland or some other, but several markets, this substance is tried to be distributed as widely as possible. I think that in Estonia this distribution has been a second weight over the last ten years because we have also been able to review our laws considerably. We are one of the ten European countries in which up to life imprisonment is foreseen for the illegal treatment of large quantities of drugs. I think this is one of the reasons why, according to the criminal police, Estonia is rather being tried to avoid being caught and trying to choose markets with other sanctions rates and different penal practices. During the last ten years, the approach has spread in Estonia that the peaks of this business are increasingly viewed more rigorously and harshly. At the same time, I would like to emphasise once again that drug addiction and also drug deaths can only be reduced by a combination of very many activities. Estonia's problem so far has been that only a reduction in the supply of drugs has been addressed. Of course, as it turned out from what I read here, we have done a considerable amount, but there is still much to do. We contribute resources to reducing drug crime, or drug supply. But this area is, in my opinion, quite satisfactory compared to the lines of activity relating to rehabilitation and treatment, and certainly prevention. There is room for improvement considerably more. Why is that? It is likely that we need to look at what we have been doing over several years. But we must admit that, for example, treatment and rehabilitation are really extremely expensive for the taxpayer. If we sum up all the damage that a drug addict can cause to society, we will see that all of this is very costly. Therefore, unfortunately, there are no simple and quick solutions here. At least in the last two years, we have contributed significantly more to prevention, although our direct responsibility is to reduce the supply of drugs. We are trying to be a force joiner, a coordinator, but to a certain extent also a donor to help preventative action, because we inevitably feel the pain that drug addiction as a problem in society is causing most directly. Police officers are exposed to drug addicts on park benches and streets, they have to deal with offences, violations of public order, overdoses, etc. We want to be responsible partners for other authorities.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U19	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U20	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, My question relates to the third question of inquiry concerning Ida-Virumaa and Narva. Some time ago, we discussed the problem that there are a lot of vacancies in the Eastern Prefecture. Can you tell us what it is like with specialists in this area, whether all places are filled or people are missing and those who work are overloaded? That's one side of the question. Second of all, you were talking about local governments, I didn't hear about co-operation with them. Is the co-operation, if it works, programmed or based on projects, whether the cooperation document has been signed by two parties or was there more participants? How could this cooperation also be more effective with other partners?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U21	Thank you for your question. As you recall from my answer to the Eastern Prefecture, the composition there has been numerically the same. Of course, there are vacancies, they also have competitions. This year, there is a significantly greater chance that these vacant posts will be filled as salaries have been raised in the area of administration of the Ministry of the Interior, which has improved motivation. That's what we're going to do next year. Therefore, the preconditions have been created to make it easier to fill vacancies. Now, as far as I know, there are competitions for two posts in the Department of Drug Crimes in the Eastern Prefecture. Of course, filling posts depends on candidates, on their ability to take up their duties, because the DEA requires specific expertise and expertise. The readiness to start a service relationship must be on both sides. As far as municipalities are concerned, thank you for your question. At the end of my answer, I failed to mention examples of the role of local governments due to a lack of time. I pointed out that local governments have an important role to play, in particular, in providing services and follow-up services that reduce addictive risks. I am thinking here of services specifically intended for minors, which can, of course, only be offered to them with the consent of the parents. An example is for 2013. We have started this year in the Prefecture of the North, in cooperation with the Prosecutor's Office and the Mustamäe City Government, a pilot project entitled A Clean Future for those minors who have been caught using narcotic drugs. The project provides psychological assistance, counselling and training. Parents are also involved. The aim is to try to prevent young people who have been drugged from falling further into the hands of drugs, helping them to come back to normal life, not looking for a way out of drugs or falling into an escapism. That is why this project has been initiated. We can do that. The police and the Ministry of Home Affairs are prepared to do everything they can and to be the leader here when the municipalities come along. However, we have experienced in connection with this project that the readiness of the municipalities is relatively low, let us say so. Now the question is how to help one another instead of looking for reasons why there is little of this readiness in one place or another. We know that there are municipalities in Estonia that are really weak, but we cannot say that about Tallinn, it is the largest local government in Estonia. It has taken much longer than expected for this project to start. However, it has now been launched and four children are currently participating in this project, but of course this number will increase. We want to learn from this project and offer this model to others. Here we have examples from Scandinavian countries as an example. Such solutions are intended precisely to prevent tragic consequences.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U22	Please, colleague Helmen Hunter!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U23	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, Minister for the Interior, thank you very much for your comprehensive answers and review. As you said in your answers, prevention is indeed extremely important. But rehab is also very important and there are many ways to do so. In Viljandi, true, there is an open department at the hospital that does an excellent job in this area. However, a number of social workers have expressed concerns about the lack of treatment facilities for minors. Maybe you can say something positive? The projects have been very good, including an early notice project, which has taken place in cooperation with the municipalities. But if a child or a adolescent has already developed such addiction, it is very difficult to obtain treatment and withdrawal.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U24	This is a very correct point, and there is certainly a need to constantly draw attention to this issue. In my previous reply, I described a pilot project for minors. You're the one who's been asking about well-established addicted minors. These are very tragic cases. Admittedly, if a drug addiction develops in an adult, it may sound less tragic than a child's drug addiction. If a child has already developed drug addiction, this is a case that I believe should be dealt with as a matter of priority. These children should be given priority treatment and rehabilitation services. I assume that there are not many of these cases, because there is inevitably a limit to adulthood. If a child exceeds a certain age, we are talking about an adult. It is these two activities that are important, and perhaps a bit wider,: early detection and provision of social services for those caught with drug use, but who have not yet developed direct dependence. There are children who may think drug use is something cool because someone tried and said it was a really great experience. In order to lose that opinion, this is the pilot project I introduced. Of course, it is important to raise awareness; parents should also be involved in this work. Schools organise a wide range of information activities. This year, we want to start a separate system of information for parents, which should be on the initiative of the Ministry of the Interior and on our funding. So the subject of minors is very unambiguously focused. Your question is extremely correct, but the simple answer to it is, in my opinion, that if minors already have an established addiction, which is actually a physiological phenomenon, they should be dealt with as a matter of priority.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U25	Please, Mr Enn Frontland!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U26	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, Of course, drug trafficking is a major international business and must be combated individually by all countries, but international cooperation may be even more important. What is the state of Estonia here? Very often we have talked about our cooperation with the relevant organisations of the Republic of Finland, but what is our cooperation with other countries, such as Russia?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U27	Thank you for your question. We place considerable emphasis on international cooperation precisely because today's drug business is often international, it targets several markets at once. There are also people of different nationalities who organize drug trafficking. We have very good cooperation with Finland; I dare use this expression. We are also actively looking for points of cooperation with the Russian Federation at expert level, particularly because the problem of drug addiction in a country east of us is significant, and this also leads to the spread of synthetic opioids in this area. There are difficulties in finding cooperation, but we are trying to overcome them. Negotiations at expert level are taking place and cooperation is being sought. In Europe, including Europol, Estonia is in a very good position in terms of cooperation in my opinion. The emphasis placed on the international context is, in my opinion, also one key here, because we are inevitably in a common European market. As I said, the spread of synthetic substances is increasing. According to my memory, even a comparison has been made that a new synthetic drug is coming on the market every week in Europe, which has often not yet been included in the list of illicit drugs. This is indeed a difficult task, precisely in terms of international cooperation. It is necessary to identify how drugs are spreading, how information on new synthetic drugs can be transmitted and how Member States can react as quickly as possible to try to expel this substance from the market.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U28	Please, Mr Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U29	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. My question is about weed, specifically the medicine. What do you think about the wider use of cannabis? It is known that in some Member States of the European Union, cannabis is used more widely. In fact, it is also possible to use it in Estonia, although no one is taking this opportunity, because it is very, very difficult to obtain permission for this. What do you think about the medicine can?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U30	Thank you for your question. I'm afraid I'd go to a foreign territory if I started talking about drugs and the effects of a particular plant. I think that experts should still answer what this effect is and whether this plant can be used in Estonia. But I have also publicly commented quite often over the last month on proposals for the legalisation of a number of drugs. It is thought that such a step would reduce drug addiction. I'm sorry to bring this issue in right now! You specifically asked about cannabis, and here is my recommendation to ask the opinion of Estonian experts who can assess the effects of this plant. However, as far as the legalisation of drugs is concerned, I can simply comment on the fact that there are very few countries in Europe where some drugs are allowed, i.e. legal, and even then they can only be consumed in some specific places and under very strict rules. Of course, we need to make a distinction between legalisation and decriminalisation, and right now I'm talking about legalising drugs. In my opinion, it does not reduce drug addiction. There's just no proof of that. Rather, international practice shows that the illicit status of drugs keeps the drug market smaller and also reduces the spread of addiction compared to the situation where drugs were legalised. The Netherlands is one of the very few European countries, if not the only country that is allowed to use one specific drug, if it is done in specifically designated places under very strict rules, and not more. With regard to decriminalisation as such, unlike Finland, for example, the use of small quantities of drugs in Estonia is not a crime for its own benefit, but a misdemeanour. In Finland, this is a crime. This concerns the subject of decriminalisation in general.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U31	Please, Mr Viktor Vassilyev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U32	Madam President! Mr. Minister! Opioids are legally used in medicine, for example, opium derivatives can be used with morphine and codeine prescriptions. It was just a marginal note. But your people have done a lot of development plans, drug policy documents, pilot projects, they have developed prevention services, etc., but the number of drug deaths in Estonia is still increasing, the number of drug users is increasing, especially among children and young people, and we are three times ahead of Latvia in terms of the number of drug deaths. What's the matter? Are your subordinates doing their job badly, or are there other reasons for the increase in drug use, be it genetic, national, social, climatic? What reasons do you think these might be?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U33	Thank you for your question. Unfortunately, the arguments put forward in your question are not true. First of all, the number of drug deaths doesn't increase. On the contrary, the number of drug deaths has decreased in 2013, and we very much hope that this trend will continue. I have read from Parliament's speech today a number of activities that are likely to also play a role in reducing drug supply and drug crime in general and which have resulted in a reduction in drug deaths of around 30% this year. August was a pleasant month. The details are still coming, but the number of drug deaths reported at the moment is an incredible one, i.e. there was only one drug death in August. I'm afraid that's not really gonna be the case. Why am I talking about specified data? The Estonian Forensic Institute will carry out analyses and specify statistics for some time. For God's sake, there is no need to compare months, but I dare say that there is a trend in the reduction of drug deaths. That was the answer to your first plea. Your second claim was that drug use is increasing. The ESPAD 2011 study, comparing four years, showed that the number of drug users aged 15 to 16 does not increase, which is 30 to 32% and remains the same. In order to succeed in reducing drug addiction, very complex steps are needed. As far as drug use among minors is concerned, we are able to move below the current level. As I said, minors are a very clear focus group. We really want to do everything we can to prevent drug use among minors. Our numbers of drug addicts actually lie behind us in the last century. According to experts, the number of drug addicts has actually stabilised, even if it has not decreased. Their number is dared to offer around 10,000. Here, too, we can point out a positive trend, namely, that younger drug addicts are being reduced. Why do I dare say that? Statistics show that the average age of drug addicts has risen from year to year all the time and now exceeds 30 years of age. The average age of drug addicts was significantly lower a year ago. So, objectively speaking, there are certain trends in the positive direction. There is still a great deal to do. We are getting back to a policy document on reducing drug use or a White Paper, which should be a common basis, with values and principles and a very clear understanding of the evidence base. All these models, the prevention methodologies that we want to apply in Estonia, must be evidence-based, i.e. they must have shown clear results in the past. I think that once we can agree on the values, principles and common actions to be defined in this policy document, we can again move a step forward. It is necessary to combine the efforts of those who give everything to reduce drug addiction: representatives of the society, i.e. the non-profit sector, experts, municipalities, six ministries, whom I have already mentioned, who are directly or less in direct contact with drug addiction as a reduction in the problem, of course, also several authorities. Drug addiction can be found in a wide range of different sections of society. In the fight against this, progress can only be achieved if we make all the routes work as efficiently and systematically as possible. I've used the comparison that it's been a stool that's more or less worn one leg, the other legs have been relatively weak. We need to get this stool to wear as a whole. I've listed what we've done for this. I am pleased that others in this Parliament's speaking board will certainly be able to answer questions about drug addiction in the coming months.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U34	Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U35	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. It's not the first time we're talking about an anti-drug war here. To be honest, this has been a general one, and sometimes we don't know where we're going. My colleague, Frontland, asked about a foreign country. In Russia, methadone is used as a drug, we use it to treat people. Those who use drugs must definitely be brought back to society, but it requires hospitals and rehab centres. It's expensive fun, but what to do. That is why I have a question for you. Can you name specifically where the centres or hospitals in Estonia can go to explore their experience? I believe that this way we can expand our knowledge in this area.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U36	Thank you for your question. As the respected questioner Helmen Kütt pointed out earlier, Viljandi has treatment and rehabilitation facilities to wean addicts from drugs. In addition to medical rehabilitation, so-called social rehabilitation is also dealt with in Estonia. It is these activists that we have heard in the media and very good expert advice. These people often work very gratefully in the field of social rehabilitation. What do I mean by that? I mean, for example, the Village of Hope, which totally applies its own methodology and has its own funding. Representatives of the Village of Hope were present at the previous meeting of the Government Committee on Drug Prevention. We heard from them how the Village of Hope was built up and on the basis of what methodology they were working on. They have taken over one of the programs they practice in the United States to host drug addicts. The program has a religious foundation - a Christian program that may not be suitable for all, but is suitable for certain people. There are a dozen social rehabilitation centres. One might ask what is the result of the work of these centres, what percentage of addicts have been weaned from drug use, how many cases have been successful. This must be answered in such a way that no overall analysis has been carried out. We have just discussed this with representatives of the Institute for Health Development who promised to take this analysis into account in their work plan to assess the success of social rehabilitation centres. One step forward could, in my opinion, be that the best social rehabilitation programmes could receive clear support from the state. Currently, several centres actually operate on a private initiative, on the principle of society, they procure funding themselves, etc. It's all in addition to what the country offers. The state's offer is far from sufficient, but this is the state we are in. As you yourself rightly said, treatment and rehabilitation are very expensive. We must therefore do everything we can to prevent drug addiction problems, but of course these 10,000 drug addicts will not go away, and they also need to be dealt with. We also hope that the money from the new financial perspective will provide additional resources to help these people out of the ring of addiction.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U37	Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. No further questions for you. I will open negotiations and call on my colleague, Andres Anvelt, to speak.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U38	Madam President! Good minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know where to start. I asked if the Minister was willing to admit certain misdemeanours in the fight against drugs in the last two years. Of course, I did not hear the answer, which is understandable, because it would require political responsibility. The number of drug deaths increased steadily until the end of 2012. It did not go up and down, but it kept rising until the end of 2012, I recall. We have also pointed out from this remote control that there was an action plan, during which the number of drug deaths in Estonia made the biggest leap of 10 years, which can be imagined at all. We may have different action plans, but they're not counted by drug dealers or drug addicts, they're read by politicians. My question was whether the Minister of the Interior is willing to admit that certain misfires (maybe they cannot be said 'certain', rather they should be called serious misfires) in internal security policy have led to the loss of dozens and dozens of young people in Estonia. Of course, I didn't hear the answer. In the media, we have read a number of accusations or, how to say, self-righteousness. For example, the Minister of the Interior has told the Estonian Express that drug addiction cannot be reduced by penal policy alone. That's right. At the same time, Minister Pevkur, when he was still Minister of Social Affairs, said that reducing the supply of drugs was precisely the work of the police. In the meantime, the Minister of the Interior found that since I was the Director of the Central Criminal Police in 2003, when fentanyl arrived in Estonia, I am responsible for all this. In the light of this logic, it could also be concluded that his party partner, the mayor candidate, is responsible for the massive violation of traffic regulations by our Minister of the Interior ten years ago. Such conclusions could indeed be drawn, but that is not the point. I'm asking now about the drug strategy. A few months ago, current Minister of Justice, Hanno Pevkur, said that the fight against drugs had been launched. In the first quarter, there were 44% fewer drug deaths, and the Minister of Justice felt that this could be the result of a change in state policy last year, which, alongside drug importers and large groups, also made it possible to catch smaller dealers, which have already increased the number of convicted drug offences. That's what we asked the Minister of the Interior in our inquiry. The answer today was that statistics on drug deaths cannot be taken mechanically. Yes, it really is a question of how much statistics can be taken mechanically, but drug crimes have such a feature that a drug crime does not come to the police station itself if it is in the mood, not like Aunt Maali or Uncle Jüri, who has stolen a bicycle, for example. Aunt Maali or Uncle Jüri will decide whether or not to go to the police for this case, but the drug crime will only reach the statistics once the police have caught someone. At the beginning of this year, the police in the North Prefecture began to catch these criminals, perhaps what we have been talking about here for two years. The number of drug deaths will not decrease until the street drug supply is reduced. This offer had not been reduced so far. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U39	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U40	The same thing as the Minister said proves this: the number of drug deaths in Tallinn has decreased, but in Ida-Virumaa it is still large. Why? Because there are no drug dealers on the streets in Ida-Viru County. Yes, there are many problems in Ida-Virumaa, there are footage problems in the police in Ida-Virumaa, but my argument is that the problem of drug addiction has been reduced where street dealers are being caught, and where they are not, this problem is still big or even growing. The plan of action is a good thing in itself, the plan of action must be. It is essential to take away the proceeds from a drug criminal, otherwise the proceeds will be reinvested in the drug market. But nothing happens from the point of view of drug buyers without a fight on the street and without putting resources into it. As long as the goods are available to them, they will not replace the need for the next dose with anything else. Good Minister, I'm sorry, but I didn't get an answer to my question. What did I really ask you? Does the Minister of the Interior admit that, over the past two years, the internal security policy on drug deaths has been on the wrong track? The Minister of the Interior did not acknowledge this, unlike the Minister of Justice, who said very clearly in his interview that the change in policy has led to changes and this sad number has also decreased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U41	Thank you very much. Mr Stalnukhin, I would like to ask you to speak with my colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin. Eight minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U42	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Before I start my story, I need to correct the previous speaker, because the claim that the number of drug deaths has been constantly increasing in the past is not accurate. In 2001, there were 38 drug deaths, the next year the number exponentially rose, the drug death rate was 90, and then the number fell to 37. The jump followed again, the number increased to 99, the number decreased to 61 in 2005, the number increased for two years to 107, then the fall followed again, the drug death rate was 94, in 2009 140, then there was a sharp decline and the drug death rate was 104. So this process is a little more complicated, there hasn't been just stable growth. But now to what I want to say on my behalf. Surely some of you know that a little over a week ago, there were elections in thousands of Russian municipalities. We were followed by what was happening in Moscow and some of the larger regions, but in my opinion, what happened in Ekaterinburg was completely unnoticed in Estonia. It is one of the largest Russian cities, the third largest population, but there is nothing comparable to it in terms of industrial potential. There the mayor became the person with the last name Roizman, which is interesting in itself. He doesn't belong to the United Russia party, he doesn't belong to any political party, as far as I know. This person has been involved in the fight against drugs in Jekaterinburg for about the last 15 years. His election program was 'Let's make our town drug-free! '. Think of the importance of this problem when the inhabitants of a city with enormous industrial potential choose not a well-known politician as mayor, but a person who represents the third sector and deals with the fight against drugs. Someday we'll understand how important this is. Unfortunately, at the moment, everything is focusing only on one side of the problem. While sitting in this hall, I remembered a book by Erich Maria Remarque, where a lady relates about her late husband by predicting death by liquid, and he ran around like a fool by rivers and lakes, but died instead of a vodka. We only see these problems in the final stages. We don't see the social reasons why we actually have injecting drug addicts. The minister said that there were 5,000 10,000 of them, but the press says 5,000 20,000. Why do they even arise? In my opinion, the reasons here, like everywhere in the world, are clear: life is hopeless, pay low and there is general depression, which is reflected not only in our industry and our economy, but above all in our soul life. However, I did not come here to abuse the Minister, so I will do it some other time and on another subject. Instead, I want to express a certain optimism, even though you don't like it. I don't think there's anyone in this Chamber who remembers the composition of Riigikogu IX. This was the time when people in Estonia and specifically in the Riigikogu started talking about AIDS and HIV. I am now reminding you of a sentence that the entire Estonian media probably enjoyed very much, because it went through all the newspapers. A well-known member of the Reform Party Group said: 'What are we talking about here in the first place about AIDS? If you don't want to stay with the AIDS, keep your cock in your pants and you'll be fine. " That was the attitude in 1999. Why? Because then HIV and AIDS were the problem of Ida-Viru County. A few years later, the virus began to spread on a massive scale in Tallinn, and another year or two later it was already an all-Estonian problem. Let me give you an example to prove that the attitude began to change. Nelli Kalikova received Parliament thanks to the HIV and AIDS prevention work that she had done in Ida-Virumaa. It was appreciated. The social and national picture of drug users has also changed. Who was the injecting drug person years ago? A young Russian man from Lasnamägi. This year, however, Postimees wrote that now half the drug addicts are Estonian, half the drug addicts are from other nations. Every year, one might even say that every month, this problem will be taken more seriously and seriously. Drug addiction has long gone out of Ida-Virumaa, only a quarter of drug deaths take place in Ida-Virumaa, the rest of Estonia. In my opinion, this is a sign that, in the near future, not only will the Ministry of the Interior, but also the Ministry of Social Affairs, perhaps some others, be making efforts in this area. There's a lot of opportunities here. In a few years' time, I think we can talk about the reduction in the number of injecting drug users and the improvement in the overall picture. To this end, it needs to be understood that this is not only a problem for a young Russian man living in Lasnamägi, but is a problem for the whole Estonian population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U43	Mr Viktor Vassilyev, the speaker's colleague, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U44	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, Our Minister for the Interior had an excellent presentation in which he described everything that has been done, there are drug policy documents, pilot projects and all the great services that are being developed. But if I asked a specific question as to why we still have so many drugs, and why we have so many drug deaths, more than the closest neighbours, whether there are any other reasons than that there are few development plans and even poor existing ones, then I got such an interesting answer that the problem is at the root of the last century. Randomly or legally, but I've lived most of my life in this last century, and I don't remember that there would have been any major drug problem at all. In today's Estonia, one third of children and young people who go to school have been exposed to drugs. I honestly don't remember that when I went to school and college, I would have had a friend or acquaintance who would have known someone who would have seen a drug nearby. Yeah, there were legends that somebody was using something in a prison or in the military, but there was no problem with that. We didn't know what drugs were. So you can barely point the finger at the last century and blame it. Global reasons, but they certainly are. You see, it's a classic principle that social vices, like drugs and alcohol, have social causes. Nobody's lost this postulate, it's always been in place, and it's still in place. But to say that these reasons come from the last century or from the beginning of time, you should quote from the Scriptures that at first there was a word, and from where it all began. We live in a society where we have our problems. Look, a lot of people are desperate, they're depressed. Wages are low, home expenses are high, and the media are always pushing for some standard of living that we will never see in our normal lives. We are told that we must be proud, we must manage, we must live affluently, like the middle class, etc. You know, I'll give you a very simple example. If Robinson lived on a desert island, he had no sewers, no money, no ATM, no Internet, but he lived there I don't remember how long, for quite a while. He lived and worked to be free once, and he was free. But if somebody told citizen Robinson that there were decent Robinsons living in a neighbouring island who had ATMs, who built pension columns and bought coconuts at free market prices, but you, asshole, couldn't even get a bank loan, then Robinson would have hanged himself on the third day, and Daniel Defoel wouldn't have written us anything at all, we'd have been staring at comics so far. I look at these social problems. They're not getting any easier, they're not going to work out, because I don't see a clear economic programme right now that is aimed at the future, which would give us the hope that pensions and wages will still rise, but prices will fall. Can I have some more time?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U45	It's okay to hear about Robinson. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U46	Honestly, I won't say another word about Robinson, read literature, get smarter. If 100,000 people go to a psychiatrist every year, there's still something completely wrong. This means that a person cannot adapt to the virtual reality that is being imposed on him. Yes, you have to take a bank loan, you have to have SMS loans available, you have to be young and energetic, you have to deal with business, go to nightclubs, that's the standard of living that's being imposed on us. What does a person really see? That he doesn't have enough money to satisfy his immediate needs. When he thinks about his future, he sees his future as another 25 years of bank loan before he becomes the owner of his home. Those are the reasons. Until there is a clear programme of how to emerge from our economic situation, social problems will persist. That's where it all starts. We do not have enough money to support health care, we do not have enough money for social welfare services, we do not have enough money for subsidies. However, we should live in such a way that no subsidies are needed at all. In six years, I haven't seen any ray of sunshine that would allow things to get better. Yes, we are allowed all kinds of percentages, including 1.8% of economic growth. But how much will inflation increase over this period? No one lives a percentage, no one lives a percentage. To live, a person needs a solid standard of living, a real income. We can, of course, make more development plans; we can make them more and better. We can also count all drug dealers standing around school buildings in their car. The directors have the numbers of these cars written down, but the police aren't doing anything because they're supposed to be doing some kind of field work with them. They're probably taking interviews to make an even cooler development plan. But the problem isn't going to work out. However, the cause of the disease is not to be treated as a result of the advanced disease. As long as the cause lasts, we can't handle the disease. And the development plan 'Put it on or take it in' won't help a person in any way. I wouldn't want to be very negative. Often, the middle party is asked if we perform in front of the audience, why we abuse everything, why we are so negative. We're not negative, we're not! We look forward to the future because one and a half more years and then there will be Riigikogu elections and things will change. You can't go on like this. We want people not only to have newspapers and development plans ahead that they can read, but also to have bread on the table, to have a decent life, so that they do not have to roll the last pennies in their hands and think about how to pay off bank interest, but can confidently invest in children's education, in the interests of young people, and to allow their family to travel in the sun so that they do not need to be afraid of getting sick, and people will be proud that they will ever get insured old age days. Then you don't have to look for drugs, but people just live a whole, happy, drug-free life in their family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U47	No more calls, I'll finish the negotiations.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U48	We will go to the next inquiry, which Riigikogu members Karel Rüütli, Neeme Suur, Sven Mikko, Marianne Mikko, Rein Randver, Kajar Lember, Jevgeni Ossinovski, Helmen Küttt, Andres Anvelt, Lembit Kaljuvee, Kalvi Tõm, Jaan Õunapuu, Kalev Kotkas and Eiki Nestor presented in s. a on 6 June. The inquiry is about the organisation of marine and coastal pollution response capabilities. I would like to ask my colleague Karel Rüütel to speak first.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U49	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister, thank you very much. At the beginning of June, 14 members of the Riigikogu submitted an inquiry to the Minister of the Interior, Ken-Marti Vaher, on the organisation of marine and coastal pollution response capabilities. There have been several tanker accidents in Estonian waters this century. In 2000, 250 tonnes of crude oil leaked from a tanker standing in Muuga port to the Alhambra Sea, while Runner 4, a cargo ship that drowned in 2006, leaked 100 tonnes of petroleum products, and in October 2007, a smaller volume of coastal pollution occurred at the top of the Sõrve Peninsula. For many of us, however, the pollution that occurred on the northwest coast in winter 2006 has been particularly tragic in mind, covering a whole 35 km coastline, where up to 20,000 birds were killed and thanks to the help of volunteers, more than 10 tonnes of oil products were collected there. Two accidents have occurred with tankers at Aegna Island in recent years: in January 2010, a 244-meter Hong Kong-flagged tanker was in trouble and in October 2012 a 250-meter tanker was sailing under the Bahamian flag. Fortunately, both tankers were empty and the natural disaster outside Tallinn did not happen. Due to Estonia's special nature, the likelihood of emergencies occurring in the Baltic Sea must be assessed as high, i.e. once every ten years, and the consequences of marine pollution must be serious or very difficult. Estonia's maritime pollution response area is huge, active shipping takes place in an area of about 10,000 square kilometres, our highly articulated coastline has an overall length of 3794 kilometres, and we have almost 1,500 islands or widths. For many, optimism should be cooled by knowing that it is not a question of whether an oil spill takes place, but rather of when and where it takes place. With the expiry of single-hull tankers in the Baltic Sea, the risk of pollution was certainly reduced, while 30000 50000 tonnes of vessels are replaced or replaced by up to 150 000 tonnes of tankers, which make accidents significantly more massive. As a result, we have five questions for the Minister, which we want to find out about Estonia's ability to control marine and coastal pollution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U50	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister of the Interior of the speaker's desk, please.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U51	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Honourable Members of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. I will answer your questions in Question 346. The first question: 'What is the real situation of Estonia in its ability to control marine and coastal pollution? ' The marine pollution response is carried out by four ships: the vessels of the Police and Border Guard Board General Kurvits and Kat and the vessels of the Maritime Administration EVA-316 and the Sector. In terms of technical status, the PVL-101 General Kurvits and the vessels of the Maritime Administration acquired last year are in the best position. In addition to the ships and their booms (there are 800 metres of hangers in total on board), the Police and Border Guard Board has offshore booms and shore booms in different places along the coast in Estonia and two barges for transporting oil spills. Now for coastal pollution control. The ability of the Rescue Board to perform various harvesting operations in the event of coastal pollution has been developed on three levels. First, oil picking level 1. These are rescue commandos capable of carrying out simpler oil harvesting operations. Secondly, rescue commandos capable of carrying out both simpler and heavier oil harvesting operations on the seashore and on the shores. A brief description of the capabilities is as follows: '10000 litres of light and heavy petroleum products localisation and elimination capacity in land and water bodies. " We have four rescue commandos of this capacity: Haapsalu, Kopli, Tarvandi, and Kohtla-Järve rescue commandos. Third, level 3 of oil harvesting. This means the ability of the Rescue Board to localize mild, severe and very serious pollution. There is a national supply reserve located in the Kose logistics centre of the Rescue Board, which is also known to be new. This reserve shall be directed to the scene of the event. The aim of the capability is to provide the polluters with resources, i.e. additional skimmers, booms, hand tools and personal protective equipment. In addition, contractual and voluntary rescue commandos, members of the Voluntary Reservation Team and volunteers trained by the Estonian Nature Foundation will be involved as necessary. In total, over 300 volunteers have been trained. The second question: 'How much of HELCOM's minimum requirements have been met by its existing pollution response capabilities and when and with what means is it planned to achieve the minimum requirements of HELCOM? " First, a few important clarifications. HELCOM deals with marine pollution response capabilities, so it is particularly possible to talk about marine pollution response. Secondly, HELCOM has made minimum recommendations instead of imposing requirements. First of all, about half of the minimum HELCOM recommendation on marine pollution response capabilities has been met on the high seas. This recommendation is 4.5 square kilometers in 24 hours, and Estonia's current capacity is 2.4 square kilometers in 24 hours. In order to improve our capabilities, we are seeking European Union structural resources to acquire two multifunctional anti-pollution patrol vessels, which should improve their capabilities to 3 square kilometres within 24 hours. This means that one ship would replace PVL-202 and the other would provide additional capabilities. At the same time, an aid agreement has been concluded with the Republic of Finland. Finland can use its ships of 16, if necessary. The cooperation agreement will be prepared with the Republic of Latvia, which has 3 to 4 vessels. The agreements also include Estonia's assistance to Finland and Latvia if they need to include additional resources for pollution control in their maritime area. This should certainly be the way to ensure that, in future, all national structures, i.e. the Police and Border Guard Board, the Maritime Administration, the Navy, as well as the largest ships owned by the state, are equipped with anti-pollution capabilities. This would provide a common use of resources and improve capacity. Now for coastal pollution control capabilities. Although HELCOM does not deal directly with coastal pollution response, it can be noted that the Rescue Board has coastal sites of 2.3 kilometres, which ensures the capacity to eradicate up to 20 kilometres of coastal pollution. As a general rule, it is considered necessary for 10 km of nature reserve to be a kilometer of coastal sites. Finally, this capacity ensures that the Rescue Board is able to localize pollution of 2 miles [2.3 km] along the coast. The third question: 'What investments have been made in pollution capacity so far, and what is the investment plan? Please indicate the amounts as from 2006. ' I'll try to make it short. In 2004 there was a joint project between Estonia, Finland and Denmark. Estonia's share of the project was 500000 euros, and there were 2002 km of offshore stores. The next investment took place in 2006-2007 when the marine pollution control equipment on Kati (PVL-202) was replaced. The cost of the investment was EUR 1 million. In 2007, a laser technology-based pollution analyser LIDAR was acquired for the aircraft, which cost EUR 1 million. In 2007, a complex monitoring system was installed on the aircraft, costing EUR 3,7 million. In 2008, a container equipped with marine pollution control equipment was acquired at the West Prefecture, located in the port of Romessaare and cost EUR 136000. In 2012, a large investment was made when EUR 33 million was acquired by General Kurvits. Estonia's own contribution was 5 million euros. As I said, in the coming years, there will be a desire to acquire two multifunctional ships with a capacity for pollution and to replace obsolete aircraft with one new aircraft. It can be pointed out from the investments made by the Rescue Board that in 2006 and 2007 oil spill disposal and control funds were acquired and in 2008-2012. To date, a wide range of maintenance and control tools costing EUR 1.4 million. Question 4: 'The pollution control capability begins with the frequency of monitoring flights. With what frequency and number of hours have there been surveillance flights in 2006-2012? ' It can be said that monitoring flights were carried out, for example, in 2009 129, in 2010 85 and in 2011 around a hundred. The statistics for the first half of this year are 41. You can add one very important component. In recent years, there has also been a change in the monitoring of pollution to the more active use of the European Maritime Safety Agency's satellite images, which, even without surveillance flights or with a lower intensity, will allow possible areas of pollution to be detected and localised. Question 5: How is it planned to ensure that hundreds of volunteers (with EU funds) trained in managing the consequences of disasters are involved in situations where volunteering is not regulated at national level and organisations that bring together volunteers cannot receive public support? ' I need to correct the question. Voluntary work and inclusion are regulated at national level. It is regulated by the Rescue Act, including the participation of a voluntary rescuer in the activities of the Rescue Board, as well as the benefits of a voluntary rescuer and social guarantees. In addition, under the Rescue Act, other persons can also be involved and implemented to mitigate the consequences of a rescue event. Volunteers are involved on the basis of cooperation agreements. In order to improve oil harvesting in order to eliminate the consequences of disasters, the Rescue Board has concluded cooperation agreements with the Foundation Estonian Nature Foundation since 2007, as well as with the Non-profit Association Voluntary Reserve Rescue Group since 2008, the Non-profit Association Western Estonian Voluntary Reserve Rescue Group since 2011 and the Non-profit Association Southern Estonian Voluntary Reserve Rescue Group since 2013. The Estonian Nature Foundation has trained about 200 volunteers, the Voluntary Reserve Rescue Group 86, the Southern Estonian Reserve Rescue Group 85 and the West Estonian Reserve Rescue Group 33. Volunteers are therefore involved and will continue to be involved in the future. Thank you for your questions.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U52	Thank you, Minister. Asking questions begins. Please, colleague Valeri Korb!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U53	Thank you. Minister, I'd like to thank you very much. Many of the things you talked about, we saw three or four years ago when we reviewed all these programmes in the Committee on the Environment. More is said about the Baltic Sea, but Peipsi is somehow forgotten. I want to hear from you about the level of equipment and everything at Peipsi.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U54	Thank you for your question. Peipsi is one of the water bodies in the Republic of Estonia. It is an inland waterway. The same ability I described is there. I must say, in addition to the Rescue Board, I simply did not get to mention it before because of the time constraints, that we are also in the Rescue Board in 2014. Planned the purchase of a range of pollution response and harvesting facilities for 2010 for EUR 630000. Priority is the oil picking beam container, getting equipment for these harvests. The warmness of the beam container will also ensure additional capacity to localise oil spills and ensure that fine oil products can be collected from the water body. At the moment, there is no such technical capability. If the next financial perspective gives us the opportunity to do so, there are a number of activities that are intended to improve pollution response capabilities. Of course, the situation could always be better, but, as you can see, these investments are very expensive. I think that the Estonian state can afford such expenses at exactly the rate at which our revenues are increasing. Of course, efforts must be made to mobilise the money that comes from the European Union. It must be said that the European Union's financial perspective envisages programmes and opportunities to improve these capabilities.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U55	Please, Mr Karel Knight!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U56	Thank you, Mr President-in-Office. Good minister! As you yourself have said, the Estonian state does not have enough resources to contribute to this process and therefore about 50% of the minimum recommendations of HELCOM have been met. However, in accordance with the principle of environmental law of the European Union, the polluter-pays principle should also be applied in Estonia, which requires the contribution of those responsible for the risk. Despite promises to raise money in this way, the money found in the pollution response capacity is not from the outside, i.e. from those who are potentially responsible for this pollution, but from the taxpayer. However, the development plan for transport has foreseen that the Ministry of the Environment will set up an oil fund and bring a draft on this subject to the Riigikogu. Can you tell me if this is still on the coalition table, whether this is the way we consider finding more resources, or whether this bill is just gonna stay on the table?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U57	Thank you for your question. The issue of the oil fund has been, yes, a debate over the years. As far as I know, the topicality of this issue has been significantly reduced in recent years, particularly as the number of ships in our ports has decreased and, unfortunately, the number of subjects that could be taxed has decreased. The requirements for tankers have been tightened, which is why the idea of the oil fund has been assessed by the relevant ministries, in particular the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications and the Ministry of the Environment, is not such that we can receive sufficient assistance to meet the minimum recommendations. I have also received feedback from experts that, unfortunately, this idea is not what would solve our problems, and it is perhaps not the right thing to go on with it.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U58	Please, Mr Eldar Efendiev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U59	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I take this opportunity to take the opportunity to discuss the issue of marine and coastal pollution and not to ask a question on the issue of oil, but on the issue of natural problems. You remember two years ago that the so-called floating island, which was born in the Narva reservoir, suddenly ended up in the Narva River and created a major problem on the coast of Narva-Jõesuu. I have information that there might still be such a threat for two islands. How is this done now with Russia? At the time, cooperation was not the best.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U60	Thank you for your question. I don't dare answer you right now when I'm dealing with a particular case. In general terms, on this subject, which we are dealing with today, or the minimum requirements of HELCOM, Estonia is represented in this international collection by the Ministry of the Environment. The Ministry of the Interior is a partner here, whose activities relate primarily to our maritime area, the Rescue Board also has an important role to play in the ability to save pollution. So we could agree that this particular issue, which concerns Narva, will be answered separately and will do so in writing.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U61	Please, Mr Neeme the Great!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U62	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, We understand in the same way that Estonia still has a great deal of room for improvement so that pollution control can reach this level, as we really want, and what the HELCOM partners expect from us. But what would this be a good recipe or solution in the medium term? As is said and it is also known, we do not need to discuss whether there will be a major oil spill in the Baltic Sea that threatens the Estonian coast, but the question is when it will occur. When it comes to the nearest four to five years, what are the key issues of our ability to react?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U63	Thank you for your question. In the last four or five years, I think we have significantly improved our capabilities. So, as a country, we are ready to respond adequately to the tragedy that, hopefully, will never happen (but, of course, it will always be there). I mentioned steps to improve preparedness: cooperation with partners, for which we have concluded cooperation agreements with our closest neighbours, volunteers and their training, an additional request from the financial resources of the European Union in 2014‐2020. As you have heard, these sums are very large. The border guard ship General Kurvits paid 33 million euros, the Estonian state contributed 5 million euros and 28 million euros came from the European taxpayer. Those are huge sums. Unfortunately, as a small country, we can only contribute as much as our ability is. Of course, as I mentioned, we are calling for European Union funds to guide them in this area. I am pleased that during the previous financial perspective, a very large investment was made, namely the purchase of a border guard ship. Now we want to move forward with two patrol ships. Once again, in HELCOM, Estonia is represented by the Ministry of the Environment, and he is also negotiating the minimum recommendations. This is once again one place where authorities and ministries need to coordinate their activities. I stress this, in particular, because we are not taking on direct commitments there, but are still trying to be an adequate partner as a small country for those who may be expecting our help when it is difficult for them. This is mutual action, whether it is Finland, Latvia or perhaps another country near us. These are the basic lines to move forward.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U64	Thank you very much, Minister of the Interior. No further questions for you. Do colleagues want to negotiate? As I can see, there are no requests to speak, no negotiations will be opened.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U65	Now, ladies and gentlemen, after my hammer hit, it is possible to register for an appearance in a free microphone! Please, colleague Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U66	Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, It is strange that if I resent this remote control, I usually talk about things that you know without me, but if I want to say something good, I will actually do the Estonian media's work because you cannot read these news anywhere. Last week, I was talking about the new objects in my hometown of Narva that summer. I also showed about 15 pictures on the screen. I don't have any pictures today, but I can still tell you the dry stats. Today we held a conference which presented a study on the development of production companies in Narva in 2012 and the first half of 2013. What did you find out? The number of companies that do not pay wages has decreased several times (we are getting out of the crisis). This is not a very rare phenomenon when a company exists, it exists on paper, maybe even there are employees who maybe even do something, but they are not paid and there is no record of the company's activities in taxes. This year, the number of such companies is several times lower than in 2010. However, the overall number of companies has increased, quite remarkably. The payroll has grown by a very large amount. Let me give you an example. In 2010 (a study of this kind was carried out at the time) the average wage in Narva production companies was EUR 438; in summer this year, the average wage in Narva production companies was EUR 732. All these figures are better than the average in Estonia. In absolute numbers, we are still lagging behind, but the growth rate is faster than the average growth rate across Estonia. Two more positive news, which is certainly not reflected either by Estonian Television 'Actual Camera' or by Estonian Radio. The Narva Industrial Park was officially opened last Friday. It was rather a procedure after the procedure, which gave the opportunity to start registration of 500 workers, because there are still companies being built there, which need exactly 500 people at the end of the year. I'm sure you've heard of a company like Aquaphor doing water filters for the whole world. This company's new factory is coming to Narva now. Since the beginning of next year, 250 workers are planned there, and in the summer of next year, when the factory is fully operational, 380 people will start working there. I'm going to say the basic figures that don't match the information you read all the time in the newspapers and all the Internet portals. In 2010, more than 7300 unemployed people were registered in Narva. This year's latest figure was 3300 or 4,000 fewer unemployed than it was in 2010. I am very pleased that such positive processes are taking place in Estonia. What makes me happy is that it is happening in Ida-Virumaa and Narva. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-09-23_U67	Thank you very much. There's no more calls. The sitting is adjourned. Closure of the sitting at 5.02 p.m.
