ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U1	Dear Riigikogu, good morning! We will begin the Tuesday session of the 11th working week of the V plenary session of the Riigikogu. It is now possible to hand over drafts and enquiries. Please, Olga Soldier!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U2	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Together with six colleagues from the Central Party Group, I will hand over an inquiry into electronic cigarettes to the Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas. Alternative products such as electronic cigarettes are becoming increasingly popular. E-cigarette is an electronic device where either nicotine-containing or nicotine-free e-liquids can be used. The growing popularity of e-cigarettes is largely linked to the belief that it is not as harmful to health as conventional cigarettes. E-cigarette smoking has also become more popular among young people. This is particularly worrying, as compared to other European countries, Estonia takes the lead in the proportion of young people who have tried tobacco in their early teens. You can read from the web information about how e-cigarette creates the same or even more addictiveness as a regular cigarette. Unlike regular cigarettes, e-cigarette can be smoked indoors and in most public places. It allegedly does not force people to smoke passively, and there is no unpleasant smell of smoke. Furthermore, e-cigarette sellers point out that the consumption of electronic cigarettes is ultimately much cheaper than smoking regular cigarettes. On the basis of all these facts, we have a number of questions for Minister of Social Affairs, Taavi Rõivas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U3	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vasiliev!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U4	Ladies and gentlemen, The Social Democrats are persistent and therefore we will once again present a draft, which is borne out by the concern that the tax burden on people with low incomes in Estonia is unduly high, just as the proportion of taxes paid by them in all taxes. That is why we are presenting a bill that would lower the labour tax rate for people on low incomes and, in fact, for all people working in Estonia. The content of our draft is that in the next three years the tax-free rate could rise by EUR 192 per year. We have already tabled a similar bill once and it has been dealt with in this Chamber. The procedure was quite exciting, but unfortunately it was not possible to obtain a majority in this Chamber. That is why, being an extremely constructive opposition party, we have decided to remove from the draft the part that caused the coalition the most frustration, or the source of cover, concerning the annulment of the decision to set the tax rate. To this end, we were given the opportunity to present the newly completed economic forecast presented to us by the Ministry of Finance, according to which tax revenues will increase in 2014, compared to the summer forecast in force so far, at EUR 47 million. When we took out the part of social tax and tobacco and alcohol excise related to cultural capital, we found that an additional EUR 31.7 million would be collected, which is enough to adopt this draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U5	Thank you. On behalf of the Board of the Riigikogu, I have adopted a draft law. The Board of the Riigikogu decides to accept this procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and Homes Act of the Riigikogu. I have also accepted an inquiry on behalf of the Riigikogu's board. If it complies with the provisions of the Riigikogu Home and Rules of Procedure Act, the President of the Riigikogu shall forward it to the addressee without delay. Let's go to the messages. On Wednesday 17 April, the following members of the government will attend Question Time: Keit Pentus-Rosimannus, Minister of Finance Jürgen Ligi and Minister of Regional Affairs Siim-Valmar Kiisler, Minister of the Environment. The Chairman of the Riigikogu has forwarded the questioning of the members of the Riigikogu to Jaan Männik, Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Eesti Pank. Honourable members of the Riigikogu, today, after the end of the plenary session, there will be the formation of an Estonian-Brazil parliamentary group in this Chamber. The members of the Riigikogu are Andrei Korobeinik and Mart Nutt. Ladies and gentlemen, let's do a presence check. 84 members of the Riigikogu have registered to be present; no 17. We're going to the agenda today.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U6	The first item is the second reading of draft Law 373 of the 1996 Protocol to the 1972 Convention on the Prevention of Pollution from Waste and Other Substances, initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like a presentation by Eldar Efendiev, Member of the Environment Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U7	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Ladies and gentlemen, You have before you the second reading of the Act 373 of Accession to the 1996 Protocol to the 1972 Convention on the Prevention of Pollution from Waste and Other Substances. The first reading was completed on 13 March. a. The deadline for submitting amendments was set at 16 a.m. on 27 March this year. No amendments to the draft were tabled. The draft law introduces linguistic and technical changes which do not alter the content of the draft law. At the meeting of 8 April, the Committee on the Environment decided, first, to propose to the Board of the Riigikogu that the draft 373 second reading be placed on the plenary agenda of the Riigikogu on Tuesday 16 April. a and, secondly, propose to the Riigikogu plenary that the draft Act of Accession to the 1996 Protocol to the 1972 Convention on the Prevention of Pollution from Waste and Other Substances be adopted as a final vote and law. The decisions were consensual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U8	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Eldar Efendiev. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. No amendments to the draft have been tabled. The Governing Commission's proposal is to adopt draft 373. We will prepare the final vote. Dear Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft Act 373 on Accession to the 1996 Protocol to the 1972 Convention on the Prevention of Pollution from Wastes and Other Substances, initiated by the Government of the Republic. Please take a stand and vote. 78 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the draft and there were no respondents or abstentions. The bill has been passed as a law.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U9	Let's get to the next item. This is the first reading of the draft decision of the Riigikogu "Construction of the Estonian Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe' proposed by the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I would like a presentation by Vladimir Velman, Member of the Foreign Affairs Committee of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U10	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I present to you the decision of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Riigikogu concerning the draft amendment to the decision of the Riigikogu 'Constitution of the Estonian Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe'. No amendments were tabled by the deadline of 5 April at 4 p.m. At the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on 8 April, it was decided by consensus to propose to the Executive Board of the Riigikogu that the draft 409 be placed on the agenda of the plenary session of the Riigikogu on 16 April. The proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs is to conclude the first reading of the draft and to adopt it as a decision. The draft rapporteur for the Committee on Foreign Affairs at first reading is here the speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U11	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Vladimir Velman. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. No amendments to this draft have been tabled. We are beginning to prepare for the final vote, because the proposal of the commission is to adopt draft 409. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting on the draft decision of the Riigikogu, tabled by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, amending the decision of the Riigikogu 'Construction of the Estonian delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe', 409. Please take a stand and vote. 66 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour, and there were no respondents or abstentions. The draft has been adopted as a decision.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U12	The third item on our agenda today is the second reading of the draft Industrial Emissions Act 345 initiated by the Government of the Republic. I would like a presentation by Mr Kalle Palling, Member of the Committee on the Environment of the Chair.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U13	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The first reading of the draft Industrial Emissions Act 345 was completed. 23 January 2004 and the deadline for tabling amendments was set in s. February 6th at 4 p.m. No amendments to the draft were tabled. During the period between first and second reading, the draft was discussed at the meeting of the Commission on 26 February and the opinions of the representatives of the Estonian Chemical Industry Association, Viru Keemia Grupp AS and the Estonian Environmental Management Association were heard. At its meeting on 8 April, the Committee on the Environment decided to propose to the Riigikogu plenary to stop the second reading of the draft 345 and, when the second reading is completed, to send the draft to the third reading. The Committee on the Environment also finalised nine amendments, which specify some of the elements of the draft. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U14	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you, Kalle Palling! Do you want to open negotiations? There's no call. Nine amendments have been tabled by the commission, and we will examine them. Amendment 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9. The amendments have been examined. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the second reading of draft 345. Second reading is complete.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U15	Our fourth item today is the first reading of the Bill 382 of Amendment to the Law on the Organisation of Government of Paldiski initiated by the Group of the Isamaa and Res Publica Union and the Group of the Estonian Reform Party. I would like to present a speech chair for a member of the Riigikogu, Kalev Lillo!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U16	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am before you to introduce the draft submitted by the Pro Patria and Res Publica Union and the Estonian Reform Party on the law amending the Paldiski Government Organisation Act. The purpose of the amendment is to remove the legal gap in the assets of the City of Keila in the City of Paldiski as a city of Paldiski due to the restoration of independence. The Act includes a section which provides that the State may, on a one-off basis, support the City of Keila for the purpose of fulfilling its debt obligations. The grant may be both in cash and in kind. As a contribution in kind, the City of Keila may be granted a normal value of state-owned land, which is not subject to any restrictions on the further disposal of the City of Keila. I shall explain in detail why such a draft has been drawn up and what its background is. In 1994, the Paldiski Municipality Organisation Act was passed, which consisted of a total of six sections. The law provided for the organisation of a census as well as the way the City of Paldiski will operate under the laws of the Republic of Estonia. He foresaw the merging of the administrative territory of the city of Paldiski with the city of Keila, but he did not foresee in any word what would happen to the assets after the city of Paldiski was separated from Keila. The proposed draft fills this gap, which will enable the economic disputes that have arisen to be resolved. I want to settle a little mistake in the explanatory memorandum right now. Point 3 of the explanatory memorandum, entitled "Content of the draft text', states that the draft consists of three paragraphs. I regret to say that there are actually two paragraphs. The draft also states that the requirements laid down in § 33 and 34 of the State Assets Act on the disposal of assets do not apply to non-cash contributions. This means that if the City of Keila, for example, receives land and decides to dispose of it, it does not have to pay the State the part that the Treasury Act provides for. I think it's a review. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U17	Thank you. Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Kalev Lillo. I would like to ask for a co-presentation of the Chair, Marko Pomerants, Chair of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U18	Good afternoon, Mr President-in-Office. Ladies and gentlemen, I will present a report by the Commission on a draft 382. We had this debate in the Committee on Legal Affairs. On 8 April 2004 and in addition to one representative of the initiator of the draft, Kalev Lillo, who had already made his presentation, the Commission was also invited by the Head of the Department of Local Government and Regional Administration of the Ministry of Interior, Väino Tõimets, Deputy Head of the Treasury Department Tarmo Carrots, and Head of the Department of Local Government Financial Management of the Ministry of Finance Sulev Liivik. When discussing this draft within the Commission, there were, of course, a number of questions, such as why the government intervenes in a dispute between the two municipalities. The answer is simple: this is a very exceptional and unique situation in the history of the organisation of Estonian local government. This problem is specifically due to the Paldiski Municipality Organisation Act, which was adopted in 1994. One question was whether a similar practice could be used in the future if it was not a merger of local authorities but a division. We have come to the Commission's understanding that such a problem cannot arise in any way, because as simply as in the future in 1994, things will no longer be regulated. We also had, as I said, a representative of the Ministry of the Interior, who made some comments that it would be reasonable to take into account in the future procedure of the draft. One of the main points was that the last sentence of § 51 (1) of the draft text should be deleted, as this is not relevant in the draft. It was then noted that paragraph 2 should specify to whom the application referred to in paragraph 1 should be made. There were also comments on the explanatory memorandum and its clarification. Finally, there was a comment on paragraph 5 of the draft law that the person authorised by the Government of the Republic will represent the country when the agreement is concluded. Perhaps it could also be more specific here as to whether it is a representative of the Ministry of the Interior or the Ministry of Finance. As you know, all such proposals can be dealt with after the first reading is over and the deadline for amendments is over. We will certainly discuss these changes as an initiative within the Commission. It's the same with the explanatory note. Regardless of whether or not there will be a change, we have the opportunity to make the explanatory memorandum more precise so that future generations can understand equally what is meant, even in so far as it concerns the non-application of the requirements laid down in §§ 33 and 34 of the State Assets Act. The Commission, looking at the draft, having discussed the matter and finding answers to the questions, reached consensus decisions that the draft should be tabled for the first reading on 16 April, ending the first reading and setting the deadline for the amendments at 5.15 p.m. on 30 April 2013. I was appointed rapporteur. The report's done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U19	Any questions for the waitress? There are no questions. Thank you very much, Marko Pomerants. Do you want to open negotiations? You don't want to open negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to conclude the first reading of draft 382. First reading is complete. I will set the deadline for the submission of the 382 amendments. a on April 30, at 5.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U20	Our fifth item today is the first reading of the draft law amending the Electricity Market Act initiated by the Social Democratic Party Group and members of the Riigikogu Rainer Vakra, Inara Luigas, Lembit Kaljuvee, Deniss Borodichi and Kalle Laanet. I ask for a presentation of the speech chair of a member of the Riigikogu, Lembit Kaljuvee!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U21	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm on this bill for the second time this year. When I first defended this bill, the performers were Democrats and Social Democrats, and now the performers are Social Democrats and Democrats. Why did I agree to defend this bill for the second time? Because the basic idea of the draft is, of course, that you are all who more, who is less familiar with the explanatory memorandum and the draft, which I have most in mind, are putting justice on the table. There was a breakthrough 20 years ago in emissions quotas, air pollution legislation, all the policy in this area, which I already know 30 years ago, and both the European Union and Estonia began to deal with emission allowances very seriously. At the time, CO2 pollution in Estonia was about 40 million tonnes. At present, it is 12 to 15 million tonnes. The European Union has adopted very serious documents in this regard. America has been sought to include in this policy, to include Asia and our great neighbour, but, unfortunately, this involvement has still been relatively of little benefit. In fact, Estonia and the European Union have suffered enormous losses and costs. That is precisely what this allowance policy is about. When we say that in Estonia these figures are 40 million tonnes and 15 million tonnes, the difference is indeed multiple. While Estonia went this way, when the European Union went this way, it was said that we must keep the air clean and that the countries would come behind this policy. This policy had to be such that whoever pollutes less would receive revenue that would have to be used to create "cleaner renewable energy generation capacities." And if we now look at how Estonia has behaved here, then Estonia has acted as five men. Estonia has been a very large good child and a good one, and 15 have been reached since 40. Estonia has indeed received some income, we have been able to sell quotas and sell them against certain services. How well we've done it here is already much more material for discussion. There are both pros and cons, which has been proven with figures and emotions, but I would say, however, that the use of money from the sale of allowances has been so and so. The country has sold quotas and had to accept certain services. For example, we have bought electric cars. It doesn't exactly concern this bill, but indirectly it does. Could that money have been used better? We've built some systems, something's already gone wrong. I've asked quite a few people, a scientist, whether an electric car will eventually pollute less or more than a petrol truck of the same size. They have not been able to explain to me clearly whether an electric car is more useful to nature in general or not. Perhaps with this money, for example, electric batteries could have been purchased and large power plants built on them. It is said that there is little sun in Estonia. But the electric battery doesn't really need the sun to shine in the senite all the time. Enough light and the electric battery is already running, but with less power, still. That's one thing. The second issue is why the government wants to reject the draft. It is explained to us that this money is given to heat buildings, to heat homes. Yeah, I agree with that. We're heating up community buildings. But from the point of view of justice, why, for example, should Enn Fronta pay for the insulation of my apartment building through its electricity bill? He may like it, but I know Borodichi, for example, doesn't like it when he has to pay for the insulation of my apartment building through his electric bill. This is the aspect of justice. Can't we just go down this road and use this money to make sure our electricity bills don't grow so fast? This would be in line with the ideology that was put in place 20 years ago, according to which all people who consume energy should receive this'renewable energy' burden evenly, according to how they consume. It would be much fairer. Now, more specifically, to the bill. I talked about the background for a very long time, I'm sorry. If we look at the explanatory memorandum to the draft, I would like to stress that the aim of the draft is to ease the transition to an open electricity market for households and business consumers from 1 January this year. To this end, it is proposed to amend the electricity market law in such a way that the cost of financing renewable energy support will be borne by the State instead of the consumer. Where does the state get this money? He gets it from the sale of CO2 quotas. When I defended this bill for the first time, the money from the sale of CO2 quotas continued. The current prices of CO2 quotas are such that there is no more money left. And one of the reasons why the other side doesn't support this bill is because some scissors are seen here. However, I think that these scissors are temporary, because the European Union wants to artificially wake up the price of CO2 in the market again, and I think it will succeed. So if this bill were to enter into force, it would certainly be possible to obtain the necessary money from the sale of CO2 quotas. The European Union intervenes here in such a way that it simply takes away a certain amount of CO2 quotas from the market for a while. The proposal of the Socialists and Democrats is to think seriously about the draft and support it so that this reading is followed by a second one, and we will not end the procedure today. Let's think about it because it's serious. This is perhaps not so much a question of the euro cent, or even a little bit less money, which has to be paid less for kilowatts, but is also a matter of very large content and principle. That's all I got.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U22	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Please, Deniss Borodich!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U23	Thank you, President of the sitting. Good waitress! How do you think the current draft is consistent with the state's current tax policy? Take, for example, a reduction in income tax and income tax. I remember when this topic came to the hall several times, there was such a reason that we would give more money to a person, but he himself would decide how best to use it. Does it not seem to you that the proposed bill also fits this principle, because as a result of reducing a person's electricity bill, there is more money left for a person? For example, if he wants to renovate houses, he'll get the chance, and if he wants to do something else, he'll do something else. It's a liberal world view.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U24	Thank you. I, too, am always in favour of a person being able to decide for himself where he puts the money he deserves. So in a sense, here, yes, the coalition has a contradiction. In the same way, they say that we are giving more money, but in the case of the price of electricity, somehow, in the last six years, our ruling parties have gone this way, so that they do not slow down the increase in the price of electricity, but contribute to it. That electricity can be reduced, I never believed, and I don't think there's a person in this room who really believes it today. The question is whether we are putting the price increase down or slowing it down. One fair method of braking would certainly be, and that would be precisely through the mechanism that we are proposing. So the increase in electricity prices should be slowed down, and the reason why it should be done is again that there would be more money to share in this Chamber. If we can slow down the rise in electricity prices, our economy will grow faster and this will bring more money to this hall.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U25	Thank you. Please, Thomas Tõniste!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U26	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! I had the impression from your report that if we discussed a similar bill a few months ago, it would be as if the proceeds from the sale of allowances had covered the cost. I do remember that last time it was also a concern that about 70% of the hole was left. Can you elaborate on that?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U27	No, last time it was the other way around, with these figures, the quota money would have been higher than would have had to pay a renewable energy fee in the course of the year. So last time, it was the opposite. It's missing now, last time it was over.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U28	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U29	Thank you, Madam President. Dear waitress, Listening to this thorough eight-minute introduction, I have a few questions that do not directly concern this bill, but it would still be interesting to know. The trading of CO2 quotas in the European Union is all more or less clear, but what about elsewhere in the world? Am I right if I assume that those countries that have not joined the Kyoto Protocol, including the United States and China, for example by memory, are not required to have a CO2 quota mechanism? How much of the world does this system even belong to?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U30	Only the 500 million people living in the European Union are covered by this system. It cannot be said that other countries do not do this at all, in America and Russia these things are being dealt with, but they are so-called guiding actions. In third countries, electricity production is much cheaper because producers do not pay pollution penalties. There is no such harsh CO2 policy as exists in this small or large European Union of 500 million inhabitants in the rest of the world. If you go any further, too many people in the European Union do not believe that this policy is good and right. I have spoken to people in the field of energy who go to various conferences and congresses, where these issues are addressed not only by natureists but also by producers, and they say that there is still a 'corridor conversation' that, to put it mildly, this is not the smartest policy we are implementing on this issue.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U31	Thank you. Please, Thomas Tõniste, the second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U32	Thank you. I'm still gonna go a little further. In the minutes of the debate on a draft proposal similar to the one under discussion, the forecast quota revenue for 2013 was EUR 20 million. At the same time, we know that it will cost 65 million euros for grants. So two thirds were also missing at the time. Or have I misunderstood something?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U33	Since I don't have these papers in front of me, it's hard for me to argue. You need to look at the exact figures here. We'll take a look at these things. On this point, however, I maintain my position that the last time we came up with such a draft, we had sources shown, and they were higher than what was necessary to cover the cost of the draft. Unfortunately, this is not the case at the moment. From the figures, we can see that there is a shortage.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U34	Thank you. Please, Mikhail Stalnukhin, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U35	Thank you, Madam President. I support my colleague Tõniste, and I also have a bit of a tantrum. We have never talked about CO2 quota policy in depth. It is clear from your answer that 7% of the Earth's population living in the countries of the European Union is trying to pay for the damage produced worldwide. We have less than 20% of the world economy, the remaining 80% is peacefully producing CO2 and not thinking about anything, including very large and developed countries. Isn't it time to do something more serious? Why does the average European citizen have to pay for the negative environmental impact caused by the rest of the world and not by the European Union?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U36	I fully agree with you, Mikhail, that something serious should be done about this, especially given that the European Union's economy is far from doing well. But I have not fully understood where this power comes from, that the European Union does not, in my opinion, turn away from this most correct policy on emission allowances. I myself have thought that all things will finally work out, but this solution may be very sad for us in the sense that many questions will be resolved through trouble. Our economy is getting so complicated and difficult that we simply cannot afford to pay for the pollution produced by others.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U37	Thank you, please, Rannar Vasiliev.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U38	Thank you. I had the impression, from the questions in the Chamber, that the European Union taxpayer would pay off this quota of CO2 pollution. I have understood that this money is moving within the European Union, which is not to be paid out. Some countries that pollute more pay to other countries that pollute less. Is my logic correct? And if that logic is correct, is it quite correct to say that the taxpayer in the European Union is paying someone else something?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U39	Indirectly, Stalnukhin is right. We're basically producing more expensive, you're paying for this policy. On every bill, you see that you have a renewable energy fee, you pay it. There is no tax in the neighbouring country, and that means you will pay for this policy.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U40	Thank you. Please, Rannar Vasiliev, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U41	Thank you. If you look at the European Union in a compact way, the taxpayer of the European Union, among whom I am, will pay for it to all the other taxpayers of the European Union. The money received will be redistributed according to who pollutes more and who less. As this money remains in the European Union, it can, in principle, be said that there is a'redistributive' tax, i.e. the taxpayer will pay for it. Is my logic true in that sense?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U42	Yes, it does.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U43	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you, Lembit Kaljuvee! I would like to ask Mr Tõniste, Member of the Economic Commission for the Presidency, for a co-report.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U44	Mr President, I would like to thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Economic Affairs discussed this draft on 9 April. Deputy Secretary General of the Ministry of the Environment Meelis Münt was invited and Rein Vaks, Head of the Energy Market Department of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, who presented the positions of the Government of the Republic, gave further explanations and answered questions. MKM considers that, above all, the revenue mentioned in the draft should go to implement energy saving measures. Nor would the proceeds from the sale of the quota cover the necessary financing costs in any year during the period 2014 to 2020. Further measures are needed to cover the potential deficit of the state budget. The estimated cost in this period is approximately EUR 170 million. The representative of the Ministry of the Environment added that the planned quota funds would cover only half or 2/3 of the need in the draft, so 1/3 would not be covered. I will also give a brief overview of the issues and the debate at all. Interest was expressed as to whether it was appropriate to purchase electric cars from the proceeds of the sale of allowances. The answer was that, at the time of the decision, the choice was whether to purchase electric cars or not to use the proceeds of emission allowances at all. That is why the first option was used. The representative of the Ministry of the Environment was asked to explain the calculation of the forecast sales revenue from the auctioning of allowances indicated in the MKM letter. This revenue is forecast to be EUR 17,3 million in 2013 and EUR 16,1 million in 2014. The answer was that the price has fallen more than in previous estimates. If at the end of 2012, the price was EUR 8, then it has now fallen to EUR 4-5. No one could predict such a fall. Is the proposal by the initiators of the draft to reduce the amount of money allocated to KredEx to heat the houses, to withdraw money from the state budget in order to compensate for the increase in the price of electricity correct? This was one of the issues raised during the debate. More generally, it could be summarised as either compensating for the rise in electricity prices is a better idea than supporting families in need or raising pensions. The answer was perhaps not better, but fairer. The Commission decided unanimously to put the draft on the plenary agenda by 16 April. The proposal was to reject the draft, with 6 Commission members in favour and 3 against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U45	Thank you. Let's get to the questions. Please, Rein Randver!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U46	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable waitress! You have identified the total cost of 170 million. If you look at KredEx's current activities and abilities, what do you expect, how long will we heat the homes at this rate? As we know, KredEx was not able to pay for the work done by entrepreneurs in the first three months of this year, and the payment of the money to the entrepreneurs was delayed. Was this discussed in the Commission? How long can such confusion or ignorance continue?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U47	Thank you for your question. We did not have such a debate. But as far as I'm concerned, KredEx's money was responsible for the so-called income from emission allowances. As the first sales have now taken place and the money has been paid into the budget, disbursements should also be made in the near future. However, in the long term, it is up to us: as far as we are able to channel money into this measure and want to channel it, so much and so quickly the houses will be made energy-saving.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U48	Thank you. Please, Deniss Borodich, second question!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U49	Thank you, Mr President. Good waitress! You spoke in your report about justice. I recall how the CO2 quota trading system was created and what was the point. The idea was to encourage the development of renewable energy through the sale of CO2 quotas, i.e. in principle, to give an additional bonus to countries that are better able to achieve these objectives, they can sell, or they can generate revenue. In my opinion, it was intended that the state could further develop its renewable energy industry through this revenue. As far as I know, there are very few examples where the obligation to develop renewable energy lies with consumers through electricity bills. Do you still not think that it would be fairer to really channel the revenue that the state generates into renewable energy and people will decide after that whether they want to buy electric cars or whether they want to clean up the house as liberal economic policy envisages?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U50	Thank you. Basically, we can think like that in any area. To think that income tax goes back to businesses and that when people pay health insurance, they should be able to spend it in full themselves. But that's a nice way of thinking. At European Union level, the European Commission has made Estonia a priority to have 50% of its "revenues" into energy efficiency measures. That is what the Estonian state is doing.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U51	Thank you. Please, Jaan Apple Tree!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U52	Thank you, good manager. Honourable waitress! I remember that in the Commission, one of the government's main arguments was that quota-sale money does not cover the cost that is actually going to be charged for renewable energy every year. The amounts forecast by the Ministry of the Environment for this year are EUR 17.3 million for this year and EUR 16.1 million for the next year are, according to our data, too modest. Can you tell me what is going to be done with the money left over from KredEx? What goes to KredEx isn't all the money.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U53	Thank you. This was not the case this time in the Commission's debate. However, if I recall one debate on the Commission several months ago and the reply of the Government of the Republic at that time, the remaining part will be directed towards achieving budgetary balance.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U54	Thank you. Please, Karel Knight!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U55	One of Estonia's priorities in planning the European Union's structural resources for 2014 to 2020 is a clean and diverse natural environment and the efficient use of natural resources. According to several officials of the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Communications, the Estonian state does not intend to channel a cent of EU funds to support small renewable energy solutions. It's about small windmills, solar panels and solar collectors. Can you tell us what this attitude is about supporting renewable energy?
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U56	Honourable Vice-Chairman of the Riigikogu! Ladies and gentlemen, It would be a great pity if the coalition again missed the opportunity to meet people and reduce the price of electricity. The reason given by the Ministry of Economic Affairs is particularly cynical that the cost of energy is inevitable and that the cheapest energy is saved energy, especially for those who light the hallway and auxiliary rooms with summer sun lamps outside. The government's position, which says that this bill does not provide the best solution for the consumer, is also cynical and rather superficial in my opinion. I wonder, then, what is the government's position that would provide the best solution for the person who consumes electricity every day. The Government's response does not indicate which and how authoritative price forecasts the Ministry of the Environment relies on in forecasting EUA's auction revenue. According to our data, the annual sales of EUA of 9,98 million in 2013 at the EUA price level would receive EUR 40 million from Thomson Reuters and up to EUR 63 million from Bloomberg. The European Commission's proposal to collect 900 million EUAs from the market and to realise them in 2019/20 will be a very important price influence. This decision, if accepted by the Council of Ministers and the European Parliament, should significantly increase the price of EUAs in the European Commission's impact assessment. During the days of this year's rural municipalities and cities, the President of the Republic asked what the cost of Eesti Energia's profits is for domestic consumers and how much of the profits are used to increase the security of supply within Estonia, to build land lines and to facilitate the merger of land companies. And he also gave his assessment: 'No sign of firm action by the owner of Eesti Energia. ' I dare repeat from this remote control that the government has not wanted to deal with the lowering of electricity prices, even though the levers are there. It's just that today's bill that you've been presented over and over and over again, or that it's connected with the lowering of the electric excise duty. Another mantra that I have already said from here and I will say again today: during this government, home expenses have risen recordly. Compare today's accounts with 2011 and it is clear to you whether the IRL has fulfilled its election promises or whether they have become a laughing stock. Now for KredEx. Since the creation of KredEx, nearly 2% of existing dwellings have been insulated with their help. According to Statistics Estonia, there are 41 million square metres of dwellings in Estonia. According to the KredEx demonstration projects, nearly 50% of the energy consumption savings in the standard apartment building are achieved by a complex revision with an investment cost of EUR 125 per square metre. If the state plans to continue renovating apartment buildings at a rate of 2% over 10 years, it will cost EUR 10 million a year. Given that KredEx's contribution to renovation is limited to 35%, it costs EUR 3.5 million per year. Three more minutes, please!
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U57	Three more minutes.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U58	Thank you. I really don't know why they think that. I took up the minutes of the debate on an analogous draft several months ago and read here that the auction directive requires at least 50% of the quota revenue to be used for climate policy measures. Estonia, making use of the derogation provided for in the Directive, has received the right to direct a substantial part of the quota to be auctioned for the modernisation of electricity production and consumption by means of an investment plan approved by the European Commission. In 2013 it represents approximately 60-70% of the quota volume and would be approximately 10% in 2019 with a linear decrease. This leaves me with a clear understanding that a very large part of this revenue will be channelled into the production of renewable energy.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U59	No more questions for the waitress. Thank you very much. Do you want to open negotiations? Please, as a representative of the Group of the Social Democratic Party of Jaan Apple Tree.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U60	Thus, the talk that renewable energy cannot be supported by the sale of CO2 quotas because of the need to support energy savings is not correct. If a country still intends to take energy savings more effectively than before, what are its plans, at what pace should buildings be insulated? There are more and more questions. Dear coalition and fellow Members of the Riigikogu, I call on you today not to vote on this bill! The reason is very simple: let us finish the first reading, let us look at the bill once again and perhaps together we find that the taxpayer's concerns can be alleviated in the light of this bill, whether in all the amounts that we have brought out in the draft, or with the rest of the money that comes from the sale of quotas, but it does not cost KredEx. Let's think about it, and I hope you'll support us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-EE_2013-04-16_U61	Thank you. Any more calls? No requests, I'll close the negotiations. The proposal of the lead committee is to reject the draft at first reading. We have to vote through this. Let's get ready for the vote. Honourable Riigikogu, I am voting on the draft proposal of the commission to reject it at first reading. Please take a stand and vote. 43 members of the Riigikogu voted in favour of the proposal, 21 against and no abstentions. The Governing Commission's proposal was supported and draft 383 falls out of the procedure. Today's agenda is exhausted. I wish everyone a beautiful day and see you tomorrow! Closure of the sitting at 11.11.
