ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u1	Minister, my question was tabled two months ago for the attention of the Prime Minister, who did not wish to answer me. On 5 June 2018, Dunja Mijatovic, Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe, addressed a letter to the then Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, specifically asking Belgium to renounce the detention of children in closed centres. According to the Commissioner, "children should never be detained because of their migratory status or that of their parents". Many studies have also shown the serious damage that such confinement can cause to children. Belgium has also been condemned on several occasions by the European Court of Human Rights in this regard. We know that Didier Reynders, Minister for Foreign Affairs, has submitted his candidacy for the post of Secretary General of the Council of Europe, the main European body in the field of human rights. On 10 January, seven Belgian NGOs (the League of Human Rights, the Citizen Platform for Support to Refugees, Amnesty International French-speaking Belgium, Amnesty International Vlaanderen, CIRE, CNCD-11.11.11 and Médecins du Monde) sent a letter to the Prime Minister inviting Belgium to be coherent. It seems to them – and I agree with them – that Belgium cannot at the same time defend Mr Reynders' candidacy and not follow the recommendations emanating from the body he intends to lead. They call for "a solemn commitment by the government to end the detention of children in closed centres and to return to the use of open family units, as was the case between 2008 and 2018", before your government revives this practice seriously violating fundamental rights. Failing this, these NGOs intend to write to the member states of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe in order to denounce Belgium's dual speech. The signatories of this letter are by no means alone in claiming the end of this practice, considering the 329 Belgian organisations supporting the campaign entitled "We do not lock up a child. Point." Minister, do you intend to respond favourably to the request for consistency addressed to Belgium and urge the government to put an end to the detention of children in order to place Belgium "on the good side of history"?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u2	Madam Minister, my question concerns the Armenian Khmoyan family from Borgerhout, which has been living in Belgium since 2009 and which threatened to be expelled and imprisoned. The family with two daughters of eight and two was arrested on 8 January 2019. In the meantime, a lot has happened. It was taken to an open return center and I suppose it's still there. It is reported that the family is well integrated in our country. A return to Armenia would clearly be a tragedy for the family and its friends and acquaintances in Borgerhout. Ask the school and the neighborhood not to tell the family. The Borgerhout District College is also in line with the question; the Commissioner for Children's Rights also spoke out against expulsion. Madam Minister, in full awareness that this is not the place to discuss an individual dossier in detail, we ask, first of all, whether you can comment on both the expulsion decision and the detention decision. To what extent can both be justified in such a case? Secondly, how did the family pick up go? What time did the family get arrested? It is logical that a human approach should always be at the forefront. Was that the case? Thirdly, the imprisonment of children is unacceptable to the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. The negative impact on children must always be considered and therefore detention is never justified. Were all alternatives to detention investigated and already applied? Wasn't there any other way than to lock those kids up with their parents?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u3	Madam Secretary, I submitted my question a few months ago and so it is partly obsolete. The Armenian family was locked in the closed center for several weeks, in the housing units for families with children. The detention at that centre was extended because the family had appealed against the expulsion. Madam Minister, what steps has DVZ taken in the expulsion process, so from the negative decision so far? Was a trusted person appointed to supervise the expulsion process? I have read in the media that some things seem to have gone wrong in the expulsion: the family would not have received certain letters. Is that right? How many attempts at repatriation have already been made with less coercive measures? Was the voluntary return or return from an open return house supported, for example? The family's retention period was extended by two weeks. Was an assessment of the situation of minors made at the end of the two-week detention? What were the findings of this? Wasn't it a problem to extend the detention? In the meantime, we're a few months later. What is the status of the file today? Are there any elements in the file that would allow for regularisation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u4	Mr President, I have merged my two questions in order to save time. Minister, the Michel government has set up a wing for families with minor children in the closed centre 127bis. This measure should be considered as a last resort and should be limited to a maximum of two weeks, renewable on a single basis. You recently stated that, in the pursuit of our country's migration policy, your predecessor had lost sight of the human nature of this policy. In 2012, you also stated that you were satisfied with the results posted by the return houses and that this option was preferable to the confinement of minors in the closed centre, even if you found that the results could be improved. Last February, the United Nations Committee on the Protection of the Rights of the Child also addressed several recommendations to Belgium, as my colleague recalled. According to the press, among these recommendations is the call to put an end to the detention of minor children in a migratory environment. This recommendation would have been followed if the outgoing majority had not rejected the proposal for a law tabled by the Socialist Group in this respect. Unfortunately, this is not what is happening since on Tuesday, December 11, 2018, a Ukrainian family and its three children were detained in this family wing, as well as an Armenian family. At the time, the press reported alarming news about the mental health of one of this family's children as a result of internment. This brings me to the following questions: do you intend to pursue Mr Franken's policy by maintaining the possibility of keeping children in custody? Do you, on the contrary, intend to put an end to the scandal of the confinement of minors (who, let us recall, have committed no crime) and actively seek other ways to pursue your objectives? If you consider this measure as a last resort, what alternatives do you intend to build before using it? If so, what will be the justification for using it? With this in mind, what means do you intend to put on the table to promote and improve the results of alternative measures, particularly with regard to return homes, whether infrastructure or supervision? Are families currently locked up in this family wing? If so, why? Do you confirm that the UN Committee has sent recommendations to Belgium regarding the protection of the rights of the child? Can you give us this document? Does it contain a call for a clear end to the detention of minors in a migratory situation? If so, how do you intend to implement this recommendation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u5	Madam Minister, the Armenian Khmoyan family from Borgerhout has been waiting several weeks for repatriation after the application for regularisation was refused. First, the family stayed for four weeks in the closed family center of Steenokkerzeel. Afterwards it was taken to an open return home. The repatriation flight, scheduled for the beginning of February, was cancelled. Two doctors commented on the condition of the oldest eight-year-old daughter of the family. The child psychiatrist stated that the girl experienced severe mental consequences of confinement. DVZ's doctor had a different opinion on this. On the basis of the report of the child psychiatrist, the family was assigned an open return home. I do not question the expertise of the doctors, but the difference between the two diagnoses led to a breakthrough in favour of the family. That could be a precedent. Madam Secretary, why wasn't a third doctor involved? What is the current state of affairs in the file? What are the next steps? How is the return from the open return home progressing? If a first asylum procedure takes years before a ruling is followed, we can talk about too long a reasonable period of time. An applicant or family can only build a life here in anticipation. Otherwise, it is when a person or family initiates procedure after procedure and orders to leave the territory systematically ignores them. Is it possible to speak to the family of a reasonable period of time which has been exceeded? What's the history of the Khmoyan family file? You probably shouldn't give details about that. What will you do to avoid other families in the closed housing units starting extra time-winning procedures? So what if the issue becomes a precedent?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u6	Debates of the European Parliament 28943 by Mrs Grovonius has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u7	Thank you for your questions. I will group the answers somewhat, because many Members have asked the same questions. Mrs Waterschoot, you know that when a stay is not granted and the alternatives to unrelenting removal have been exhausted and those concerned are trying to circumvent the order to leave the territory, it is important to find a solution to repatriate these families in humane conditions. In 2009, it had been decided that this could be done by using family housing built in a closed enclosure and adapted to the needs of minor children. This measure required a specific legal framework, but it also required, and above all, that the infrastructure provided in a closed environment should meet the conditions imposed by the European Court of Human Rights and be adapted to the needs of children. Several Members have asked for details of the family file, including Mr De Vriendt and Mrs Smeyers. I have never given statements from files concerning psychiatric reports and procedures of individual families, and I will abide by that. However, I would like to clarify the procedures in force regarding the return of families in irregular residence. Mr De Vriendt, it goes without saying that the detention and forced return of persons and families who are not entitled to stay in our country are the last and most necessary links in the system of cascades used by the government. If these decisions and measures are taken, then by definition all other alternatives have failed. These include families who have either failed to respond to a voluntary return offer, either through their own resources or through an open reception structure and in some cases even from their own private home, or have ignored multiple orders to leave the territory, and/or start a new procedure each time. The execution of a forced return involves many stages to be completed. At the same time, there is a strong commitment to the correct provision of information and to the proper supervision or framing of the family in question. In the event that it becomes impossible to return from an open return unit, for example because an illegal family leaves and hides, and alternatives prove impossible and without result, a return from a family home in a closed environment is the only alternative. Like Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, you also asked about possible alternatives. Alternatives to detention are always examined and offered, but in certain cases there is no alternative but to proceed to a form of detention, albeit under clear conditions regarding the adaptation of the environment to the needs of families with under-age children. Mrs Lanjri, I repeat that I do not go into details from individual files. I can only inform you that several orders were indeed issued to leave the territory over several years. A thorough assessment of the situation is still being carried out, even before the end of the first two weeks. Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, as well as in response to Mrs Grovonius who is absent, as I have already explained at the beginning of the reply, it is important to find a solution to repatriate these families in humane conditions. In 2009, it had already been decided that this could be done by using family housing built in a closed enclosure, adapted to the needs of minors. I would like to point out that your party was part of the government at the time. The policy of expulsion is pursued by the government, i.e. voluntary removal if possible and forced if necessary. With regard to your question on the means I can put on the table to effectively develop alternative measures, I can tell you that I am always open to constructive and realistic suggestions that result in a return. But this must be a return. This cannot be an alternative that allows people to stay here for years and that history repeats itself. With regard to your question as to whether, at present, families are being held, I can inform you that no family currently resides in individual homes on the 127bis site. With regard to the various questions concerning the recommendations of the United Nations, I confirm that I am aware of the report, which is public. The latter calls for an end to the confinement of children. In this context, I recall once again what I have already explained in detail, namely that this solution is only implemented when there is no other option. Belgian legislation which provides for this possibility is in line with European legislation in this field. It should also be noted that Mr Bossuyt, in his large report on return, mentioned that it may sometimes be necessary, in the short term, to place children in closed centres. He weighed all the elements at stake. He's done a good job of weighing things up. This is explicitly stated in the Bossuyt report. Mrs. Smeyers, you give a lot of details about psychiatric advice. You will understand that I am committed to professional secrecy and will certainly not quote from the file. Your first two questions concerned more information from the individual file, including the child. As always and in order to avoid a deliberately delayed procedure, the organisation of the return shall take place as soon as possible after the suspension procedure has ended. It's a dissuading thing in itself. However, in order to address this problem in a fundamental way, new legislation is needed in this area. Unfortunately, we cannot take care of this, because the government is in current affairs, but I think it can be dealt with. Even if people end up in the closed family centre, there is still the possibility of a voluntary return. Assistance is provided by the IOM or other organisations. So we will continue to offer this, even if they are already in the closed family centre. It has been dealt with in rare times, but still, as much better as they are going to deal with it. Other families are inspired by a lawyer who is willing to raise another matter of procedure or, as at present, to submit a new application, but in the name of a child. In order to avoid this, legislation will have to be changed. That gives inspiration for the next few months.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u8	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. So you will not end the confinement of children! You refer to the Bossuyt report which refers to this possibility, but do not listen to the convictions of the European Court of Human Rights. There is therefore a twofold speech: to run for a mandate in the highest European body in the field of human rights and not to comply with its recommendations. You are also against Belgium's multilateral commitments. I do not share your point of view, when you speak of "human condition" by referring to the confinement of children. In the end, the 7 NGOs and 329 Belgian associations will enjoy, as well as children.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u9	Madam Minister, in such cases, it is of course always necessary to consider whether or not a family with children can have the right to stay here. That is why we need to know the complete dossier, but we do not have access to it. When it comes to a 9a application, that is actually to your discretion. Nevertheless, there are elements worth presenting to Parliament. The procedure has lasted a year and a half in the past, which is actually too long. Luckily, the deadlines are much shorter these days. In addition, there would be too little guidance in the previous stages, prior to the imprisonment of the family in a family unit. You have listed those stages. There would have been too little guidance, too little real coaching, so for example, voluntary return could have been an option. The system of incarceration has actually failed. It's not normal for a family with children to be locked up for four weeks. I even assume you agree with that. Incarceration of children takes place very shortly before the return flight. This is where it failed. You can, of course, blame this on all kinds of procedures, but a procedure whereby a child may stay locked up for four weeks is not a good procedure. That needs to be changed. Children's incarceration has to stop. Four weeks is too long, the psychic damage is far too great. It is also important that there is sufficient guidance in the closed centre itself for families with children who are locked up. I would certainly like to emphasise that. Try to ensure that this goes very well in the coming months should such a case occur. I have also asked you a few questions about the arrest of the family. Witnesses talked about a dozen cops in that family's living room early in the morning. That's not really possible. Such situations, far from ideal, must be avoided. Although it is an individual case, I think that a parliamentary question on such a method of arrest is justified. The arrests of families with children must be made in a different way. Finally, I agree with what Mrs Waterschoot said: children are not locked up, that is a red line that should not be crossed. Alternatives can be used, even though sometimes, in the worst case, this means that a family with children cannot be returned. But even that should not be a reason to introduce that measure. Moreover, some other European countries do not knowingly lock up children with their parents. Unfortunately, our country is taking a different position on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u10	Madam Secretary, I would also like to open the matter up a little bit. The oral questions were tabled in response to a particular family, but in the coalition agreement and also in practice, I believe that we should strive for voluntary return if it is possible to use them to the maximum and forced return if it is necessary. Especially if children are involved, but also for other people, forced return must be the last step, especially if forced return involves detention. It is very important that more efforts are made towards a voluntary return with good guidance. It is not enough for an order to leave the country. After all, if those concerned are not accompanied and followed up, they will continue to have hope and remain in our country. The family, which appeared to have been given a number of such orders, but did not give in to them, ended up in a closed centre. But, again, closed family units must be the very last option and they are only meant for a very limited period, according to us only a few days, just before departure. It was agreed within the government that preferably only for a few days and up to two weeks, and in some cases it could be extended by two weeks. However, it must not become a system to exhaust that four-week period. The fact that this has already happened indicates that something is wrong. Closed family units must be limited for families who can almost immediately board the plane for return, and who may still have to be caught 24 or 72 hours in that centre. However, it cannot be the intention to keep those people there for four weeks and then release them. It would have been better to release the family that was mentioned earlier and then work on a return or find an alternative. Hence my question as to whether there are any elements in the file that justify any regularisation. Of course, you shouldn't give me details of the file. However, if there are elements, such as waiting too long for a decision, lack of guidance or the medical condition of the children, I hope that they will be handled humanely. Regularisations are possible and can be assessed on a case-by-case basis. It's up to you to judge. Parliament cannot do that, and we will not do that. You have that responsibility and it is up to you to judge. I hope that you will show that responsibility when it is necessary and that you are doing the right thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u11	I thank the minister for her answers, although I regret that I did not hear from her mouth that it was unacceptable to lock up a child. The possibility of locking up children had indeed been foreseen since 2009, but no children had been locked up until the Michel government's legislature. There, therefore, lies the whole difference between the political will to lock children or not. We understand that this will was not at all the same under the Di Rupo government and Charles Michel's. Even if I am glad that no family is locked up today, one could, in the interests of good management, ask itself the question of what the staff who have been hired to supervise these families do, when there is no one and what is the allocation of all the resources committed in terms of infrastructure. I think it would have been much more useful to reinvest this money in the return homes and I agree with you that it is indeed a return, as their name indicates. At the hearings held here, we were clearly told that these return homes were underfunded. It would therefore have been better to reorient the means of inhumane management of the situation towards these houses of return, which are suitable for minors and children, and which have proved their worth. I hope that the reports of the hearings held here have not been caught up with the lists of Mr Franken's hearings. Indeed, these reports clearly show that the experiences with return homes in Bulgaria, Poland or Cyprus (i.e. countries hosting refugees with open arms) are conclusive and far less traumatic - as long as a refugee child is not already traumatized - than the confinement that is now supported by this government, because I have not heard you say that you are going to ban it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u12	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. The fact that almost all the political groups have asked questions means that the opposition cannot be greater. You have replied in very general terms and this general answer does not differ from what I wanted to hear, namely that you remain firm and stresses that those concerned must return. I also hear the displeasure in your reply about the fact that procedure is being initiated after procedure and that a new asylum application has now been submitted in the name of one of the children. You yourself say that there is still some work to be done on the procedures, or certainly on the possibility of cumulating the procedures endlessly. You are also quoting from the report by Marc Bossuyt, which states that the imprisonment of families should be possible in certain circumstances. I believe that we are at least in agreement that confinement should be as short as possible. That goes without saying. Mrs Lanjri reiterated the need to ensure even more that forced return is the last step. I do not know how we can strengthen that. In my view, forced return is already the last step and a great deal is being done to enable voluntary return. You did not reply specifically and I did not ask for specific details about the family itself. I do wonder, however, apart from the specific psychiatric situation, I know too little about this why no third doctor can be consulted if it turns out that two doctors have a different view of the situation. Whether the family is still in an open return home at all, we will undoubtedly find out when they return effectively. I'm afraid so.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u13	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Matz has converted 28327 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u14	Mr. Chairman, this is still a question that was addressed to the Prime Minister. I am surprised that he did not wish to give me an answer, since my question concerns an opinion of his Chancellery, but I think that Mrs De Block will be able to answer it. Minister, this issue deals with a subject that is related to the one that has just been dealt with widely, with a more specific angle. On 23 October, my colleague, Benoit Hellings, questioned the Prime Minister about an order made by the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child to the Belgian State. The purpose was to release a Serb family detained at the 127bis centre beyond the 28-day maximum limit set by the Royal Decree establishing the 127bis family unit. This was a request for an urgent and interim measure that was necessary "in exceptional circumstances to prevent irreparable harm from being caused to the victim or victims of the alleged violations". This order had not been followed by Belgium. In his reply, the Prime Minister referred to two contradictory interpretations concerning the binding nature of the Committee's decisions: on the one hand, the interpretation of the Office of Foreigners and the then Minister for Asylum and Migration, who considered the decision to be non-binding, and on the other hand, the interpretation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that the Committee's decisions were binding, since Belgium had ratified the 1989 Convention on the Rights of the Child and its three protocols. The Prime Minister then undertook to seek advice from the Legal Department of the Chancellery to clarify the situation. Minister, has the Legal Service of the Chancellery given its opinion? What is he? Can we dispose of it? Can we now, without any hesitation or doubt, consider that the Committee, in a similar case, is competent and its decisions binding? If so, do you undertake that Belgium implements the Committee's decisions in similar situations?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u15	Mr President, Mrs Waterschoot, the Legal Service of the Chancellery has indeed delivered an opinion in which it is stated that the Committee is indeed competent. From a legal point of view, the Committee's decisions are not binding but are considered in the literature and in practice as soft law. They can be considered as recommendations to the government. For each intervention of the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child, each case must always be reviewed and evaluated on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u16	Minister, thank you for this very concise answer. I hear it's soft law. That surprises me a little bit. The non-binding nature also surprises me. What is the point of signing multilateral instruments if it is not to comply with the resulting recommendations and orders? For Belgium, which claims to be in favour of multilateralism, this is difficult to understand. I think that can only help undermine our credibility on the international stage. I regret it all the more as it affects the most fragile of us here. What world does Belgium intend to offer to these children and children who have the misfortune of staying or passing through our country? Finally, could we have that opinion, minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u17	It's been published, but I can also pass it on to you. That is the answer we received from the Chancellery.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u18	I'm talking about the legal opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u19	I don't have them here. You have to ask them. I'm not the mailman of the Chancellery.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u20	That is why I addressed my question to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u21	There is openness of administration, but that must be asked of the consultant and not of me. I'm not the postman of the entire government.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u22	We will therefore ask "the factor" you designate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u23	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fernandez Fernandez (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mrs Fernandez Fernandez for her excellent report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u24	Madam Minister, my question dates from 1 February, so I think that the situation has already changed somewhat. I'm trying to be with you, but if I'm wrong, you can correct me. On 22 January, the federal government issued travel documents for two children of a Syrian fighter sentenced to ten years in prison in Turkey. You decided to issue a humanitarian visa following a judgment by a judge in interim proceedings on 19 December 2018, which required the Belgian State to do so. However, the Government brought an action on the basis of an incorrect statement of reasons for the judgment at first instance. Another interim ruling of 26 December 2018 obliges the Belgian State to do everything necessary and possible to bring six other children and their mothers from a Kurdish refugee camp to Belgium. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. As regards the interim ruling of 26 December 2018, you indicated that you were opposed to the active recovery of the mothers, by analogy with a decision of the federal government of 2017 that minor children under 10 years of age may be repatriated, but without their parents if they have actively joined a terrorist group, which I fully follow. Are you sticking to that point of view? What are you going to do to prevent mothers from returning with the help of the Belgian State? I refer to the right of a minor child to apply for family reunification with his or her mother. That could be a possible back door, an argument from the believers, which we are not. How will you deal with this, given the problem of the mother in this matter? What is the status of the interim ruling of 19 December 2018? What is your general position on the repatriation of other children of Syrian fighters still in refugee camps or in a war zone?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u25	Madam Minister, the recent statements by the President of the United States concerning the Islamic State fighters held in the camps in the Middle East raise the question of the possible repatriation of Belgian nationals and their children who, by definition, have not asked to be where they are. Part of the competence is in the hands of your colleague Mr Geens, what instructions have you given to your administration regarding minors, whether accompanied or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u26	Mrs Smeyers, it is true that I am following the government's decision. This is a decision taken following the opinion of the National Security Council by the government in full power and aims to facilitate the return of children under 10 years of age. Documents were issued as part of the implementation of that policy. Since the women you mention are Belgian, I cannot say anything about that. I don't have to give a visa. They are Belgians and they can always return to our country on their own. The question of family reunification does not arise here. They have access to the territory. The question was whether we will actively bring them back. We won't. With regard to the repatriation of other children of Syrian fighters still in refugee camps, I insist that the government's position was the right one. My competence is limited to delivering documents for children whose Belgian nationality has not yet been formally documented. We will issue a visa for this purpose. It is true that the necessary research is also carried out in a diplomatic post, such as a DNA swap to establish the relationship with Belgian nationals. Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, I wish to inform you that the Office of Foreigners is competent only for persons who do not possess Belgian nationality. As I have just indicated, I will continue the government's policy with respect to children under the age of 10. My competence in this area is limited to issuing documents when Belgian nationality has not yet been formally documented.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u27	Madam Secretary, this is a difficult dossier. You stick to the vision of 2013, that you do give these children a visa and not to their mothers because they are Belgian in this case. I follow you when you say that you can't do otherwise, but I still want to ask whether, given the circumstances, it is not possible to try to draw up some kind of regulation that also balances the overall security and possible risks of extremism versus individual freedom, in this case family reunification. This is a very difficult file.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u28	Two visas were issued for children of about four years of age, so I think it is difficult to predict whether they will ever show extremist tendencies. There's been a review of whether those kids could go to the grandmother's. The grandmother has agreed to be accompanied by the special youth service, an accompaniment in which the children are under increased control. Given their young age and the fact that their father died and their mother is in prison, it was irresponsible to leave them alone in a foreign country. I think a good balance has been made there. I'm certainly not saying this is going to be an automatism. We will take every case in each case into account all the elements.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u29	That is indeed the best attitude, not general rules, but thorough consideration. In this case, it would indeed have been worse to leave those children there alone. The risk of radicalisation would be even greater than if they were here. Indeed, for a very long time there must be regular and sustained control of those children. I hope it works. You can say that now, but they've been four years. What in 14 years?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u30	Minister, thank you for your answers. If these children remain there and are radicalized, we can hope that we will not see a minister or a secretary of state create an opaque and unsecured sector to bring them back.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u31	Madam Minister, during the discussion of the Policy Paper on Asylum and Migration, I asked the then Secretary of State about the average period for examining an asylum application. If I noted the answer correctly, it would be 361 days at that time. I would have liked to have had an insight into the evolution of that treatment period in the last two years. How long was the treatment period in January 2017, July 2017, January 2018, July 2018 and January 2019? How much do you estimate the cost of an additional month's treatment period? I think it is about EUR 1 500 per asylum seeker, if you charge EUR 50 per day for 50 days. I saw that in February, the number of persons dealing with requests at DVZ reached a low point of 3 490. This increased to nearly 5 000 in June, even before the increase in the number of asylum applications in July, to 8 500 in December. How do you explain that there was such an increase even before the increase in the number of asylum applications in July? Was there a structural problem? If so, which one? Can you give an overview of DVZ staff last year compared to now? Was DVZ finished too? In the meantime, was anything done about that? Any vacancies declared vacant? When, how much and at what time? Couldn't we have done that sooner, given that the backlog has been going on for a long time? Would the recruitment of more staff at DVZ ultimately not be cheaper than the additional costs of the extended treatment period? Could you also give an overview to the Commissioner-General?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u32	Mrs De Coninck, you have asked for a lot of figures, but we have provided an answer, since the legislature is at its end and you may not have a chance to get an answer to your question. It is true that the term of office at the Department of Foreign Affairs has risen sharply in the last two years. In early 2017, DVZ required an average of one to one and a half months for the transfer of the files to the Commissioner-General. At the beginning of 2018, that deadline had already risen to more than two months and in the course of last year it continued to rise to more than three months. At the beginning of 2019, the average duration of treatment peaked over four months or 132 days, three months longer than should normally be the case. The additional costs for reception in 2018 can be estimated at 27 million euros due to the average increase in treatment duration compared to 2017 by one month. In the case of unchanged policies, this could amount to more than EUR 100 million in 2019, assuming that asylum seekers would stay in reception for three months longer than necessary, as was the case at the beginning of 2019. Two factors can explain the increase in the duration of treatment in the Foreign Office. Since 2018, the number of asylum applications has increased. In addition, the number of staff in charge of conducting the interviews has decreased significantly, as at the beginning of 2018 it was still more than thirty full-time equivalents, which have now fallen below the twenty full-time equivalents. With the current workforce, it is not possible to deal with the new applications more quickly or to catch up. I have therefore asked for money to be able to recruit 37 additional staff. There was still a small staff reserve at the Foreign Affairs Office. Those people were summoned, but they must, of course, finish their legal notice on their previous work first. Those people are gonna be deployable pretty soon. The other recruitments must be carried out via Selor, so the staff will increase gradually. Since there is a bottleneck at the DVZ, the time limit for handling the Commissioner-General is still quite stable, but we know that we will have the same problem there. It takes almost one year on average for the Commissioner-General to deal with an asylum application. Many files are being dealt with within a shorter time frame, but the delay caused by the high asylum influx in 2015 still increases the average lead time. In July 2018, the Commissioner-General had to release 40 temporary staff. As a result, the workforce has fallen below the level before the beginning of the asylum crisis in the summer of 2015. The Commissioner-General therefore also needs additional resources. I have asked for money to recruit 85 additional staff, but at the Commissioner-General it will take longer. Firstly, the Commissioner-General has no reserve and must recruit it directly through Selor. Secondly, training there can last up to six months. Staff will thus be added in stages, but as the Commissioner-General will be able to process the higher numbers of files at a later date, it should be put in order. Once the new staff have been recruited and trained, according to the Commissioner-General's calculations, reception costs can be reduced by more than EUR 90 million per year, through faster decisions and faster outflow from the reception network. I also believe, from a human point of view, that a faster decision is better for asylum seekers too. That way they will know where they are. The calculations also show that there will certainly be less costs for the government. The selections for external recruitments of the Commissariat-General and DVZ were recently published. The first employees could normally start working from May, at least at the Foreign Affairs Office. With the Commissioner-General it may be a little later. In addition, there were also calls from the FPS Home Office itself. We are now also giving interested parties the opportunity to switch to DVZ or the Commissioner-General via internal changes. I haven't been notified of the results of that call. It would certainly be interesting, should we be able to offer even faster reinforcement via that channel of recruitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u33	Madam Secretary, there used to be such a thing as Socialist Prospective Women. I'm glad that still exists.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u34	My grandmother was a member of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u35	That's a smart woman. I'm content that you're forward-looking and that you're following evolution. My only observation is that the limitation to 50 asylum applications per day was not only due to the influx, but also to a defective organisation. That may never have been said or proven. Anyway, it really bothers me that people have to wait so long for a verdict. If one wants to be strict but just, one must also be for oneself and give the people as soon as possible a ruling as to whether or not they should stay here. If they can't stay, there's absolutely need to be a return. The M.O. is expensive, by the way. You have perfectly demonstrated how much it costs to keep someone here for a month longer. With these resources one can almost recruit a staff member half-time. That way everyone is actually better served. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u36	Madam Secretary, you know that I, too, practice evidence-based politics. That is why we are asking for many figures. This question, too, is a question of numbers. I would have liked to have heard the 2018 return figures, broken down by type of removal, namely country of origin, Dublin, bilateral, total repatriations, retreats, voluntary return via DVZ, IOM and total, intermediate transfers and overall. How do you evaluate these numbers? You will notice that I am asking for a lot of figures. However, I have already indicated a few times that we used to receive a very comprehensive report from DVZ, so that all the figures were permanently accessible and could be used. That annual report of DVZ has become a piece of shit. The service doesn't have time to deal with it. Consequently, we must bother you with all sorts of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u37	Mrs De Coninck, I will outline to you the main trends. We also have a table which can be forwarded to the secretariat. However, it is awesome to list complete tables here. We'll send them over. They will be attached to the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u38	Mr President, Minister, I hope that they will be forwarded to everyone and as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u39	The table will be placed on the extranet. However, you will also be sent it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u40	Mr President, this is done through the secretariat.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u41	Mr President, Mrs De Coninck, I always do that for everyone. In 2018, the total number of people removed was 9 392, a difference of 1 678 compared to 2017. This total amounted to 3 980 repatriations compared to 4 503 in 2017. There were 2 216 retreats compared to 2 475 in 2017. The figures for voluntary departure were also lower, in particular 3 127 compared to 4 033 in 2017. In these three domains there was therefore a downward trend in 2018 compared to 2017. However, there was a slight increase in the number of intermediate transfers, i.e. 69 in 2018 compared to 59 in 2017. As far as the factors are concerned, first of all, there is no denying the pressure of the transmigrants on the closed centres. The number of places reserved for this purpose has a detrimental effect on the efficient conduct of the removal of persons in illegal business. The places taken by the transmigrants, which are difficult to identify and difficult to remove, cannot be taken by people in the context of forced return. So that's really a problem. This has resulted in a huge drop in capacity. The result is a decrease in return rates. These places are no longer used to remove other people in illegal residence, who might have a greater chance of success. I believe that Dublin legislation could make more efficient decisions. I hope that this will be dealt with next week with the legislative proposal. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u42	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I will read the figures with great attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u43	Mrs Matz is not here to ask her question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u44	Mr President, Minister, you would invest 87 million in the reception of asylum seekers in order to regain control of the asylum problem. In your opinion, this extra investment is necessary to prevent families from ending up on the streets. You specified this. It would be 3 250 additional reception places, in addition to the 1 500 buffer places provided for. In addition, there will be a budget for additional staff to deal with asylum applications. You have just explained that in answer to another question. I assume that your action plan has now been approved by the Council of Ministers. You'll need extra cents for back-up campaigns and for your return policy. I certainly understand that, but how does the government suddenly find 87 million in current cases, an extra budget that I do not think is included in the budget? You say that you want to re-engage against the backdrop. So did your predecessor, but when you arrived, those campaigns disappeared. Have you deliberately chosen against these campaigns, and then again for them, or how should we understand? Can you explain in detail the reasons for the new supply campaigns? Will the situation be brought under control with the EUR 87 million? Can you guarantee that? In that connection, I have a second question. The problem of migrants is becoming increasingly acute. Transmigrants are generally economic tourists in our country who refuse to apply for asylum because they want to reach the United Kingdom at all costs. Your predecessor closely followed this issue, together with the then Minister for the Interior. They had even developed an additional action plan, the nine-point plan, to seek a solution to the problem. How do you deal with the nine points of that plan? What actions have you taken to resolve the problem of transmigration? Very concretely, where are we with the opening of the closed transit centre in Jambes? Or will this center be given a different destination?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u45	Mr President, Mrs Smeyers, as far as the additional budget for the action plan is concerned, a government in current affairs cannot pursue a new policy, but must take the necessary measures to comply with the legal and international obligations in force. For example, under international conventions, European regulations and national legislation, public authorities have a legally enforceable obligation to register and deal with applications for international protection. She must also guarantee care during that treatment. That's why I needed extra money. After all, there was an enormous oversaturation of the reception network. The illegal quotas set by my predecessor were rightly destroyed by the Council of State. That alone was sufficient ground for the government and the Minister of the Budget to give me the approval. At the same time, my action plan prevents unnecessary additional use of public funds, as shown by Mrs De Coninck's answer. The invoice would be much higher if we did not employ additional staff at the Foreign Affairs Office and the Commissioner-General. Moreover, by failing to provide adequate reception, the Belgian authorities would expose themselves to legal convictions for any asylum seeker who is refused reception. The collection bill would then rise simply by requiring the payment of periodic penalty payments and court fees. That is what I experienced when I had the honour and the pleasure to end up in this department in 2011. Then every morning at 8 o'clock ten to forty bailiffs stood at my door to deliver their letters. I have therefore ensured that these periodic penalty payments are a thing of the past as soon as possible. I didn't want to experience that again and hence this action pan. Furthermore, there is the fact that periodic penalty payments encourage improper use of the asylum procedure. Indeed, for those who are not at all at risk of international protection, they are an attractive factor. This increases the influx instead of getting him under control. That is what we have seen in the years before 2011. In 2012, the influx of asylum seekers fell rather quickly, even after a plan of action and providing sufficient reception to put an end to the non-allocations and associated periodic penalty payments. I was convinced that today's recipe could be used to solve some of the asylum problems. At that time, I also launched a great deal of prevention and detachment campaigns. They were an essential part of my action plan at the time, and also now. They aim to inform the target group in a correct and objective way about asylum and residence legislation in Belgium and about the dangers of smuggling and illegality. It is known that foreigners who want to come to Belgium are often the victims of misinformation by smugglers and people who seek personal money. There is a difference between prevention and distress campaigns and deterrent campaigns which, on the basis of false information, try to convince foreigners not to come to Belgium. It is not our government's job to fight disinformation with even more disinformation. This also risks jeopardising the credibility of Belgian foreign and asylum policy. It is therefore my main task in the field of prevention and distress campaigns to provide my administration with the necessary resources and support to enable the necessary campaigns to be launched in an efficient and qualitative manner. I don't have the task or the expertise to give my administration instructions to stop this or that campaign. By the way, it stopped the day before I had the first contacts on Monday. I've been appointed on Sunday. On Sunday, the campaign was taken off the Internet, not by me. After complaints from a lot of NGOs, DVZ decided to stop the campaign. I have therefore asked for the right content to be given to the prevention and distress campaigns and for them to be targeted through channels and in places where they have the most impact. We currently have 22 500 seats. There were no buffer seats left either. I shall pass on the answers to Mrs Matz's questions, because she is not here. The absentees are wrong. Mrs Smeyers, the nine-point plan is only in force for a few months. Since September, 160 places have been reserved in two closed centres, one third of the places in closed centres are reserved for transmigrants. This results in a high retention rate, both for planned actions on transmigration and for unforeseen interceptions of transmigrants. An administrative handling centre managed by the federal police was opened in the buildings of the center 127bis, also in autumn 2018. DVZ supports and facilitates the administrative handling carried out by the federal police. Transmigrenders whose file is handled in the Administrative Processing Centre shall, if the administrative file permits, be kept in the Closed Centre 127a. On a regular basis, a working consultation is organised between the bodies concerned with a view to improving cooperation. In addition, efforts will be made to optimise the use of sites in the closed centres, after which an evaluation will also be made of the operation of the administrative handling centre and its impact on disposal policies. There is no opening of a closed center planned in the Jambes barracks. Since the city of Namur has a short-term plan with that site, it is not eligible for projects requiring structural investment, such as the establishment of a closed reception centre. Jambes is populated as a shelter, but is only available for 18 months. Afterwards, the site gets a different destination. That's why we can't make investments, such as in extra security, via the Buildings Regie in a site that then gets a different destination. For an open center less infrastructure works must be done, so the site can be used for 18 months. That's why the center in Jambes hasn't become a closed center.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u46	Madam Secretary, thank you for your detailed answer. My question about the centre in Jambes has been answered in concrete terms. Too bad it's not going to be a closed downtown. You will probably look for another location for a closed center. You have clarified what you will do with the budget and why the government has considered that taking it out in current cases was justified. It is, of course, a good thing that you are putting extra staff in the asylum authorities, because I believe that slowness in that area also creates an incriminate effect, which means that you need to provide even more shelter than your current enlargement already entails. With regard to the problem of the transmigrants, I would like to suggest that the existing agreement on stricter surveillance, concluded between the former Minister of the Interior, the former Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration and the United Kingdom, should be maintained and implemented. I did not specifically ask for it, but I do hope and ask that you will certainly carry out and work out the arrangements they have made at the end of their term of office.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u47	Madam Secretary, on 30 November 2018, Child Rights Commissioner Bruno Vanobbergen wrote an opinion paper in Knack. He made it clear that, according to him, the government is abandoning its mission to protect children and young people on the run. He then pulled the alarm by pointing out that there are serious problems with the registration and reception of unaccompanied minor refugees. We have also learned that there is no room for Fedasil's NMBVs in observation and orientation centres. Since September, the unaccompanied minor refugees reported to the Voogdij service can no longer be received. Due to this lack of space, Fedasil should regularly make way for newly registered children by putting other children on the street. In the selection of those who are allowed to stay and those who are not, priority is given to the most vulnerable, such as girls, children under the age of 15 and children with disabilities. In a press release dated 3 December 2018, Vlaanderenwerk Vlaanderen stated that more than two hundred children have already been thrown out. On top of that, Fedasil's winter plan, in which NBMVs receive two nights of shelter in OOCs during the winter, today this question dates back to December 6th. However, this plan traditionally starts on 1 November. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. Is there a plan to create additional shelters for unaccompanied minors as soon as possible? If so, can you explain that plan? What exactly happens to the children and young people who are expelled from the OOCs?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u48	Ms De Coninck, in November 2018, the decision was taken to increase the capacity of the observation and orientation centre by fifty places. On 4 February 2019, Fedasil increased the capacity for these unaccompanied minor refugees by fifteen additional places on the site Samu Béjar. As a result, we have managed to fully implement the winter plan. At present, we have sufficient capacity to provide a reception area for all unaccompanied minors who come to the registration centre or who are notified to the Voogdij department outside office hours. Therefore, all unaccompanied minors who are registered and want a place of refuge will receive a place of refuge. Young people who wish to receive shelter under the winter plan but who do not wish to register will be given the opportunity to receive shelter for two nights, or three nights if a weekend is to be covered. After two nights and the necessary information, they are therefore referred to the registration and orientation centre for one of the OOCs.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u49	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u50	Mr Kir is not present at the moment to ask his question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u51	Madam Minister, the government agreement stipulated that a migration code would replace the current complex legislation on foreign affairs. That immigration code was consistently referred to by your predecessor as his magnum opus. The government would land with it by the end of this legislature. I would like to point out that such a migration code could bring greater transparency. You know that more transparency also means more democratic procedures and decision-making processes, hence my questions. What is the state of the migration code? The Secretary of State said that there were a lot of working groups working on it and that it was almost finished. I'd like to get an overview of each component. How "ready" was the migration code when you arrived? Have any opinions been requested from the Council of State?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u52	Mrs De Coninck, it will certainly have been worked on, but not enough progress has been made on the migration code. Some pieces were already prepared, others, at the level of administration, not yet. Nor do we know what information has remained in the cabinet. We certainly didn't worry about him. In my opinion, the dossier was not yet ready to go to the Council of State, let alone to the government or Parliament. There will certainly have been progress in certain areas, as we know from the administrations, but not for some parts. There were still missing or not yet well developed pieces. The administration informed me that certain inputs have been delivered, but other administrations informed me that they hadn't delivered much or nothing yet. There wasn't much talk about it either. Frankly, the magnum opus will not be for this legislature anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u53	Madam Secretary, thank you for that information. So it was a minus opus; am I saying that correctly? I have not been trained in such expressions in other languages.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u54	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 288, by Mrs Matz: Question No 28908, by Mr Van Hees: Question No 29, by Mr Van der Maelen Mr De Vriendt's 290117 will be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u55	Mr President, if I understand correctly, we shall be discussing this again in committee? Is that what was decided earlier? No?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u56	No! We received an electronic message from Mr. Bossuyt on Friday morning. He told us that he would be in South Africa before leaving for Switzerland. So I'll ask my question. My concern was to save us time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u57	Mr President, Madam Minister, following a number of scandals over the repatriation policy under your predecessor (in particular the return of the Sudanese victims of torture on their return to the country), the Prime Minister announced last year the establishment of a Belgian policy assessment commission on the return of persons in an illegal situation. A victory for the opposition and the associations, but a short-term victory since this commission was in fact composed almost exclusively of senior officials of the administrations concerned. It was therefore more an internal audit than the real independent evaluation that everyone was asking for. This commission recently published its interim report, the content of which did not surprise the world. Why has the community not been involved in the evaluation? Will the government be content with this report? Do you draw any conclusions from this report for the future work of the Foreign Office, or even for the evolution of the legislative framework for return?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u58	First of all, I would like to say that I received Mr Bossuyt and that he wished to point out that his report was only provisional. This is an intermediate report, which has yet to be completed. This report reflects the current policy of expulsion and concerns observations made by several NGOs, bodies and individuals. Various actors were asked to submit their findings and views in writing. Some bodies and persons have also been heard by the committee to provide further explanations of the positions expressed in writing. Through this report, dialogue is encouraged on this difficult part of the return, which is essential for a coherent asylum policy. I'm going to go through a few things with you. First of all, it notes the improvement of asylum policy both in human terms and in efficiency. In particular, with regard to the length of the procedures which are now shorter, so that the applicant is better aware of the situation. It is positive to learn that the recommendations made by the commission under the direction of Étienne Vermeersch have been implemented to a large extent. The report begins with a tribute to Professor Vermeersch, who chaired both committees. The report calls for more international collaboration within the framework of, inter alia, the Global Compact on Migration. He pointed out that the migration crisis could only be overcome by greater cooperation between countries, whether they were countries of origin, transit or destination. The report adds that multiple applications for asylum must be considered, since such applications are often used to extend the period of stay in the free territory, which may hinder an effective return procedure. The final report is scheduled for early 2020. It will then be considered which actions can be implemented to follow up on the recommendations. This is an interim report. Even if we cannot take action immediately, we can still think about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u59	Minister, thank you for your answers. This is an interim report and you inherit these skills for a short period of time, so I don't know your scope of action. However, I believe that such a report cannot be drawn up on such a subject without involving the community. I do not question the work done, but since it is an interim report, let us not miss part of the objective of hearing all the actors to improve things for our host country and for the refugee candidates.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u60	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Ben Hamou's 29042 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u61	Mr President, Madam Minister, on Thursday, 7 December 2018, the European Ministers responsible for migration issues were probably meeting for the last time before the elections of 26 May 2019 concerning the progress of a common policy in these matters. If I am not mistaken, you were not yet in charge of this matter. It would appear that the discussions in these dossiers, in particular as regards solidarity between the Member States, but also as regards the revision of European legislation, are deadlocked. Minister, can you provide us with an update at the end of this meeting and shed some light on the positions that the resigning government has taken in these debates? If you have a written report, you may send it to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u62	Mr President, Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, I attended the Informal Council on 7 February 2019. A new formal Council took place on 7 March 2019 in Brussels but, being ill, unfortunately I was unable to attend. In this context, the progress of the legislative negotiations on the asylum package was still among the first items on the agenda. Moreover, on the basis of the fact that the dossiers are blocked in a political stalemate within the Council, all the scenarios and options have been explored: from the possibilities of making maximum structural progress in the asylum package before the European elections, to the final approval of the most consensual texts, to intermediate solutions in the context of rescue at sea through a coalition of the willing pending structural reforms. Over the past few years, Belgium has made a strong commitment at all levels to enable structural reform of the European asylum system, and Belgium advocates the adoption of the comprehensive package, namely the seven legislative proposals. However, if this is not possible before the elections, Belgium, like the Netherlands, calls for the adoption of a mini-package for Eurodac resettlement and the European Union Agency for Asylum. Belgium has also indicated its readiness to support temporary solutions focusing on the issue of landings. In our view, like what the European Commission had proposed, the reform of the asylum system must be based on a much greater responsibility at the external borders and on a much stronger system of solidarity in which all Member States participate, so that not all charges are based solely on a few unfortunate countries located at the external borders of the Union or which become the final destination of secondary movements. This is the case with our country, the Netherlands, Germany and Luxembourg. In our view, this reform must be carried out if we are to be able to meet current and future challenges. It is therefore essential for the sustainability of Schengen and, by extension, of the whole European Union, as we know it. As I said, it was in line with the interventions of my predecessor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u63	Madam Minister, I agree with you that we must look at the migration problem in a macro-European way with, in the background, solidarity that must be established between the Member States. However, even if I hear that you are in favour of the adoption of the complete package and if there is a problem, in favour of intermediate votes, I think the priority is to ensure that all countries respect the quotas allocated to them. And it would be good if Belgium began by respecting its own!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u64	Madam Minister, I have very specific questions about Fedasil's plans to open a large asylum centre with, I thought, 120 places in Deurne. Is the story true? What's the rent on that location? Is it market-based? What is the duration of the contract? Are there any obligations in this? Is it true that the Red Cross and Caritas are not interested in the operation because of the high rental price and the obligation to issue in original condition? This would allegedly be an additional contract obligation, which was included in the lease. Why would Fedasil want to exploit that? What is the opinion of the Treasury Inspectorate on this? I would like to have an overview of all the asylum exploitation leases with the cost and duration of the contract, which have been concluded since your new mandate. Which operator is it per asylum operation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u65	Ms Smeyers, the Council of Ministers decided on 15 February 2019 to open additional reception places in the coming months. Unfortunately, all the buffer points that I had opened up during my previous mandate were now completely phased out. Now a tooth needs to be added and Fedasil needs to look for new shelters. Unfortunately, the choice is now much more limited than in recent years. So everything that is offered on the market and what is available on the premises is visited. Now the choice is limited to what is on the market today. Anything offered by public institutions or by the market will be eligible for a first visit by Fedasil or its partners and will be examined in terms of legal, operational and financial feasibility. The financial feasibility is, of course, double-checked, as the opening of each new site is submitted to the Finance Inspector for prior approval. It's no different now. The contractual terms such as the rental price, the duration of the contract and the cancellation vary per site. It goes without saying that they would be more advantageous and less variable if Fedasil had been given the opportunity in recent years to pursue a dynamic buffer policy. In order to avoid making that mistake and allowing the buffer places to go, which would have to open more expensive places in case of emergency, it has been decided to roll out a new buffer policy, continuously searching for the cheapest buffer places at the best possible conditions. As I replied to Mr Dewinter last week, Deurne is one of the slopes examined. The building is interesting because of its adapted infrastructure for people with reduced mobility, which is needed in the reception network. Such places are not numerous. For the exploitation of new sites, Fedasil works together with reception partners. Since my arrival, shelters in Lommel, Zaventem, Mouskroen and Jambes have been opened. In Mechelen a center for 180 people will be opened soon. The shelter in Jambes is run by the Croix Rouge and that in Mechelen by the Red Cross. The remaining three are operated by Fedasil. It is only natural that the reception partners show a little more caution when opening a new centre, given the poor experience with the phasing-out decisions of the past few years. The buffer places that we now have too few were abandoned too quickly. I was able to hear that criticism during a consultation with the Croix Rouge, the Red Cross and the trade unions of the open and closed institutions. Restoring trade unions' confidence in the working conditions of the workforce will require a great deal of work. We do not want to make hasty decisions, but there must be a more gradual build-up. If we can get back to buffering stations, we must be careful not to bring them down completely again. The dossier is not yet complete and has obviously not yet been submitted to the IF. You asked about the rent, but I haven't seen it yet. There's been a first inspection and that's all. Apparently, that's already stirred up a lot of dust in the area. I'll let the people of Fedasil do their job. When the file gets to my desk, that's what's going to be discussed. First of all, I'll call the government involved, which is how I've always worked. I don't know if my predecessor did, but I'm assuming he did. However, I am not going to call them at a time when I do not yet know which centres will be selected. It is always the case, of course, that the Treasury Inspectorate should give its consent.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u66	Madam Minister, I will not go into the undertone of criticism in your reply. My question was only about the shelter in Deurne. You can't tell me what the rent is yet. I have heard the rumor that the asking price is quite high, but perhaps it can still be negotiated. We'll see if the Treasury Inspectorate gives her a visa. You're saying the file isn't complete. I take note of that. We shall look into it, because it is said that the demand price is very high.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u67	I can only say that you know more than I do, but that may not be abnormal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u68	Based on the location, it could be.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u69	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vanden Burre's 29104 is referred to the Committee on Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u70	Mr. Chairman, Madam Minister, I will not recall all the retroacts. I come directly to the questions. The report you have submitted, although incomplete, shows the truly astoundingness of the lightness with which your predecessor used his discretion in the field of humanitarian visas. However, there are also some questions about the monitoring of this use. Thus, the fact that it seems impossible to make sure that all the requests have been traced is surprising. Minister, you have already answered the question of how no centralization of applications has been made. Moreover, it appeared that in a group presented by a different intermediary of Mr. Melikan Kucam, at least one applicant had been at the service of the Bashar al-Assad regime. Can you tell us if there are any indications of other similar cases? What measures are being taken to ensure this? Finally, have any measures or at least any contacts been taken by the administration with respect to intermediaries who have submitted these lists of names?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u71	Madam Minister, on the basis of the table distributed last week in connection with the screening of the humanitarian visa system, I have a number of additional questions. Firstly, my colleague Karin Jiroflée had asked about the number of visas that have expired and we know that no application for asylum was subsequently made. Do you have that information yet? How many persons still have a valid visa and have not yet applied for asylum? Please share your answer by network and by applicant we know. Second, the categories of different 2016, 2017 and 2018 are striking. Who's that about? In particular, what happened in 2017? How is it that such a high percentage did register that year, but did not apply for international protection? Thirdly, how do you explain the different number of visas via Kucam in your table versus the Francken table? Are there any links with other intermediaries? Freddy Roosemont stated in this committee that there were also lists of Kucam-Delvaux. Fourthly, do you have any idea why visas were not picked up sometimes? Fifth, where are your table the group of Syrian clergymen? Sixthly, how do you explain the big difference in visas through the Scherpen Hill group between your table and that of Francken? Seventh, who or what is HC? Are we talking about 'humanitarian corridor' and, therefore, Sant'Egidio?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u72	Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, I will not repeat everything I said last week. The administration did not have control over the management of these requests. The Agency was able to centralize only the lists sent by my predecessor, that is, by his office, for consultation with the security agencies and, where appropriate, for the issuance of a visa instruction to the post concerned. There are no indications to date of other cases where there are indications of exclusion, in accordance with article 1 of the Geneva Convention. All the lists sent to my administration have been forwarded for verification to the security agencies. Thus, humanitarian visas are no longer issued on the basis of lists submitted by organizations or individuals. There is therefore no longer a risk that persons who should not be admitted for this procedure will be admitted. With the exception of Mr. Melikan Kucam, whose name was revealed in the course of the prosecutor's investigation, my administration does not know the names of these intermediaries. They were in direct contact with my predecessor, or with her firm's collaborator. That said, the reason why my administration should contact these intermediaries escapes me. As far as Mr Kucam is concerned, it seems obvious that a contact is excluded. Mrs De Coninck, as you can read in the note of the administrations, the tables were compiled on the basis of tables and e-mails that could be found. I have already said that this was not an easy task. There were also lists on which some people occurred several times. Other people were added to the following list. Some were taken off later than again. So it's not certain that we've recovered everything. Therefore, it is also clearly stated in the note that the figures provided should be seen as an indication rather than as absolute figures. The number may also be higher. I propose that my predecessor himself clarify the difference in figures. Of the 121 persons who have received a visa but who have not yet registered in Belgium, 28 are currently aware of the expiry of the visa, 22 are on the list of Mr Kucam, 4 on the list of Mr Dibo and 2 on the list of various persons. There are still 93 people for whom the visa is still valid and who may still be able to apply for asylum. A list titled HC was also found. We believe that this represents 'humanitarian corridor', but we do not know who it is associated with. The list diverse is a combination of separate lists and individual mails that do not necessarily have anything to do with each other. They were recovered through the OCAD. These lists were divided each year for the sake of viability. Why there appear to be different profiles in 2017 is not known. In no list were clergy registered as a separate category. This is where I owe you the answer. There is no reference to Syrian clergy in any list. We can only observe that 176 persons are on the lists to whom, according to the FPS Foreign Affairs database, no visa was issued. We don't know why these people didn't pick up their visas. It wasn't even awarded, so it just didn't exist. There may be force majeure on the ground. It is true that in certain lists such a situation is more common than in others. Like you, I still have a lot of questions, but the reconstruction was still valuable. This has become a little clearer, and certainly the big difference with the list of people saved through the operation in Aleppo, in which all services worked together. It was an unusual and unstructured method, and as far as I am concerned, that method can no longer be repeated.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u73	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u74	Madam Minister, I was wondering if you knew whether, in addition to Syrians, persons of another nationality were granted a visa and subsequently did not apply for asylum. You don't know that? You cannot find out, possibly via Foreign Affairs, to which nationalities visas were issued?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u75	Because it's about discretionary jurisdiction, those visas were sent directly from the cabinet to the embassies. For the rest, no investigation has been conducted by the State Department. We can't know that either.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u76	And those embassies didn't keep any lists of them either? That's weird, isn't it? Nowadays they get this by e-mail and they can still make a photocopy of it if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u77	There are even people at DVZ who had erased their lists because of the move and still have been able to recover them after some search work. We asked OCAD for lists because we did not think we had them ourselves. Apparently, pieces were still found in the cloud. And since the cabinet was shut down, we couldn't search for lists there either.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u78	So we don't even know who we let into Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u79	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Van Peteghem's 29126 and 29136 were converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u80	Mr President, perhaps this is my last question ever in the Federal Parliament. Right? At least I suspect that the Minister will not have many rounds of questions before the dissolution of Parliament. Madam Secretary, Malika El Aroud, also known as the black widow of the jihad, may be expelled to Morocco, her country of origin. She was convicted of terrorist activities in Belgium and her Belgian nationality was taken away from her. At the end of January, the Council of Foreign Ministers confirmed that it was excluded from refugee status and was not granted subsidiary protection. It can therefore be effectively deported to Morocco. According to the judges, it has not demonstrated that it is at risk of torture or inhuman or degrading treatment in Morocco, which does not affect Article 3, the so-called non-refoulement principle. Madam Secretary, what steps have you taken very specifically for this repatriation? You had to release a serious criminal before, so I think you're vigilant in the meantime, you know the catch, and you're afraid that something like this won't happen again. Did you have any contact with Morocco in connection with this expulsion?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u81	The Department of Foreign Affairs has taken the necessary initiatives to obtain travel documents from the competent authority, with a view to effectively removing the territory of Mrs El Aroud, known as the black widow. For me, of course, this is a priority issue. As regards contacts with Morocco, the competent authorities shall deal with the matter. The file will continue to be closely monitored. You know that public statements are rarely conducive to diplomatic démarches. So you will understand that at this stage, in order not to hypothesize the chances of success of the march and its removal, we need to show the necessary discretion, but the necessary contacts have been made.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u82	Madam Secretary, if it helps you to keep my mouth shut in all the languages, I will remain silent in Dutch, Moroccan and all the other languages. I hope the mission succeeds.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1062x.u83	That is why all the questions have been asked and answered.
