ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1055x.u1	Minister, you may not be surprised that I am asking questions about the games of chance. They follow from the debate following the change in gambling legislation. My first question concerns identity checks. Games of chance permitted in a class Ill establishment may only be operated by a majority of years old. Anyone who wants to play must insert their electronic identity card into the machine. For example, the legislator wants to ensure that minors are not exposed to gambling. However, the protocols of the Gaming Commission give a rather lax interpretation of that requirement. For example, it is stipulated that the electronic identity card must be removed after insertion and that after that you have five minutes to put credit in the machine. Moreover, so to speak, to prevent excessive wear of the card, new credit is possible for five minutes after the end of the game, if the player indicates that he wishes to continue playing. I do not see the added value of that. Why do you have to take his card out of the machine? Why do we have five minutes left to bring in credit after that? These measures seem to me only to ensure that age restrictions can be easily avoided. Send an adult acquaintance to a machine that activates the machine and immediately brings his elD back and anyone can play on that machine afterwards, as long as he or she so wishes. After all, one can always indicate that one wants to continue playing, hence my questions. Firstly, are you aware of those regulations or instructions from the Gaming Commission? Secondly, why is it decided that the elD should be removed immediately after the start-up? What's the reason for that? Why can't he just sit there? Doesn't that make it easier to bypass the age limit? Would you mind getting that changed? If yes, by when and how? Thirdly, why is it determined that, after the removal of the elD, one still has five minutes to apply credit? What's the reason for that? Doesn't that make it easier to bypass the age limit? Would you mind getting that changed? If yes, by when and how? My second question concerns the cashless systems at the vending machines in a class Ill facility. The Royal Decree of 11 July 2003 provides that the use of coins with a maximum value of 2 euros for gambling machines in gaming equipment class Ill is to be used. For so-called bingo and one-ball machines, this is provided for in Article 1, § 1, 6° and for the playing devices with reduced bets in Article 1, § 2, 3°. The Gaming Commission indicates the requirement, which was clearly drawn up to limit the bet on such machines and thus protect the player, a very peculiar interpretation. In fact, in the protocol for Class III establishments, the committee allows a so-called cashless system to be used. In addition, it specifies that a banknote reader can function as a cashless system. So you can play with notes on those vending machines. The limit set by the legislator is thus completely bypassed. According to the Gaming Commission, the cashless system on bingo and one-ball machines allows up to 50 euros to be added at once. For machines with reduced bets, this will be a maximum of 20 euros. This is particularly shocking, because the above-mentioned royal decrees also stipulate that the maximum bid for bingo is €6.25 and only 50 cents for vending machines with reduced stakes. For bingo and one-ball, it is also stipulated that the machines must be equipped with a mechanism that prevents more money than the maximum bet in the vending machine. Therefore, no more than EUR 6.25 may be added into these machines, but the Gaming Commission allows a credit to be raised to EUR 56.25. The cashless system is therefore clearly used to circumvent the rules imposed by the legislator. First of all, were you aware of the use of that cashless solution? If so, why didn't you take action? If not, what is your opinion on this? Secondly, the cashless systems are a clear circumvention of the restriction on the use of coins greater than two euros. Is that, in your opinion, a good thing? If so, why is that a good thing? Don't they make playing easier and they don't run out of protection for the player? If no, do you want to act against the cashless systems? In what way and against when do you intend to act against it? Thirdly, the cashless systems are also in breach of the mechanism that should prevent more than the maximum input into the machines. What's your opinion on that? Do you want to deal with the problem? If so, by when does it intend to take action? Fourthly, the example shows that the Gaming Commission is quite free to deal with its powers. Has the Gaming Commission, in your opinion, acted within its powers by issuing such directives? If not, how do you intend to prevent the Gaming Commission from taking similar measures in the future? How will you prevent such a system from being fitted with 3.3. machines in the future, as the Gaming Commission will also monitor this? Finally, my third question concerns the indexation of the average maximum hourly loss, as laid down by the Gaming Commission. The 1999 Act provides in Article 8 the average maximum hourly loss for gaming machines in establishments class II, III and IV. That is 25, 12.50 and another 12.50 euros respectively. The maximum loss for Class I devices may also be determined by the King. The same Article also provides that those amounts shall be indexed in a manner to be determined by the King. Whether the King has also determined how these amounts are indexed is not clear to me. I can't find a KB dealing with that. However, the Gaming Commission carried out an indexation of the amounts by 36%. The protocol for Class III now refers to an hour's loss of 17 euros. Last summer, the 25 euros in class II was also raised to 34 euros and the same indexation applies to class I and class IV. The Gaming Commission itself writes: "There has not been the same indexation as for all residents of this country. In all transparency and after discussion of the Gaming Commission, the proposal of the sector was accepted to use the same calculation as for the cafés in the slot rooms and casinos. The Gaming Commission had also found that the application of the calculation of the average hourly loss in cafés has never led to complaints, either legally or from the population." Mr Minister, are you aware of this regulation by the Gaming Commission? Has the King decided how to index the average maximum hourly loss? If so, in which document did this happen and is the conduct of the Gaming Commission consistent with that? If not, is the working methods of the Gaming Commission legal? In case the King hasn't laid down any rules, isn't the Gaming Commission acting without a legal basis? Were you aware of that action? Do you wish to take action against the conduct of the Gaming Commission? If so, how and by when? If not, why not? The Gaming Commission increased the amounts by 36%. This is significantly more than the increase in the consumer price index over the same period, especially since 2010. Do you agree to that increase? If not, would you like to change it? Up to what percentage?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1055x.u2	Mr Van Hecke, the Gaming Commission consists of a chairman, 12 permanent and 12 alternate members. Pursuant to Article 10 (6) of the Game Act, the Committee shall exercise its advisory, decision-making and control functions in full independence. Decisions shall be taken by a majority of the members. Although I, like five other ministers, as Minister of Justice have two representatives among those members, I am not involved in the committee's decisions. I therefore have no opportunity to act against the committee's decisions. The individual and general decisions of the Committee shall be administrative acts against which an appeal for suspension and destruction may be brought before the Council of State. The protocol, which is the subject of the three questions, is the subject of an action for annulment, as is the case with the Royal Decree in question. As far as identity checks on gambling in Class III establishments are concerned, I should first of all like to say that we have made a huge leap forward with regard to identity checks and the ban on participation in all games of chance for minors. The integration of age control into class III equipment has been launched years ago and is now confirmed in the new draft law, which is before the committee. The audit makes it clear that minors are not allowed to play games of chance. The Royal Decree of 25 October 2018 provides that the automatic device must be equipped with an electronic identity card reader, the eID. The Royal Decree states that the device can only be activated if the electronic identity card of the adult player is inserted. The operation is thus linked to the insertion of the eID, not to the operation of that device. This has proved to be a problem in the past. Too many players forgot their identity cards and minors found devices in which an identity card had already been inserted. However, the card reader who checks age does not prejudice the responsibility of the café boss to ensure that minors do not play games of chance. The possibility to apply credit for another 5 minutes after removing the eID is a consequence of the fact that the identity card should not be inserted throughout the game. After taking the card back, the player must be able to play and thus place bets, or to pay the money that is still in the wallet on the device. There is a certain risk that this may be abused, but there are no complaints about it today. An adjustment may be considered where appropriate. I will draw the Committee's attention to this. The adjustment time for the programmes can be estimated at a few months. The adaptation of all machines will soon take a year. With regard to the cashless systems on Class III devices, the Royal Decree of 25 October 2018 distinguishes between the maximum entry into the appliance, the operation of the device and the maximum deployment per game. The entry into the aircraft means placing money on the credit meter, money that can be played. In principle, the Royal Decree states that this is 20 euros on a device with a reduced stake and 6.25 euros on a device with a bingo or one-ball game. It is distinguishable from charging money in an electronic portfolio or in a cashless system. A manual or digital ticket or a player card is that. First, we need to clarify what is meant by a cashless system. It is a player card or ticket that can be charged via the cash register of the café on the device. It's not about a payment system like Payconiq, Google Pay or Bancontact. The cashless system has been allowed since 2012. The Protocol of 1 January 2019, which introduced several amendments following the Royal Decree of 25 October 2018, has taken over that possibility. The portfolio of cashless systems can be up to 50 euros per decision of the Game Commission of 2 October 2013 in the cafés. However, that needs to be nuanced. In that case, the money is loaded into the electronic wallet, on the player card or on the ticket. That doesn't work yet. The player must then place a bet by pressing a button that takes money out of the portfolio. The maximum bet for reduced bets is half a euro, the maximum bet for bingo and one ball is 6.25 euros. The introduction of credits into the electronic portfolio should be preceded by age verification, as provided for in the applicable Royal Decree. It is up to the Council of State to decide on the validity of the Technical Protocol of the Gaming Commission. As regards the alleged indexation of the maximum average hourly loss of gambling in Class III establishments, Article 8 of the Game Act states that the amounts of gambling are indexed in a manner to be determined by the King. The King has indeed never acted in this matter. The adjustment of the average hourly loss, as made by the Gaming Commission, does not concern indexation. This is an adjustment of the method of calculating the average hourly loss in class III, first applied by the Gaming Commission in 2014. The average loss of hours shall be determined by testing with variable bets, uniformly divided between the minimum and maximum bets permitted on the machine. The hourly losses are determined for each of the possible bets based on the level of redistribution and the average time per game for each bet considered. The level of redistribution shall be determined on the basis of tests per possible bet, with profit and bet measured at the specified bet. For Class III this is the case for 20 000 games. As regards the recent adjustments in 2018, for Class I and II, by analogy with the 2014 scheme, on 12 December 2018, it was decided to apply the same method of calculation of the average deployment. Therefore, the 1,36 is not an index coefficient or an annual indexation, but the same factor used to calculate the average hourly losses, which is based on the factor used in 2014 in class III. The adjustment of the method of calculating the average hourly loss is therefore lower than an annual indexation, which allows for the Gaming Act and which, moreover, would exceed 36%. It is also up to the Council of State to decide on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1055x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You do not say whether it is in accordance with the law or a royal decree. You pass the hot potato on to the Council of State, because there are appeals to the Council of State, saying that he will assess it all; or you say that the Gaming Commission which draws up certain protocols, that it is an independent body and that you cannot do much about it. I am a little disappointed, because you yourself have noticed that the Gaming Commission is composed of representatives of six Cabinets. Does that mean that the representatives of your cabinet decide very autonomously, individually and on the basis of a personal assessment on what may or may not be? As a minister, do you have nothing to say about that? Do you not give guidelines to your cabinet staff if they have to make certain decisions? I don't think so. You're a pretty good control freak. I think you are also sticking to the law and think that the law should be properly observed. You have also raised several concerns about the consequences of gambling. I find your statement that you cannot do much about it, because it is an autonomous body, therefore very remarkable. Once again, the committee is made up of representatives of various cabinets. I think you're getting off too easy. Minister, I continue to question the way in which the protocols are made by the Gaming Commission and the decisions it makes. The latter seem to me to be contrary to clear legislation. The legislation is designed to protect the consumer, but it goes very loose. Finally, we now have a whole explanation of the cashless player card, which is to be bought in a café, but I think the rules are very clear. If a maximum of EUR 2 can be thrown into an aircraft, while a card with EUR 50 can be obtained, I think everyone knows that this is not in conformity. I therefore believe that action must be taken against this, Minister. We must not wait for decisions by the Council of State. I believe that you should act as a minister and make it clear that that is not possible. You must do so through the representatives of your cabinet and those of your colleagues on the Gaming Commission. I believe that they would do a good service to the public and to the public interest.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1055x.u4	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hecke's 29046 is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1055x.u5	Mr President, Minister, the last edition of Alost's carnival was unfortunately illustrated by a chariot combining Jewish religious people and money. As you know, this situation has greatly shocked the population as a whole, which has seen caricatures worthy of the darkest hours of our history rather than humour and derision. To this emotion and general disapproval are also added the criticisms made by the European Commission as well as by Unesco, which has included this heritage in its registers of events classified for the benefit of humanity. Minister, how do you look at these events? To what extent have the justice services dealt with or could they deal with this matter under the anti-racism and anti-Semitism legislation? Would a preliminary investigation have already been initiated into this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1055x.u6	Mr President, Mr Calomne, it is important that the celebrations held in a carnival context take place with mutual respect. The balance of human rights is a particularly delicate exercise. Thus, freedom of expression, which is an essential foundation of a democratic society, may be subject to limitations when it endangers other fundamental rights such as the right to non-discrimination. Any act aimed at inciting hatred, discrimination or violence must be strongly condemned. I share the approach advocated by Unia which favours dialogue and calls for mediation in order to facilitate mutual understanding and awareness of the impact of such representations. The fight against discrimination and racism is a priority of our Government. We have a robust legislative framework to combat racist, discriminatory and negationist statements. We also have an independent inter-federal institution fighting discrimination, Unia, which has a clear mandate to intervene both preventively and reactively against all possible forms of hate crime. In addition, on 1 March, prosecutors general and reference magistrates held their annual general meeting at the Dossin barracks to discuss the approach to be taken to combat these phenomena more effectively, including anti-Semitism. With regard to the monitoring carried out by the judicial authorities, the Public Prosecutor's Office allows me to inform you that it has examined the recent festivities of the carnival group De Vismooil'n under the relevant legislation and in particular the anti-racism law of 30 July 1981. Like Unia, the Public Prosecutor's Office has not identified any criminal offences in the head of this carnival group. However, I deeply regret that the feelings of a part of our population, especially the Jewish community, have been struck by stereotypes and caricatureal representations used in Alost.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1055x.u7	Minister, thank you for your various points of answer. As you say, the emotion was great - not only in the Jewish community, but also among many of our fellow citizens. I would also like to hear the reactions of the European Commission and UNESCO. It is important that we be firm in the face of possible abuses such as racism and anti-Semitism. Anti-Semitism today is not an opinion but a crime. He must be condemned firmly. The symbols that we have unfortunately seen can help to trivialize this type of speech and act.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1055x.u8	Mr President, Minister, I was alerted, after the last communal and provincial elections, that people under administration had not been summoned and had not been placed on the voters list. We know that the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities considers a person with a disability to be a full citizen. On the other hand, we have national legislation on persons in "disabled" situations, which in itself is a somewhat contradictory concept with the United Nations Convention. "Onbekwamen." It's also a somewhat penalizing vocabulary. There are two categories of persons under administration: property administrations and personal administrations. I must tell you that the National High Council of Persons with Disabilities (CSNPH) has been concerned about this issue. I come to you to see what the source of the problem is. Minister, is the problem at the level of justice of the peace? When a person is placed under the administration of the person, the authority determines the "rights" withdrawn from the person because the company considers that these persons are not in a position to exercise them. It is possible that, in some cases, the right to vote may be abused, depending on the sector. The disability sector and the CSNPH are fully based on the United Nations Convention that our country has of course approved and ratified. Minister, are you aware of this problem? Are you aware of the number of files? It may not be a large number of people, but injustice is still an injustice too much. It seems that the phenomenon is quite widespread. From the point of view of the disabled sector, which I agree with, it is a bit of an abuse of power towards these citizens. In the case of guardianship, whether property or person, the authority ultimately protects the disabled person from himself or herself and protects society. Moreover, voting is not a danger to society. It is a right that should be acquired by all, even people who would be severely mentally handicapped. They may, like any other citizen, be accompanied in the insulator or give a power of attorney to a person of their choice. It's a right for everyone, finally. Here is a second hypothesis, which may be cumulative. Is there not a problem at the municipal level? However, this legislation has evolved. She's not known. Perhaps public officials and civil registrars do not register such persons, out of ignorance or negligence, when they are informed not by a justice of the peace that they are under the administration of property or the person, but perhaps without distinguishing between the two. Perhaps I should ask your colleague, the Minister of the Interior, about the information, awareness-raising or training of staff, directors-general or even registrars on this issue. I would like your opinion on this point, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1055x.u9	Mr Delizée, the College of Courts and Courts was not able to provide me with statistics on the number of cases that led the justice of the peace to limit these rights. Minister Peeters, in his capacity as the competent minister for persons with disabilities, informed me in his letter of January 25, 2019 of the problem you cite in your question. The right to vote of a person with a disability may be restricted only by judicial means. This is recalled in article 7 of the Electoral Code of 12 April 1894 as well as the various regional regulations on the organization of communal elections. It is not for the municipalities to take restrictive measures in this area without the approval of a judicial authority. A justice of the peace who orders a measure of judicial protection in respect of a person must explicitly enumerate in his or her order the acts relating to that person or to his or her property that the person is unable to perform alone. As long as the person is not subject to a measure of judicial protection in relation to a given act, the person remains entitled to carry out it independently. The law provides for sufficient measures to ensure that the judicial protection system is publicized in the communes. On the one hand, in accordance with article 1251 of the Judicial Code, an extract of the order for judicial protection is sent to the mayor of the home of the protected person, in order to be recorded in the population register. On the other hand, since 1 March 2019, in order to ascertain the details of these measures, the municipality could, in accordance with Article 1249/2 § 2 of the Judicial Code, request an extract of the order including the device, provided that it justifies a particular interest in relation to the protection of the person concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1055x.u10	Minister, I sincerely thank you for your answer, which I will read out, which is very specific. On the substance, we agree. If Minister Peeters made you aware of this issue, it was because he himself was questioned by the sector. These are the rights of people who are different. As you said, it is not up to the communes, an official or a justice of the peace to deprive them of their right to vote. As we come to the end of the legislature, we cannot go any further. However, on the issue of information and awareness, I think some further progress could be made. It will therefore have to be discussed again in the next legislature. In any case, we will see whether such cases occur in the elections on 26 May. It would then be an opportunity to assess them, so that the competent authorities could disseminate the necessary information.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1055x.u11	Minister, on 18 April 2018, you gave me an answer in the Justice Commission to my question about the operation of foreign intelligence services, by which we mean Spanish intelligence services on our territory. You rightly referred to the ongoing judicial investigation, but your reply was also very short. However, on 16 April, you received a draft response for the security of the State, which contained a number of more pertinent data. Let me sum them up: the State Security had not developed any activities in this case; the foreign services had not asked for cooperation and there was no agreement with them; the foreign intelligence service had requested and received the address of Mr Puigdemont from the State Security on 31 October 2017; the State Security had learned through Belgian partners that a beacon had been placed on the former president's car, but could not say who had done so; the State Security had informed the foreign services that they could only carry out operations on our territory subject to its approval. Of all the elements listed in the draft that the State Security Services had provided to you, I find nothing in your reply. I regret that. I am also concerned and I wonder why that information was omitted. However, I also note that the State Security did not pass on certain information to you, such as the fact that information was also requested about Mr Puigdemont's whereabouts on 1 November 2017 and around 19 March 2018. The security of the state has kept that from you. The fact that the State Security had frozen its cooperation with the Spanish intelligence services after pointing out to them that there had to be an agreement to carry out operations in Belgium was also not followed up, and that cannot be accepted. I am also concerned about the ongoing judicial investigation. The detectives are doing very thorough work here. In response to their question, the prosecutor requested three times a communication inquiry through a mini-instruction, which was always refused. In the long run, it would be thought that someone should be kicked out of the wind. It has already been discovered which serial number the beacons had and which brand they were wearing. This makes it perfectly possible to find out who bought them and whose phones were connected to them. Moreover, it is not the first time that the Spanish intelligence services have organised surveillance on our territory. I am thinking of the case of the Basque couple, a few years ago. By dragging the investigation for an extra long time, that file ended with an extraterrestrial. So it was basically a cover-up. The data we now have must not repeat such a thing. That is why I have the following questions for you, Minister. Why was so much hidden in the response of 18 April 2018? How will you proceed with the matter and certainly with the security of the State, which I believe you have wrongly not informed? How will you ensure that this case, on which so much useful information already exists, will certainly not be covered up?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1055x.u12	Mr President, Mr Degroote, on the information you regret that I have not communicated it in response to your first parliamentary question, I would like to make it clear that the State Security Note, to which you refer, contains two parts. The first part contains the State Security Response proposal, which proposes to refer to the secrecy of investigations in criminal matters. The second part of the note concerns contextual information reserved for the Minister. This information is classified. The Security of the State has expressly stated that it may not be included in the reply. As far as I am concerned, therefore, I have respected all the mandatory rules in force. I leave it to Parliament to assess that the above also applies to your question, which is public and contains information from a State Security Note, which was classified as confidential and included in a Committee I report of a non-public nature. In my turn, and to use your words, I am somewhat sorry that the report in question has now found its way to the media. The law ordering the intelligence services to follow up the activities of foreign services on Belgian territory is very recent. I remember them very well. After all, I have submitted them to Parliament. The case allowed the Committee I to deliver an opinion on the application of that law. I welcome the fact that there is an opinion which, of course, the security of the State will have to take into account in the future. As far as criminal investigations are concerned, I also feel obliged to apologize to you for complying with the rules in force on the secret of the investigation. I will therefore confine myself to the following elements, which allow the prosecution to inform you. An investigation was opened on 8 February 2018 by the Walloon-Brabant parish as a result of a complaint by Mr Puigdemont. Several mini-instructions on telephone inspections were requested by the King's Attorney and were granted by the investigating judge. The investigative actions carried out in this respect have not been allowed to identify the persons who would have placed or placed the beacons mentioned in the complaint. A judicial inquiry was opened as a result of the bourgeois election on 1 October 2018. For the time being, the bourgeois party has not provided any evidence that would have allowed the judicial investigation to proceed. The investigating judge transferred his file to the Prosecutor of the King of Walloon Brabant on 3 January 2019. The Attorney General has made an application for an offense on 21 January 2019, as no suspect could be identified. The bourgeois party submitted an application on 19 February 2019 requesting additional investigative actions. The judge's decision is expected.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1055x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. In any event, the Committee's report does not show that the draft had stated that part of it should not have been said. It certainly doesn't say that. I thought there were elements in there that weren't secret. How will you proceed with the security of the state? I think you will have to point out to her that she should not withhold information from you. There would be no new elements in the judicial investigation, but I have been told that the brand and serial number of the beacon will enable us to determine which mobile phone was connected to it. This even turns out to be a mobile phone located in a Brussels hotel between 28 and 31 January. At that hotel, someone from the Spanish Audiencia Nacional stayed. If you already have such data, you will certainly have to look further. If that led to an extradiction, I would be very surprised. I believe that the matter will then have to be considered seriously.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1055x.u14	Minister, I would like to ask you about the operation of the justice registry in the first canton of Wavre. The President of the Justices of the Peace and Justices of the Walloon Brabant Police Court, Mr. Nicaise, has just decided that the Registry of the Justice of the Peace in the first canton of Wavre would now work in closed offices. In Mr. Nicaise's view, this decision, to say the least, is dictated by a staggering lack of staff within the Registry, and aims to minimize its impact by preserving hearings and substantive work. The registry of the first canton will therefore no longer welcome the public and, for information, will refer it to the legal aid offices. It will no longer be accessible by telephone, except on Thursday mornings. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. Of course, I think you are aware of this situation. Do you find it normal that the framework has been incomplete since 2015 and that no replacement, through the implementation of a mobility of registrars within the borough, is possible? And because of this: in all the justices of peace of Walloon Brabant, the clerks who actually do do make up only 65% of the framework. Mr Minister, I believe there is a need to react quickly. What do you intend to do to remedy this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1055x.u15	Mr Corthouts, I am well aware of the situation in the Court of Justice of Wavre. On 15 February, a consultation meeting was held with the President and Chief Registrars of the Walloon Brabant Peace Justices, during which the issues of buildings and staff were discussed. The most acute shortage is found among clerks, following absences for illness of appointed clerks, transfer and absences among appointed administrative staff. In order to remedy this, three vacancies for the post of Registrar are under way, for which 51 candidates have applied. The selections will take place on March 18 and April 3. At the same time, in addition to the support staff, two temporary contractors were assigned to the justices of the peace. In addition, it was concluded with the President that the move from Tubize to Nivelles, in accordance with Phase 3, should be arranged in anticipation of the transfer of the justice system from Tubize to Nivelles, in order to be able to bring the transplants together. The law also offers the possibility of temporarily moving the second canton of Wavre to the courthouse of Wavre. However, this is a local choice. The President organized the operation of the two Wavre registries to ensure continuity of service. It is of course possible to transmit the documents electronically to the first of them. Those who cannot be sent in this way may be temporarily filed with the second registry. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1055x.u16	Minister, thank you for your answers, which deserve a thorough examination. I will not fail to return to you if the situation does not settle quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1055x.u17	Question No 29088 by Mrs Sonja Becq is postponed.
