ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Calvo has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u2	Madam Minister, a planned economic mission from a dozen Belgian companies to Congo has been cancelled at the last minute. However, during his state visit to Belgium in mid-September, the President of Congo warmed up dozens of companies to invest in Congo. It was therefore decided to organise an economic mission at the beginning of November, but it was cancelled. Why was this economic mission suddenly cancelled? Was the government involved in the organization of the trip? There is a new economic mission to Congo in mid-March next year. Is this correct? If so, who will send the Belgian Government?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u3	Mr President, Mrs Samyn, I am afraid I will have to answer your question briefly. It is true that, following economic contacts during President Tshisekedi's visit in September 2019, there was a intention of the Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture Belgium, Luxembourg, Africa, Caribbean and Pacific to organise an economic mission to the DRC at the beginning of November 2019. On 22 October 2019, after consulting the local partners, the Chamber of Commerce decided to postpone the shipment. The Chamber of Commerce has given reasons for the delay that the chosen timing was probably too close. Nevertheless, the Court maintains contacts with the regional partners in Belgium to provide them with the necessary support and expertise in organising a successful mission to the DRC in 2020. Mrs Samyn, the initiative in this area lies entirely with the Chamber of Commerce. The federal government is not involved in the file. Nor am I aware of any detail regarding the timing or composition of the economic mission. Unfortunately, therefore, I cannot say much about it either, simply because we are not in a position to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u4	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u5	Madam Secretary, at the end of October 2018, Apple and Samsung were sentenced in Italy to fines of 5 million euros each for deliberately delaying older smartphones through software updates. In addition, Apple was also sentenced to a fine of EUR 5 million for withholding necessary consumer information on lithium batteries. The purpose of the updates is, of course, to slow down the operation of the appliances in such a way that consumers are encouraged to buy a new appliance, while their current appliance is technically still perfectly in order. It would also be a common practice of Apple to charge customers absurdly high repair costs in preventing a small and easily repairable defect. The costs are often so high that the customer should actually just buy a new device, which ultimately is the purpose of the whole story. This not only penalises consumers financially, but also creates a pile of unnecessary end-of-life phones, which, of course, is a waste of raw materials and creates a lot of electronic waste or e-waste that can be avoided. It is to be assumed that these practices are not limited only to Italy, hence my questions. Do you have any idea whether the practices of Apple, Samsung or other manufacturers are also common in Belgium? If not, are you prepared to have these practices applied in Belgium? What steps will be taken to correct, sanction and compensate consumers for the damage caused by this, if it appears that manufacturers have also applied these practices in Belgium? How can such practices be prevented in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u6	Mr Gilissen, it is true that the FPS Economy has set up a contact point where consumers can report a suspicion of premature ageing of goods. The aim is to identify, in a structured way, potential problems in the field of artificial ageing. So far we have not received any repeated reports about the brands Apple and Samsung. The analysis of last year's statement in Italy can, of course, also be useful for our approach. That is why I asked the services of the FPS Economy to further analyse this case. If, on the basis of an investigation by the competent supervisory authorities, it is decided that consumer protection rules, for example in the field of fair commercial practices, are not complied with, the undertaking concerned will be subject to criminal sanctions. In the case of compensation for damage, the rule is that the injured party will have to claim it. A collective recovery claim is also possible, but the government cannot bring such a claim. In my opinion, the practices we are talking about here are by definition cross-border and really require a European approach. In this respect, I would like to mention that a new European CPC regulation has been adopted. This Regulation will enter into force at the beginning of next year and should promote cooperation between national authorities monitoring consumer protection rules in the event of cross-border infringements. I can also refer to the new Guarantee Directive published in May this year. For digital content and services there will also be rules on warranty. This new Directive shall apply from July 2022. I would like to refer to the proposal for a directive on representative progress which is being discussed today. The Finnish Presidency intends to take an initiative in this area and will present it to the COMPET Council at the end of this month. We hope to be able to reach a general approach at that meeting. I myself will be present at that meeting and hope to be able to support those initiatives. There have been and will be various initiatives at European level in the future. That seems to be the right level to tackle this problem. I will play my part in this at the end of November in the Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u7	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. As you say, this is cross-border. A verdict has been passed in Italy, but that is equally true for other countries, including Belgium, hence my questions. I await what the FPS Economy will do, whether it will examine further on the substance of whether this is also the case in Belgium and what will happen at European level in the area of regulation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u8	Mr. Bayet is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u9	Madam Secretary, there has been a pop-up squat on a bank machine in our country 22 times, as we could hear in the news. The situation is getting rather dramatic. Seven puff squats were committed at Argenta's ATMs. Following the latest puff squat, Argenta decided to close its 364 ATMs for security reasons, so that its customers, office owners, employees and residents would feel safer. As a result, as many as 1.75 million Argenta customers can no longer collect cash from an ATM from their bank for an indefinite period. A reduction in the number of vending machines reduces the risk of puff squatting, at least according to Argenta's reasoning. This rather far-reaching measure has a significant impact on Argenta's customers. If they want to collect cash, they have to go to the vending machines of other banks or they have to go to an Argenta office within the opening hours. It does cause some inconvenience for consumers. Madam Secretary, do you have a view of the extent of the impact on Argenta's clients? How do the customers react? Will customers have to pay an additional fee if they collect money from another bank's vending machine? What are your views on the responsibility of the banking sector with regard to the availability of ATMs and counters? This demand is wider than Argenta, because we have also heard from several other banks that a number of ATMs are disappearing in the smaller villages and cities. Where appropriate, the question arises as to whether a local administration should provide for an ATM, whether or not it should be in a bank office. Hence the demand for the responsibility of the banking sector. Are you prepared to consult with Febelfin to make some arrangements?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u10	Mr President, Madam Minister, I heard from the press that two banking agencies were going to close in Tournai and the only agency in Peruwelz, forcing the Peruvians to go to Quevaucamps. Minister, I'm worried. While it is said that digital is the future, the digital divide is real. The Digital Agency, in its citizen barometer, is also clear: "34% of Walloons, i.e. one million Walloons, are in a situation of weakness or delicacy with regard to digital technology, either because they do not have access to the Internet or because they do not have the minimum skills to use it properly." Not all Belgians are ready to live without an agency. A third of the Walloons will be wronged! Besides, I'm afraid for local businesses. Many of them are not equipped with a bank terminal. I therefore fear that the closure of these agencies will have more direct and indirect consequences than is suggested in terms of employment, service to the population and local economy. Minister, what is the government's position on the closure of these agencies? What is the government's position on imposing a minimum number of agencies per municipality? Shouldn't a clearing mechanism be put in place, allowing banks to make contributions based on how they contribute to financial inclusion? Access to banking agencies and bank notes is part of a service of general economic interest. It seems to me that it would be useful to collectively commit the banks to assume more of their social responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u11	Colleagues, on the practical side, the closure of Argenta ATMs has an impact on customers. If they wish to collect cash, they must turn to offices during opening hours, or they can turn to vending machines from other banks that are still available, or to supermarkets that also provide cash. I understand that Argenta card holders do not pay any fee at the pick-up at another bank's vending machine and that until further notice they will remain so. So the temporary closing of the Argenta vending machines park doesn't change anything about this either. The Argenta measure is far-reaching, but I understand that it is a temporary and, by definition, non-structural measure. I would also like to refer you to the Minister for the Interior, De Crem, for more explanation, especially in the context of the security aspect, Mrs Dierick. Last week, he had talks with, among others, Febelfin and some banks to discuss the phenomenon of puff squatting and the possible security measures. Bank rates are not subject to the price regulation largely transferred to the Regions by the Sixth State Reform. It is therefore initially a commercial decision of the bank itself to adjust its rates and charge costs for certain services. In principle, the provision of ATMs by a credit institution is also part of that commercial freedom. For the moment, my administration is not aware of any real complaints or major problems with regard to the lack or absence of banking agencies in Belgium. There is therefore no immediate reason to impose a minimum presence of agencies or distributors per municipality. There is a general trend towards an increase in electronic payments. This cannot be ruled out either; other European countries are already further away from our country in this respect. Electronic payments have important social benefits. It ensures greater security for traders and consumers. It is an effective measure against money laundering and tax and social fraud. From a practical point of view, it is an easy way to pay for most consumers, where consumers can check their transactions via the bank app on their smartphone. I am in favour of a low-cash society, not a cashless society. Cash still has a social function, which cannot always be taken over by digital means of payment. Certain groups, often vulnerable consumers, depend on cash payments. These groups should not be excluded from payments and therefore from active participation in our society. Banks have an important social role and a duty to provide a minimum service in terms of geographical distribution and availability of ATMs. For the time being, ATMs are sufficiently spread. This is also apparent from the figures of the European Central Bank. The number of ATMs in Belgium is around the European average. Our country has 670 ATMs per million inhabitants. This is slightly less than France, with 807, and Germany, with 707, but it is almost double the Netherlands, with 345. After Spain and France, Belgium also has the highest number of bank offices per million inhabitants in the European Union, i.e. 496. Germany scores by 338 significantly lower. The Netherlands has 90 offices per million inhabitants according to the figures of the European Central Bank, five times less than Belgium. In order to ensure that sufficient distributors are available, bpost is already making distributors available in places where there are no distributors under its management contract as a public undertaking. Thus, it helps to guarantee the availability of cash when it is the only means of payment. It is important that this social service be maintained. Most supermarkets and gas stations also offer the possibility to withdraw cash upon purchase. I also took note this morning of the initiative of four banks and bpost to manage their ATMs together. Cooperation is based on reducing costs and making necessary investments to purchase new and safe devices. Then, to date, no contact has been established with regional employment actors. There is also no question of collective redundancies. With regard to your question about my intention to ask BNP Paribas executives to report on their decision, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the OECD's corporate governance guidelines for state-owned companies, it is not up to a minister to intervene in daily management choices. Similarly, the State is supposed to respect the independence of the Board of Directors. Finally, I also note that some regions, cities or municipalities still levy their own taxes on vending machines or banking agencies. Thus, several cities impose taxes of 400 euros or more, as is the case in Tournai. Such tax measures seem counterproductive to me. I therefore call on the decentralised authorities to take the necessary steps to promote not only local employment but also local services in banking agencies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u12	Madam Minister, thank you for the very comprehensive answer. I am pleased that you acknowledge the impact of the decision on customers and at the same time underline that it is a temporary decision to guarantee security. We hope that the problem can be resolved quickly. I will certainly also ask your colleague from the Interior about security and consultation with Febelfin. You are right to point out the trend towards more electronic payments, which we can only endorse. Recently, we heard here in a hearing that Belgium is lagging behind and that we should encourage electronic payments. We have therefore drawn up a legislative proposal on this subject, which we hope will soon be able to be discussed here. I am satisfied with the number of ATMs in our country compared to other countries. That's important information, which we need to spread more. Every time a bank machine disappears somewhere, there is a lot of fuss about that. However, if we compare the total figure for Belgium with that for other countries, we may be able to draw different conclusions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u13	Minister, I am not as happy with the answer as my colleague. You have said a lot and I thank you for this complete answer. You say that there is no real complaint, and that it is necessary to promote electronic payment. I'll hear it. Moreover, what is said about the digital divide is not an invention either. We can always go to more digital, but we cannot hide reality. We cannot tell elderly people that they have to go to Quevaucamps when they live in Peruwelz, nor can we tell local traders to send the person to the ticket distributor in a supermarket, i.e. in a competing brand. It's hard for me to hear that. You say this is about commercial freedom, and the government doesn't have to interfere. But at the level of Parliament, can we not imagine a different policy to collectively commit the banks to assume more of their social responsibility? No collective dismissal does not mean an absence of dismissal. I am not reassured and will remain attentive. I shall consider, if necessary, the possibility of reflecting on the matter with other parliamentarians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u14	Mr President, I have a practical question. I tabled my next question together with a question on the Brexit and the measures in this area, but I see that it has not appeared on the agenda. I don't know if the Minister has prepared an answer, so I suggest I suggest next time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u15	We'll check that on the computer. The computer may have said "no." You can always do that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u16	I also put a question on the Brexit and I was informed by the services of the Chamber that this question had been referred to another minister and that she would be dealt with in another committee. Could you check to see if that's the reason?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u17	We'll see if we can find out the reason, and if we can find out, we'll let you know.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u18	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u19	Your question about the preparation of the Brexit in the port of Zeebrugge has apparently been referred to the Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u20	That's why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u21	Normally, you should get a message about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u22	That would be useful indeed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u23	Mr President, Minister, 40 to 50 billion tonnes of sand are extracted worldwide, including on our coasts. Every year Belgium wins 3 to 4 million m3 of sea sand from the North Sea, which yields huge profits for our country. In 2018, our country was the third largest sand exporter in the world. However, several studies show that this use of sand is out of control in our country and that if everything remains as it is today, we would be in serious trouble within a number of years. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. First of all, are you planning to increase the price of our sand, as this is becoming more and more a precious commodity? Secondly, how is it that Belgium is one of the largest sand exporters, but at the same time one of the largest importers? That seems contradictory at first sight, but perhaps there is a very logical explanation for that. Thirdly, does the government have plans to prevent Belgium from running out of sand in a number of years? What actions are being taken to try to recycle as much sand as possible? There are a lot of new technologies already in place for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u24	Mr President, may I first make a statement on the order of business? There is indeed a second Brexit question, but it is about European social funds. It would have been forwarded to the Social Affairs Committee, not to the Treasury.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u25	Colleagues, perhaps pay attention, because the Minister does not have a standing committee. It also depends on matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u26	It does depend on matter. We thought we'd taken everything, but if the questions were assigned to other committees... Mrs Depraetere, there is currently an action aimed at developing policy options that take into account the limited proven exploitable reserves, the use and availability of alternative raw materials to replace primary building sand and the cost of primary and alternative raw materials for building sand in Belgium and the surrounding countries. The action is part of the achievement of the economic objectives set out in Annex III of the Marine Spatial Plan 2020-2026 and the Sustainable Development Goals of Responsible Consumption and Production and Life in Water. As far as exports of sea sand are concerned, the figures have to be adjusted, as part of the sand discharged into the ports along the Westerschelde eventually returns to Belgium via inland shipping. Also, the coarsest building sand is not available on the Belgian continental shelf which means that it has to be imported like gravel. In order to gain a better view of the final destination of the Belgian sea sand, new register vouchers were put into service on board the mining vessels in January 2019. These coupons indicate not only the place of unloading of the sea sand but also its final destination. In calculating the available reserves and their evolution, only the sand extraction areas were taken into account in the marine spatial plan 2020-2026. Future adjustments to the demarcation of sand mining areas, new zones or reopening of former zones may lead to an increase in the available sand supply. You also had a question about pricing policy, but this is not within my competence. The price policy has been regionalized, but I believe that in these matters the price is determined by the market. It's a commercial fact. Since 2005, recycling has been promoted by offering the sand in the sand extraction area on the Sierra Ventana at a cheaper rate. Sierra Ventana may be the most exotic name on the Belgian map, but actually this is just a mountain of sand off the coast of Zeebrugge. The sand at this location comes from dredging works for the floor and maintenance of the canals at sea. Circular economy and the reuse of sea sand will also be one of the topics during the study day "Zeezand in 360° perspective" organised by the FPS Economy on 20 November 2020. Perhaps to be clear again: the FPS Economy is primarily responsible for the granting of concession licences and also for the management of operating concessions. That is actually within the competence, which is why I could not answer everything and only do it for my own powers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u27	Thank you, Madam Secretary. This could be an important source of income for our country. I am pleased to hear that you are effectively working on a number of plans in the future, in the maritime plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u28	Mr. President, Minister, many provisions are in place to ensure the safety of children with toys. The 2009 European Directive, which provides in particular for the prohibition of carcinogenic, mutagenic and toxic substances for reproduction (CMR), but also for fifty-five perfumes, is transposed into Belgian law by the Royal Decrees of 19 January 2011 on the safety of toys and on the approval of conformity assessment bodies for toys. These orders impose internal control, a safety assessment, an obligation to inform the consumer and certain chemical requirements, namely the absence of CMR substances. The CE marking shall be affixed when these safety requirements are met. The SPF Economy also organizes awareness-raising campaigns. The last one dates back to February 2018 and was entitled "10 tips before buying a toy". Despite this, in 2018, fifteen toys were removed from the market and twenty-two more were recalled to the consumer. It is therefore clear that despite these provisions, which I have just mentioned, there are still problems and that security could be strengthened. As we approach the St. Nicholas, it seems to me important to take stock of the matter. Minister, can you give me a list of the most withdrawn products in 2018? Do you already have information for 2019? Are awareness-raising campaigns similar to that of February 2018 planned this year? It is known that the CE marking is affixed by the manufacturer himself. Should controls be strengthened and a label put in place by an independent body? Is this an option? Are other measures currently under consideration?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u29	Mrs Reuter, I will provide you with a table with all the toys that were removed from the market and/or recalled in 2018 and 2019. These are mainly teddy and dolls. In all cases, it was the manufacturer himself who made the decision to take action after the inspection, without any further decision having to be taken. In case of serious risk, the product is recalled so that the consumer can return it and recover his money. At the same time, the product is also withdrawn from the market so that it can no longer be sold to the consumer. If the risk is lower, ensure that the product is no longer sold and is only withdrawn from the market. A report is available on the European campaign on the safety of electric toys, in which the SPF Economy participated. Seventeen products were checked. Of these, only one, a laser toy, did not meet technical requirements. Fourteen of the seventeen controlled products had administrative non-compliances. This report is available on the website. In addition, I will give you the study of the results of the European campaign – Belgian results for 2018 and 2019. In addition, you will find reports from previous control campaigns. This year, the SPF also participated in the other two European control campaigns, notably on soft and upholstered toys and slimming. The page on tips before buying toys has been accessed 1,008,152 times. A communication took place via Facebook and a video was broadcast via this channel at the end of 2017. She's been seen 23,000 times. This information is very useful and I invite the consumer to take the time to consult it. After all, it's about the safety of children. New such campaigns are not planned in the coming months. However, as the Saint-Nicolas approach and the end-of-year celebrations, communications on the safety of toys are planned via social networks. Toy safety is regulated at European level. Therefore, it is not possible for Member States to change the conformity assessment procedures themselves. The European Commission is currently evaluating the Toy Safety Directive. In principle, its report will be available by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u30	Madam Minister, I thank you for this very precise information, which I will not fail to relay. As you say, Belgium does not have the possibility of acting alone on this directive. Consumer information works, as the figures show.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u31	Mr. Chair, Minister, we generally prefer not to call them, but sometimes we have no choice. Of course, I'm talking about telephone customer service. We hear people complain regularly about these services, and those of the big multinationals are not left behind. In many cases, these complaints relate to the price that the consumer must pay to use them. We are sometimes put on hold for long minutes and hear a message saying that all lines are busy. Or we're fired from duty and we have to repeat our story every time. Or the conversation is simply cut off after being put on hold for about ten minutes. In many cases, these calls are expensive for consumers, who often call for billing problems, technical concerns or questions about their subscription. My questions are as follows. What do you think is the maximum waiting time for a consumer before it is helped by a telephone customer service? Should not any fees charged to the consumer be communicated before the consumer contacts the customer service – for example, in a message on the company's website? Finally, from the consumer's point of view, would it not be better for large companies operating in Belgium to be obliged, in the same way as utilities, to make a telephone service available free of charge to their customers? Thank you, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u32	Mr. Chairman, Mr. D'Amico, in 2011, in consultation with the then Minister of Economy, a customer charter was signed by some 30 companies and public enterprises that committed themselves not to keep the customer waiting on the phone for more than two and a half minutes. This charter still exists to date. Moreover, in the agreement "The consumer in the free electricity and gas market" revised in 2018, energy suppliers commit themselves to short waiting times in case of consumer question and complaint. In my view, the objective should be to remove the waiting time on the telephone for the consumer who contacts a company. You ask whether it would not be better to inform consumers beforehand of the cost of a call to customer service and whether large companies should not necessarily provide for free contact with customer service. In this regard, I must point out that the Code of Economic Law already provides rules for this purpose. As regards calls made in connection with the performance of a contract with a company, it is already provided that a paid number cannot be used, so that the consumer bears only the normal cost of his call. This applies, for example, to calls relating to the application of the guarantee, invoicing, delivery, etc. Where an undertaking offers telephone services for other matters, the consumer must be informed in advance of the applicable tariff, e.g. the price of the paid number.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u33	Minister, you were talking about a charter. So it's not a law. If the operator does not comply with this charter, what about it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u34	Membership of the Charter is voluntary. But there is also the Code of Economic Law, which also serves as a legislative basis in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u35	Madam Minister, since 1 January 2010, the so-called Partyka Act on balance-of-payments insurance for people with chronic illness or disability has been in force. In the past, the conclusion of a debt balance insurance policy for a mortgage loan was not always without problems for people with chronic illness. Insurance companies apparently considered the persons concerned to be an increased risk, which often meant that they had to pay high additional premiums or that the loan was simply refused. The Partyka Act was intended to facilitate the conclusion of an insurance contract. It would also increase transparency by requiring insurers to clearly explain why they charge a supplement or refuse insurance. There was also an opportunity to appeal against the insurer's decision to the Succession Agency for the pricing of balance-of-debt insurance. In March 2019 an adaptation to this law was approved. That adjustment provides for the possibility, by means of a Royal Decree, of defining certain chronic diseases for which insurance undertakings are no longer allowed to charge supplementary premiums, or only up to a certain ceiling, and it determines which people may no longer be excluded from insurance. As it remains extremely difficult for people with chronic illness to take out debt balance insurance, I would like to inform you of the state of play. I have three specific questions for you. First, the above-mentioned law of March 2019 will enter into force on 1 January 2020. Are the insurance companies ready for this legislation? Is the Follow-up Office ready for this legislation? Secondly, has the preliminary draft Royal Decree been amended since March, adding additional chronic diseases to the reference schedule, so that certain chronically ill people are no longer excluded from debt balance insurance or no longer have to pay an increased premium? If this is the case, what chronic diseases are we talking about? And will the addition be clearly communicated, for example to the interest groups and patient associations? Are the decisions ready to enter into force on 1 January 2020? Thirdly and finally, is it true that every insurance company uses a different questionnaire to decide whether an insurance is approved or rejected? Is it true that the administrative burden and the multitude of studies prevent many patients from applying to different companies? We therefore think it is a good idea to create a standardised questionnaire for all companies. Questionnaires must now be approved in advance by the Follow-up Office, which can be the tractor for drawing up a standardised questionnaire. Madam Secretary, how do you feel about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u36	Madam Minister, in April 2019 the right to be forgotten was approved for people who have recovered from cancer disease, after the expiry of a period of 10 years in which their condition can still be respected in determining a debt balance insurance. That is a very positive measure. However, patients suffering from chronic diseases such as diabetes and muco are confronted with problems in applying for balance-of-payments insurance, although such diseases are very often well controlled. For those patients, difficulties in taking out debt balance insurance are often a personal disaster. Fortunately, the law also provided for the possibility for the government to define in a reference schedule a number of chronic diseases for which the insurance undertaking may neither charge additional premiums nor provide for exclusion. When discussing the legislative proposal, the members of the Business Commission were able to take note of the preliminary draft Royal Decree establishing the reference timetable for the right to be forgotten. Madam Minister, has the Royal Decree, of which there was a preliminary draft already been published in the Belgian Official Journal in March? If that has not yet happened, what is the reason for this? From when does that reference grid come into effect? In other words, from what date can insurance companies no longer charge supplementary contributions or exclude people because of a chronic illness?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my answer is all positive. The Law of 4 April 2019 on the right to be forgotten was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 18 April 2019 and will enter into force on 1 February 2020. The secretariat of the Follow-up Office, as well as Assuralia, informed their members. The law and implementing decisions have been worked out in consultation with the sector and the various patient organisations, so that they are already very well informed. In order to make as much information as possible available to the general public, a specific page was created on the abcverzekering website of Assuralia with additional information on the balance of debt insurance and the right to be forgotten. The insurer's questionnaire will also explicitly refer to that page. The Royal Decree of 26 May 2019 establishing a reference schedule for the right to be forgotten was published in the Belgian Official Journal on 14 June 2019. It shall enter into force on 1 April 2020. You can find these implementing decisions and the attachments online. In addition to several cancers, which means a shorter period of time, the annexes also include several chronic diseases, including HIV, hepatitis and mucovisciosis. These chronic diseases are subject to a limited additional premium. At the request of the Business Committee, the implementing decisions were also sent to the committee for the second reading of the bill on the right to be forgotten. These decisions have no longer been subject to any substantive changes. With regard to the extension of these reference schedules, Article 5 (2) of the Act provides that the Federal Health Knowledge Centre (KCE) will evaluate the reference schedule biannually and, in the light of medical progress and available scientific data and conditions, make a proposal. Mr Verhelst, I believe, referred to diabetes. The premium has not yet been determined. The aim of the next evaluation is to allow the KCE to make the exercise within two years in order to determine the additional premium for this. The KCE shall then communicate a proposal for the adjustment of the reference timetable to the Succession Bureau for the charging. The latter shall then forward the proposal, accompanied by his opinion, to the Minister responsible for insurance, as well as to the Minister for Social Affairs. The King can then adjust the reference grid. The issue of medical questionnaires is the subject of an opinion C2018/1 of the Commission for Insurance. This advice came after a question for evaluation by my predecessor, Kris Peeters, and was not unanimous. The medical questionnaires must strike a balance between the candidate's right to privacy and the need for the insurer to have the necessary information to properly assess the risk. In any case, it is not permitted for the insurer to ask questions which are not relevant to the assessment of the risk or which are far too general. The evaluation report also shows that the introduction of a uniform medical questionnaire may also have a negative impact on the candidate insurers. Finally, I would also like to point out that the Follow-up Office has already been instructed to approve the medical questionnaires in advance. The Follow-up Office has also prepared a model questionnaire for this purpose which it uses to check the questionnaires of the insurers. The doctors at the Follow-up Office have the necessary medical expertise to assess the pertinence of a question in the questionnaire. Legislative is all right. All KBs have been published so that they can be effectively launched next year. The next evaluation, in two years' time, will look at how we can achieve an increase in the number of chronic diseases.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u38	Madam Minister, I would like to thank you for your detailed reply, which contained many positive elements. As far as the questionnaire is concerned, I will certainly read the opinion to which you referred, because it seems that all this is far less self-evident than it seems at first sight. I believe that empowering people and people who have the opportunity can go to different societies. Especially for the weakest in our society, who do not have these opportunities, a standardised questionnaire can be a solution. Thank you again for your reply and we look forward to its entry into force in April.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u39	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply, which was very complete. I'm right when I say diabetes isn't on the list yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u40	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u41	That's too bad.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u42	This will only be done at the next biennial evaluation by the CCE.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u43	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u44	Madam Minister, in practice, the rent of a house should not exceed one third of the household income. However, we often find that the payment capacity is overestimated by tenants or potential tenants. The Professional Institute of Real Estate Real Estate Agents or BIV advocates clear rules when it comes to providing income data to prospective tenants. The Flemish rental legislation is rather vague about the documents that can be requested at what stage, but the Data Protection Authority considers that this cannot be done at the introductory stage. The BIV is worried and asks questions. Madam Secretary, what specific questions did BIV ask you? Are you prepared to go into that? What measures can you take to ensure that data are made available so that families do not underestimate the rents that are not in line with their income?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u45	Mr Van Lommel, my answer will have to be very brief, in the sense that rental legislation is a Flemish competence. When we are talking about the provision of the income of prospective tenants, we are talking about privacy, which is a competence of my colleague, Minister De Backer, while the Professional Institute of Real Estate Real Estate Agents falls within the competence of the Minister of Middlestand Ducarme. I'm sorry to have to answer you that way. I can only advise you to address them. Mr President, perhaps we can avoid this in the future and the questions can automatically be assigned to the appropriate committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u46	There's not much to say. Mr President, I am therefore addressing you to the question of how we should deal with this matter in future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u47	It is difficult for the secretariat staff to assess whether a question addressed to a minister actually falls within its remit. It's not that simple. I wouldn't like them to have to make that judgment either. In the specific case, I propose that you re-table your question and address it to Mr De Backer and Mr Ducarme, who will be coming to the committee on 27 November 2019. If you submit your question again, it may be referred immediately to Mr Ducarme when he comes to committee next time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u48	Mr President, I will certainly do so. I look forward to it, because the question is certainly interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u49	Madam Minister, energy suppliers must give sufficient clarity to their customers about the existence of potentially cheaper contracts. They are required to do so under the Energy Code of Conduct adopted in 2017 and now the Fifth Code of Conduct in the energy sector. The Code of Conduct provides for many measures to make it easier for consumers to compare prices and to choose the most advantageous provider. I heard that you promised to ensure that the rules on transparency are respected. How do you evaluate transparency regarding the possibility of cheaper contracts? Are the rules applied correctly? What pain points can be exposed in that? Do you think that action is needed to further strengthen the code of conduct? We all know that a code of conduct is not legislation, but it is binding on the companies that sign it. If I am not mistaken, 95% of energy suppliers have signed the code. Have sanctions been taken in the past period?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u50	Mr President, Mr Van Lommel, I can also be brief here, but I will reply. Indeed, on 25 October, I commissioned the FPS Economy to carry out a thorough review of the application of the Code of Conduct in the energy sector, in particular as regards the new provisions on transparency that were added in June 2017. An in-depth evaluation takes time and therefore this information is not yet available. I cannot draw any conclusions from this today either. I can inform you when the conclusions are available and the exercise is ready and you can ask a new question. I hope to have that evaluation within a few weeks. Since the review in June 2017, 30 projusti's have been drawn up for infringements of the Consumer Agreement. A total of 20 files were closed with the payment of a transaction. In the other ten cases, the file was transferred to the court.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic052x.u51	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. Apparently, I was pretty quick to submit this question. I note that you are currently working on the evaluation, but the conclusions are not yet available. I will certainly come back to this in a few weeks' time.
