ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-17-55-commissie-ic009x.u1	Madam President, I would have liked to have asked my question first because the family of an Antwerp law student is here in the gallery. She has not been allowed out of Turkey for a long time and is in prison there. I have a question on this for the Minister and the family in the gallery would like to hear this question and the answer. I fear that this question may not be put again otherwise.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-17-55-commissie-ic009x.u2	It is indeed Question 20 on the agenda. If there are any colleagues who feel an urgent need to ask their question today, they must now express it. We can then take that into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-17-55-commissie-ic009x.u3	I have no problem with that in itself, but the questions about the destruction of infrastructure by Israel are also important. I'd like to ask those questions, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-17-55-commissie-ic009x.u4	But you have no problem with Mr Freilich's question being asked first? For the first time, I'll be a little flexible. You can also ask for an extension for your question at any time. If that does not happen and you are not present, the question will be withdrawn. You can also ask to convert your question into a written question. I will be flexible at the beginning, but I will act more strictly over time, otherwise this committee will not be able to meet efficiently and questions will be dragged along until the end.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-17-55-commissie-ic009x.u5	Madam President, thank you for the flexibility you have shown by having my question addressed first. This is the first time I have asked an oral question at a committee meeting. Minister, I certainly did not intend to rob you when you arrived here, quite the contrary. It was intended to give you a letter in a friendly way. I will make sure that in future I agree with your cabinet on such matters. My oral question concerns the case of one young lady, but there are several Belgian citizens who are detained in Turkey, either in prison or because they are not allowed to leave the country. In the specific case I submit, this is an Antwerp student who went to Turkey on vacation. She initially spent forty days in prison and now she has a prison sentence hanging over her head for as much as two years. The reason for this is that she shared or liked a number of Facebook posts four years ago. Members of the student's family are present in this conference room. They want to ask for a signal, as they feel that they are not receiving any support from the embassy and that no action is being taken in response to their requests for help. Minister, can you confirm how many compatriots are currently being held in Turkey? What can or will you do, through bilateral diplomatic contacts or through the formal expression of concerns to the Turkish embassy? Where there's a will, there's a way. We have seen that other countries, such as Angela Merkel for Germany, have obtained, in direct contact with Turkish authorities, the release of their nationals in Turkey. Finally, I would like to ask a question about travel advice. Is there anything else we can do to proactively warn our Belgian compatriots about the risks? Evidently, every few months our fellow countrymen are stuck in Turkey for what is a normal democratic process in our country, namely to share an opinion on an event.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-17-55-commissie-ic009x.u6	Madam President, Mr Freilich, I do not have exactly the same perception of friendly contact, as you mentioned. That wasn't my feeling about the contacts. However, you can always contact us. We'll organize something. I myself asked my head of the cabinet to contact me, no matter what happened. However, a preparatory phase should be organised for such a contact. In reply to your question, I would point out that a distinction must be made between, on the one hand, compatriots with an exit ban and, on the other hand, compatriots currently detained in Turkey. No countryman with an exit ban is currently in custody pending the end of his or her trial. In the meantime, they must not leave the country. In concrete terms, it concerns a dozen compatriots with an exit ban. At present, there are also about a dozen compatriots in custody. This situation is mainly linked to drug offences and terrorist activities. You know the problem of terrorist activity and its definition. Our concerns in the specific case have been raised several times with the Turkish authorities. That will continue to happen in the future. Because it is important for our diplomatic posts in Turkey to be able to follow up those personal files closely and as efficiently as possible, bilateral contacts take place in all discretion. However, I have always said that we must discuss such cases in all contacts. The current travel advice for Turkey remains current. The situation is closely monitored by our diplomatic post in Turkey and by the relevant service in Brussels. The information currently contained in the travel advice for Turkey is sufficient. In addition to this travel advice, our compatriots are encouraged to register on the Travellers Online platform for their travel abroad. That allows my services to organise rapid consular assistance and follow-up of individual files. We have taken note of the specific individual case based on the contact of my head of the cabinet with you and a number of other people.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-17-55-commissie-ic009x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. What Turkey describes as a terrorist activity often involves only a number of documents of opinion. However, I think you know that too, and I thank you for looking at this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-17-55-commissie-ic009x.u8	Madam President, Minister, shortly after the elections in late May, a number of children of IS fighters were repatriated to this country with the active help of the Belgian Government and the Belgian services abroad. This was done not only in all discretion, not to say in secret, but also does not seem to me to be entirely in line with what the government had decided, when it had full authority and a parliamentary majority, whether or not to return children of IS fighters. It was then that children of IS fighters would normally be admitted back to the country when they were not older than ten years old. Moreover, it was argued that our services at home and abroad would not be actively used to do so. It seems, therefore, that the government has deviated from this in all discretion in current cases. Among the children, who have since been repatriated, there are apparently two 14-year-olds and there is even a majority. I would have liked to have heard from you, Minister. How many children have been repatriated and what is their profile? When and by whom was the decision taken to repatriate these persons, and to actively engage our diplomatic and other services? Is there no problem with this political trend for a government in current affairs which has barely a third of the parliament behind it? Finally, are there any other repatriations in the pipeline? If so, can this be further clarified?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-17-55-commissie-ic009x.u9	Madam President, Mrs Samyn, six children have so far been repatriated from the camps in Syria. They concerned only Belgian orphans, unaccompanied minors and a girl who, as a minor, was the victim of parental child abduction. The decision to repatriate these six children is part of a ministerial decision of December 2017 in which the entire government decided to assist in the return of children under the age of 10 and by ad hoc decision on the return of children between 10 and 18. Since several of the repatriated children fell into this latter category, this was submitted to the core. There is no political trend. The operation to repatriate orphans was carried out in order to implement a decision of the entire government. No new repatriations from Syria are planned at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-17-55-commissie-ic009x.u10	It remains a pity that the government has taken a decision in current cases for which it had no full competence. In addition, the Directive has been derogated from by repatriating children over the age of 10 years. There is no basis here for such operations in public opinion. For teenagers there is a real chance that they have had military training and that they are fully indoctrinated. They are rightly considered to be a danger to the community and society. I therefore sincerely hope that these young people will be closely and closely monitored by the competent authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-17-55-commissie-ic009x.u11	Madam President, Minister, this summer a report was published in the press about the transfer of a Uighur family to the Chinese authorities from the Belgian Embassy. The newspaper De Morgen reported that a Uighur family, a mother and her four children, was arrested by the Chinese police on the night of 27 May while it was on the premises of the Belgian embassy in Beijing. According to reports in the media, the Belgian embassy staff themselves would have called the Chinese police to have the family removed from the embassy. The father of the family was previously recognized as a political refugee in our country. This incident raises many questions, not least because the Chinese government has a genuine policy of repression against the Uighurs. By the way, this was revealed by a talkative report by Human Rights Watch of September 2018, entitled China's Campaign of Repression against Xinjiang. Because of this incident, our country received strong international criticism. Minister, can you tell us exactly what happened on that night when the family was handed over to the Chinese police? Where exactly was the family at the time of the intervention of the Chinese police? Secondly, what is your response to the events during that night? Thirdly, can you accept that a family seeking protection at a Belgian embassy should be transferred to the local authorities? Is there a precedent, in other words that a person seeking protection in the field of a Belgian embassy, should be handed over to the local authorities? Fourthly, what conditions must be met before a Belgian embassy transfers a person seeking protection to the local authorities? Fifthly, is there going to be an investigation into exactly what happened on the night in question of 27 May 2019, as Amnesty International demands? Sixthly, what is the current state of affairs regarding the situation and location of this family? We first learned through the press that the family was located and that there was contact with the consular services, but after that it did not turn out to have been direct contact. So I would like to have some clarity on that. Finally, Belgium has a non-permanent seat on the Security Council for two years. How will you use this platform to put the worrying situation of the Uighurs in China on the agenda? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-17-55-commissie-ic009x.u12	Minister, our country has indeed already taken action against China and signed a statement together with 21 countries. This message to the UN Human Rights Council calls on China to stop the mass detention of the Uighur ethnic minority. It is clear that China is ignoring the facts. It has also reacted very negatively to this letter. In addition, persons already recognised as political refugees in our country were arrested on the premises of the Belgian embassy. My questions are therefore in line with those of my colleague. Minister, can you explain the Belgian position on Chinese repression, on the one hand, and the events on 27 May, on the other? What is the current situation of the family? Is there indeed going to be an investigation, as Amnesty International asks, into what happened on the night of 27 May?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-17-55-commissie-ic009x.u13	Madam President, it is true that this was my very first question last June, as a new Member of Parliament. The father of the Uighur family in question, a political refugee in Ghent, is also looking forward to an answer. As a first step, I asked a written question that I turned into an oral question because of the lack of an answer in August. Minister, I am not going to repeat the facts. They are known, including the kidnapping on May 29. I come directly to the questions. Can a Belgian embassy call on the police of a host country to evacuate persons, including women and children, who may face serious human rights violations and persecution in their country? Is there not an obligation to protect those who seek assistance from the embassy? What instructions are given to our diplomatic posts in this regard? Is it true that China requires foreign embassies, such as the Belgian embassy, to employ Chinese premises? If so, what is the link between these Chinese employees of the Belgian embassy and the central Chinese government? Who can make the decision to have the police enter the premises of an embassy under Belgian jurisdiction? Chinese police officers probably don't speak English, who serves as a translator and intermediary in these relationships? Did the minister know about this and give his approval to the Chinese police intervention in question that night? If persons from minorities or threatened, as is the case here with the Uighur family, ask for protection from the Belgian embassy but are detained or under surveillance, can our Belgian diplomats issue visas? I guess that's what we expect in that case. I would like to understand why the diplomats who had been announced on a trip to Xinjiang province never left. Have any disciplinary measures been taken against those responsible for this decision and who are ultimately responsible for the abduction by the Uighur family police?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-17-55-commissie-ic009x.u14	Minister, my question is about the same matter. I will not recall all the facts but simply point out that last June you announced the departure of a Belgian diplomat for the province of Xinjiang, from where the family comes from, in order to ensure the situation of this one. It was also planned that the ambassador would contact the Chinese authorities in order to allow this family to leave the country. First of all, what reasons did they cause our embassy to fail to comply with this family's request and to ask it to leave despite its situation? To your knowledge, did the Belgian embassy, yes or no, appeal to the Chinese police on the night of May 28-29? If so, did the latter's role consist of simple negotiation or was force used to expel the family? Do you know what happened to the family in the days that followed this event? Finally, according to your information, what is the situation of this family at the present time? Do our diplomats on the spot continue to follow the situation even from afar? Is any action being taken to ensure the safety of this family and to allow its reunification in the near future?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-17-55-commissie-ic009x.u15	Colleagues, I am following closely the human rights situation of the Uighurs in Xinjiang. In the context of our bilateral relations with China, this issue is regularly raised during meetings at all levels. Furthermore, at the end of 2018, together with a number of similar countries, our embassy signed a letter addressed to the party secretary of the Autonomous Region of Xinjiang, asking to discuss the human rights situation. At multilateral level, Belgium is also actively following up the human rights situation of the Uighurs in China. We do not hesitate to express our concern in the various relevant UN fora. In July last year, together with 21 other countries, our country signed a letter addressed to the President of the Human Rights Council and the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights on the human rights situation in Xinjiang. In addition, our country intervened during China's Universal Periodic Investigation in November 2018. This is a unique mechanism of the UN Human Rights Council that allows the human rights situation in each UN Member State to be examined on a cyclical basis by all other Member States. Belgium has made the recommendation to put an end to the practice of locking up national ethnic and religious minorities who have not been lawfully convicted of a criminal offence in re-education camps and of releasing the persons detained in these circumstances. Belgium has also asked for China's intentions to respond to the concerns expressed by the United Nations. Human rights are also an essential pillar in relations between the European Union and China. Belgium continues to provide political support to address the situation of Uighurs and other minorities with the Chinese authorities at European Union level. Thus, the situation of ethnic and religious minorities is examined in the framework of the annual human rights dialogue between the European Union and China. This issue is systematically raised at the sessions of the Human Rights Council. Finally, I can assure you that the human rights situation of the Uighurs in Xinjiang is an issue that we continue to actively monitor. As regards the incident at the Belgian embassy in Beijing on 29 May, I have already described the circumstances. Mrs Abula Wureyetiguli and her children went twice to the Belgian embassy in Beijing. The Chinese police, which controlled access to the embassy, granted them access to premises outside office hours, after consultation with the consular services, so that they could complete their family reunification file. Once again, this is a family reunification dossier. They hoped to get a safe passage, with which they could travel to Belgium. However, the post was not able to issue that document, pending the final decision of the Foreign Office. Moreover, they did not have the necessary Chinese passports to issue the visas. Then they refused to leave the embassy sidewalk, even after repeated requests from the embassy services, which could not go unnoticed by the Chinese authorities. As a reminder, it is the authorities of the host country who are responsible for the security of the embassy and the persons, under the Vienna Convention. The decision was taken jointly by Brussels and the post office. It was a choice between allowing a long sit-in at our embassy, after which the Chinese authorities would never have issued an exit document to those persons, or remove them from the embassy, in good consultation with the Chinese authorities, and then try to help them obtain passports from the same authorities. That second option was chosen. In the opinion of our department, this approach would give the family the best chance to reunite in Belgium. I am willing to listen to other possibilities, but I do not think it was absurd to try to help the family with a view to family reunification. In July, the Belgian embassy in Beijing contacted the family again, who had since returned home. In July, two diplomats moved from our embassy to Ürümqi, in the province of Xinjiang, in consultation with the Chinese authorities. Unfortunately, they were unable to have direct contact with the family, but they found that the family still lives in the same neighborhood, pending the delivery of travel documents by the Chinese government. We have also heard that a judicial inquiry would have been conducted in China against Mr Ablimit, which could have an impact on the Belgian family reunification dossier. On the Belgian side they are now ready to deliver the visa, but without a Chinese passport the family cannot leave the country to join the father. A departure with a laissez-passer would not be accepted by the Chinese government. Since Mr Ablimit's recent visits to our service on 30 July and 12 August, there has been no further development in the file. We have therefore asked the Chinese authorities once again for a concrete follow-up and the state of play in the judicial investigation. For us, this dossier has been a purely bilateral consular issue of family reunification between Belgium and China since the beginning. We wish to cooperate with the Chinese authorities as closely and discreetly as possible in the search for a positive solution for the family. As regards the conditions to be met before a Belgian embassy transfers a person seeking protection to the local authorities, reference should be made to the judgment of the European Court of Justice in Case C-638/16 PPU, recital 49. I quote: 'The acts of the Union adopted on the basis of Article 78 of the Treaty which regulate the procedures applicable to applications for international protection do not refer to applications lodged in the diplomatic representation of the Member States and even exclude them from the scope of the Treaty. Thus, it is clear from Article 3 (1) and (2) of Directive 2013/36/EU that it applies only to applications for international protection lodged in the territory of the Member States. Also on the border and in international waters or in transit zones, but not on requests for diplomatic asylum that would be submitted to the representations of the Member States. Thus, Article 1 and Article 3 of Regulation No 604/2013 also state that it merely obliges the Member State to examine any application for international protection lodged on the territory of a Member State, including at the border and in transit zones, but that the procedures of this regulation do not apply to other questions for international protection." I would also draw your attention to the fact that Article 22 of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations provides that the authorities of the host State are responsible for the security of the embassy in such a situation. I would add, to answer the questions of Messrs. De Maegd and Cogolati, that no violence was committed in this particular case. I repeat that the choice is always very difficult. It was for the embassy to ask itself, by contacting the services in Brussels, what was the best solution possible in the interests of the family. If the committee so wishes, I am fully prepared to examine the other options. I am thinking, for example, of organizing a kind of sit-in in the embassy. If that happened, the conflict with the Chinese authorities would be much more important. I want to reassure you about the situation. Today, a telephone contact was still held with Mrs.Abula. It states that children are well in school and things are going well, but that the discussion about obtaining transport documents – passports – remains particularly difficult. I do not hide from you that this is why we are trying to work in complete discretion in these family reunification cases. I cannot say that this has been a great success here. Without the agreement of the local authorities, we do not have the capacity to organize the grouping. We cannot do this either without the agreement of the Belgian authorities, but we have since obtained it from the Office of Foreigners. After the incident at the Belgian embassy, an interview was organised between Amnesty International and our competent services. A discreet approach to the dossier remains appropriate. However, I repeat that I am prepared to organise a contact between my services and the committee in order to find the best possible solution. However, I repeat that, in order to achieve family reunification, we must get an agreement from the local authorities on the passport. It is therefore logical that the embassy should look for the best possible decision to allow contact with the Chinese government. I gave you a concrete answer. I must point out that we are now trying to get a positive response on the dossier. I understand that a number of NGOs and a number of actors, such as Amnesty International, have now understood that it is possible to exert pressure on the Chinese authorities, but on the basis of our bilateral contacts and our local contacts in Xinjiang. I repeat, it will not be easy. I started my reply with our position on the human rights of the Uighur people in Xinjiang. I know this is a very difficult situation. A family reunification and, at the same time, a judicial investigation against the father, who is now residing in Belgium, do not create the easiest situation to find a solution. I am prepared to hold many discussions on the possible reactions of our diplomatic service. However, in such a case, it was useful to maintain proper contact with the Chinese authorities. We have verified whether it was possible for the family to return to her village: in the same neighborhood, in the same house and with a correct presence of the children at school.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-17-55-commissie-ic009x.u16	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your detailed reply. First of all, it is very good that our country should follow closely the Uighur issue in international fora and address human rights violations in this area, but then it is also important that we treat the Chinese authorities very carefully, knowing what policy they are pursuing with regard to this minority. That is why we have asked the question. If that family is handed over and asked the authorities to intervene, then they know that they are taking a great risk, that they do not know what the fate of those people will be and what action the authorities will take. I understand the dilemmas facing us. However, it will not be the first time such a thing has happened and it may not be the last time. Our country has recognized the husband as a political refugee, so we acknowledge that he was oppressed. Then you wouldn't hand over your family members to the oppressor, would you? You understand that alternatives must be sought. That indeed requires consultation with that anxious family. They must be placed elsewhere and they must take their own initiatives, because if they are simply handed over to the authorities they are taking a great risk. It is important to look at how we deal with such dilemmas. You emphasise very strongly here that this is a matter of family reunification. When it comes to a family reunification dossier in the context of a person recognised as a refugee, is it weird that there is no alternative to conveying the whole family and that we are bound with our hands and feet to the Chinese authorities? That sounds very paradoxical. The husband is recognized because there are problems with the Chinese authorities, and now they are 100% dependent on those authorities, which they know do not respect human rights and therefore the rights of that family. Have any alternatives been investigated or is it as effective as you say?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-17-55-commissie-ic009x.u17	Mrs Kherbache, this is not a topical debate, but the Minister can answer if he so wishes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-17-55-commissie-ic009x.u18	Madam President, I would like to point out that this is the law. I have nothing against a debate on a possible amendment of the law, but for the time being the current law applies. There were questions for family reunifications, nothing more. The exit from a particular country is the exclusive competence of that country itself. This is about China. We may ask for passports, but this is China's exclusive competence. You know that it is impossible to apply for asylum at our embassies. We must do this on the spot, or in another country, but not in our embassies. The question is whether we should open the door to asylum applications in all our embassies. This is not just about China, by the way. This does not seem to me to be the intention of the legislator. I understand the reasoning. With this particular decision we have sought a balance. However, I understand that this is a difficult task for a consular service. They've been in contact with the family for several hours. They tried to send the family back to their hotel. However, the Chinese authorities were present around the embassy. It was therefore not difficult for them to assess the situation. The reasoning followed was to seek an opportunity to further negotiate with the Chinese government in order to issue a passport. However, I know that this will be very difficult, especially with so much media attention. I know that the Chinese government has a different perspective on this case as well. I understand the reasoning, but I'm also looking for other solutions. I repeat, however, that we must respect the law. At the time it was impossible to get an agreement from DVZ on this. This is possible for family reunification, but even with an agreement from our services we still have to provide passports for the family. It is not so obvious that the Chinese government will be prepared to do so. I am trying to make a difference between a general reaction and a very precise question about the human rights situation of the Uighurs in Xinjiang. In addition, day after day we try to provide help to individuals and families. I know this would be easier if it could be discreet. This particular case seems to me to be a failure. However, we will continue to work to this day and try to assist the family as well and as badly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-17-55-commissie-ic009x.u19	I would like to endorse what you have said, Minister. You are right to say that we must not create a suction effect. The embassy is not authorized to grant asylum. It is perhaps possible to consider how to deal with such an incident in the future. Apparently everything also happened "after the hours" and that doesn't make it so clear. I believe that it is in the family's interests to try to find a solution through diplomatic means, without raising this issue too much in public.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-17-55-commissie-ic009x.u20	Minister, thank you for your answers. Let us not be naive, we know that in this province things are monstrous for this minority. Out of 11 million Uighurs, 1 million are locked up in internment camps. We've never known camps of such magnitude. I understand the reaction of the family. I understand, via the father, that on the day of the arrest – or the kidnapping – they were in television communication via a cell phone. They knew what was going to happen. I am therefore surprised at this decision on/off at the embassy. Can we not develop alternatives that are more respectful of the interests of a mother and her children who are threatened with serious persecution in their country? It must be noted that this family reunification file leaves little hope today. I support your efforts and those of your administration. I hope that China will be able to let them pass as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-17-55-commissie-ic009x.u21	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am reassured by the absence of violence. I would point out, however, that there has been psychological violence in this case. I am also reassured by the current situation of the family. However, I encourage you to continue the dialogue with the Chinese authorities to try to achieve this family reunification in a discreet manner, through a humanitarian solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-17-55-commissie-ic009x.u22	Madam President, I repeat that this is not a kidnapping at all. This is a lengthy discussion with the family, including a family member who was in contact with people outside, far from China. We tried to convince them to leave the embassy and even offered to take them home – which was refused by one of the family members. Without any violence, they were taken back to the hotel and then to the province in question. You're talking about the camps, but the family doesn't live in a camp. I am not saying that the family is in an exceptional situation, but, following a contact made yesterday, the mother answers our embassy's questions by saying that this happens as well as it can happen with other children at the school in the village in which this family lives. That this is a perfect situation, certainly not; but I would like it not to give the impression that the abduction of a family would have been organized to take it to a camp. Our diplomats have the right to greater respect for their work. I repeat, it was a difficult choice that was stopped. As I said, I am open to hearing other options. If every person who enters an embassy – even outside the opening hours – wants to stay there, we must realize that asylum in our country is impossible to establish in our consular and diplomatic services. Moreover, no other European country applies such a rule. I know very well that a whistleblower stayed in an embassy for a very long time, but he was being prosecuted for other facts. Having said that, I will not enter this debate, because the present situation is quite different. In a country where the existence of the Uighur minority is particularly difficult, it seems to me that our services have tried to favour the search for solutions for family reunification. If Parliament wants to debate other options than this one for such a case, I am not sure that you will easily find a majority to offer the possibility of granting asylum applications in embassies. We will continue our work on this issue, as we do for others. Don't make me say what I didn't say; I don't think the situation is ideal. Certainly not. Besides, if you want to know the substance of my thinking, I consider that the family should not have met in Beijing. I do not know why the process was undertaken, when the problem could not be solved that day, but I understand the desire for satisfaction as soon as possible. As we will continue our work, I call for continued contact with China. I would remind you that an important economic mission will be organised there in November. On that occasion, I would ask that such cases be referred to again. As I have often indicated in committee, we are trying to act as discreetly as possible. In this case, I recognize – and that is the least we can say – that this requirement of discretion has not led to success.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-17-55-commissie-ic009x.u23	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, in Poland we have seen a lot of things, a lot of bad things for some time now. Today, a very recent Justice decision allows a curious application of the field of "freedom of conscience". It makes it possible to consider "freedom of conscience" as a valid reason for traders to refuse to serve customers because of their religious beliefs or sexual orientation. Focus: LGBTQI, but not just. This, of course, is again an unacceptable discrimination of minorities – and especially LGBTQI people – in this Member State of the European Union and the Council of Europe, which is adding to others in this country where the conservatives have practically made it a state policy. Minister, do you intend to address this unacceptable situation with regard to the rights of LGBTQI people in Poland within the European Council and/or the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers? I know you made it one of your battle horses. More broadly, at the level of the European Union, where are we in the process of establishing a periodic review of the rule of law in all countries, in the way of the cross-examination of fiscal policies?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-17-55-commissie-ic009x.u24	Madam President, Mr Lacroix, the growing discrimination faced by LGBTQI people is a major concern of Belgium. As you know, this issue is closely followed by our posts, including in Warsaw, the Permanent Representation to the Council of Europe in Strasbourg and by my services in Brussels. Our support is expressed through concrete actions, such as the participation of our positions in events organized on the occasion of the International Day against Homophobia and Transphobia, the signing of a letter of support for the organisation of the Equality Parade 2019 and the delivery of this letter to the representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the participation in the Equality Parade of 8 June last. Our position in Warsaw will assume the role of coordinator in 2020 with regard to the support and participation of the local diplomatic corps in events concerning LGBTQI rights. In this context, it plans to organize several events to raise awareness of the cause. The situation and protection of the rights of LGBTQI people is one of the central issues on which the Council of Europe is actively working. Indeed, the Council of Europe's norms and mechanisms ensure that the fundamental rights of all, including equality in law and the dignity of all human beings, are promoted and respected. The rise of homophobic acts in Europe was addressed from the first Committee of Ministers in September by the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, followed by a large number of Member States, including Belgium. The French Presidency will organise, within a time frame to be specified, an informal Committee of Ministers on Respect for LGBTQI People, at the request of Finland, supported by Belgium. In order to fill the gaps in the current mechanisms for the protection of the rule of law, since February 2016, I have already proposed a periodic review of the rule of law in the European Union. This peer review would allow us to identify the risks of drift at an early stage and discuss them to find a satisfactory solution. The practical modalities of this mechanism will still have to be defined, but some principles can already be put forward: a political dialogue, where all Member States would be placed on an equal footing, the inclusion of all Member States and a periodic evaluation, as required by the mechanism. Belgium, in collaboration with Germany, at an informal ministerial meeting on 19 March, submitted a declaration to all Member States on the establishment and basic principles of a periodic peer review on respect for the rule of law. This statement received great support. It was decided to set up a working group to continue working on the concrete modalities of this peer review, so that a proposal could be presented under the Finnish Presidency in the context of the evaluation of the dialogue on the rule of law at the end of this year. The Finnish Presidency has made this rule of law action a priority. I would add that the Commission also stated in its communication of 17 July its intention to establish a review cycle on the rule of law on the basis of an annual report on the subject. The best way to integrate the two systems, namely this assessment, which would be the subject of an annual report by the Commission, and the political debate, which would probably take place in the General Affairs Council, is currently being considered. This means that after more than three years, the process begins to succeed, with this Commission initiative last July, and with the progress of the peer review approach.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-17-55-commissie-ic009x.u25	Madam President, I thank the Deputy Prime Minister for the quality of his answer. We have already talked about it several times, but I see that being at the head of his department, he took the bull by the horns. As he pointed out, for the past three years the government itself and Belgium in general have been promoting respect for minority rights. I see that these efforts are beginning to bear fruit, even if the process is slow. Other States are proactive in this regard and join Belgium in this fight for fundamental democratic values and respect for differences. I am pleased to learn that, at the end of this year, the Finnish Presidency will provide something that I believe is important for the respect of minority rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-17-55-commissie-ic009x.u26	Madam President, Minister, my question concerns an incident that took place on 2 July. In the meantime, of course, a lot has already happened. We have often discussed the problem of refugees in the Libyan camps. You are aware of our position in this regard. On 2 July an air raid took place at a refugee centre in Tripoli, where, according to the United Nations, at least 53 people were killed. The situation in detention centres there has not really improved. Thousands of people are trapped. In practice, these detention centres are also run by militias. Reports include physical and sexual violence, forced labour and imprisonment in unworthy circumstances. In that connection, Minister, I have the following questions. There is still a civil war in Libya. Refugees and migrants live there in appalling conditions. In this context, do you still believe that the European Union should cooperate with the Libyan Coast Guard to this extent, which means that people are sent back to Libya, which in practice amounts to the outsourcing of pushbacks? Will you argue that Tripoli and other Libyan ports should not be considered safe port or call for rescued refugees and migrants at sea? Are you prepared to argue for a European system to save people at sea, possibly with military ships, in cooperation with NGOs? Are you prepared to argue that rescued people should be spread across all the European Member States? In that dossier there is some evolution, because it seems that Italy could give ships with refugees the permission to dock again. Italy is asking for help from the European countries for relocation. I have seen that Belgium is not included in that limited list of countries willing to include refugees. That is why I am asking for your opinion. Do you have the willingness to do so, to respond positively to the current demand of the Italian authorities? I did not include that last question in the text of my oral question, but you may understand that, since my question dates back to the beginning of July.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-17-55-commissie-ic009x.u27	Madam President, Mr De Vriendt, I do not need to remind you of the particular political and security context in Libya, which is a real challenge for the Libyan authorities, the international community and the international organisations present on the ground to improve the situation of that country and its people. The crossing of the Mediterranean is a precarious undertaking which unfortunately has already cost too many people their lives. The first objective of European support to the Libyan Coast Guard is therefore to save lives. In support of the Libyan Coast Guard, the EU shall, in particular, ensure that rescue operations are carried out in sufficiently safe conditions and that migrants are not subsequently subjected to abuse by the Libyan authorities or other actors present in Libya. Respect for human rights is of paramount importance and violations must be punished. Belgium has therefore strongly condemned the attack on the refugee camp in Tajoura and called for the perpetrators to be held accountable. Despite this difficult context, Belgium continues to support all initiatives that contribute to the defence of the rights of migrants and local communities in Libya. Belgian support for such initiatives is reflected in a series of programmes financed by the EU totalling EUR 300 million. The support provided by the EU Operation Sophia to the Libyan Coast Guard consists of forming and training the members of the Coast Guard, with the emphasis on respect for human rights and proper treatment of migrants and refugees. In addition, a mechanism shall be set up to monitor the effectiveness of such training as well as the behaviour of the Coast Guard. To this end, the EU is working closely with the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and with the International Organisation for Migration. Belgium is open to a temporary arrangement for the distribution of migrants rescued at sea on the basis of quotas agreed in advance between the EU Member States that would voluntarily participate in that mechanism. However, this agreement will have to benefit from the approval of a significant number of Member States. It will have to combine solidarity with the responsibility of the countries that are initially involved. That scheme would include measures based on good practices identified during the rescue operations in the Mediterranean. However, such an agreement should under no circumstances prejudice the reform of the Common European Asylum System, a priority for Belgium on which negotiations should continue. Belgium considers that there is no military solution to the conflict in Libya. Our country has called for an immediate ceasefire and a return to the negotiating table under the guidance of the UN. Belgium also regrets that the UN Security Council has not been able to adopt a resolution calling for a ceasefire, respect for international humanitarian law, in particular the protection of the most vulnerable persons, including migrants and refugees in Libya, as well as respect for the arms embargo. However, that does not prevent our country from continuing to argue in the Security Council for the same points, in particular a political process led by the UN, the protection of the weakest groups in Libyan society, including migrants, and the respect of the arms embargo. In reply to your question about Belgium's participation and possible access to our territory for a number of people on a boat in the Mediterranean, I should like to inform you that I was in Paris with a number of colleagues for a meeting on the initiative of my two French colleagues, the Foreign Minister Le Drian and the Minister for the Interior, Castaner. I would like to point out that we are not opposed to a possible participation of Belgium, which I have also reported to the Belgian Government. Now, as I have already said, we have to think of a specific agreement with a number of Member States to do so and to go further. I have nothing against a debate in Parliament and in committee to indicate the possible limits of Belgium's action. It is true that so far I have not seen a positive response within the government to make a specific decision on a specific case. That is why I have replied to you that we are asking for a more general decision for all possible actions. However, I am not opposed to a discussion on this issue, here in committee or with other Members of Parliament. I do not know whether it will be possible to find a majority for this, as for INSTEX, but we can try.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-17-55-commissie-ic009x.u28	Madam President, Minister, could the government not take the decision to respond positively to Italy's question? Isn't that a decision the government could make right now?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-17-55-commissie-ic009x.u29	Madam President, Mr De Vriendt, it is not necessary to make a decision. There is an agreement between some countries on a division. With that agreement on a sufficient number of places, it is not necessary to go to others. However, it will be better to take a prior decision on an agreement on a division between a number of countries. I repeat, however, that until now I have not seen any real demand within the government for such participation, except on the basis of a prior agreement between a larger number of Member States. We have noticed in the most recent cases that these were some of the Member States and, above all, those of the former Mediterranean countries, with the exception of Luxembourg or any other Member State.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-17-55-commissie-ic009x.u30	I hope that you or your colleagues will put that question within the government. That's our explicit question. I see openness, but I do not see any clear commitment that we will do so. For the rest, when it comes to the European theory of supporting the coastguard who rescues the refugees and brings them back under humane circumstances, I can only say that the theory is very far from practical. Unfortunately, that is not something we only discovered this week. We've known that for a few months. It is really the hypocrisy of European migration policy to maintain this system. It is one of the great shames of how Europe deals with migration. We know what happens to those people in detention centres, and we actually allow it. There's some movement in Italy now, there's some openness. Italy can once again become the partner you mentioned, so the situation is changing. Let's really seize that moment. The Italian Government is sticking its neck out and is now really counting on other European partners to help. Otherwise, we're back in a Salvini scenario. The ball is now also in the camp of the other European Member States.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-17-55-commissie-ic009x.u31	Madam President, Minister, a first case of Ebola haemorrhagic fever has been confirmed in Goma, Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). This scenario was dreaded and "potentially changing the whole deal," according to the World Health Organization (WHO). In fact, last June, the WHO considered the current epidemic to be a health emergency only for the DRC and the region. However, the outbreak of Ebola in Goma – a city of one million inhabitants, which is a real square city in the Great Lakes region – is a "warning," according to WHO emergency manager Mike Ryan. This epidemic is the second largest Ebola epidemic in history, after the one that killed nearly 11,000 people in West Africa in 2013-2014. We remember the Belgian intervention, essential, via a team of B-FAST and a mobile laboratory in Guinea to combat the spread of the Ebola virus. This laboratory was the result of excellent collaboration between Defence, the Catholic University of Leuven, Belgian SMEs, Luxembourg and the European Space Agency. Minister, as the appropriate minister for B-FAST, can you tell me what follow-up is given by our country to this disturbing information? Has assistance been requested by the DRC and/or by NGOs and international organisations active on the ground? Is Belgium ready to respond to such a request – and if so, with what potential means?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-17-55-commissie-ic009x.u32	Madam President, Mr Ben Achour, the Director General of WHO has announced that the spread of Ebola in the Democratic Republic of the Congo is an international public health emergency. Since then, Belgium has not yet received a bilateral request for assistance from the Congolese authorities. I would also like to inform you that my services in Brussels and at our embassy in Kinshasa are closely following developments in this matter. At the time, the Belgian government had decided to support the French Ebola virus treatment centre in N'Zérékoré, Guinea, with a mobile laboratory. To this end, the Belgian Government has activated the procedures for the logistical support necessary for the deployment of this mobile laboratory. Indeed, it was not B-FAST as an emergency humanitarian aid tool that had been activated in the fight against the Ebola epidemic, since B-FAST's mandate and capabilities did not foresee it. I should like to add that, as the President of the Democratic Republic of the Congo is in Brussels for the time being, we have had the opportunity today to discuss the matter with him. The two main elements I have retained are that for the time being the number of cases per day is decreasing. That's pretty good news. In spite of all this, we would have about ten cases reported a day knowing that we went up to more than twenty, some time ago. It's a first point of reference. In addition, there is now a willingness not only to fight the epidemic as it is now known, but also to develop research programmes, particularly in the area of origin of the virus. You know that it was in the seventies that the Ebola virus appeared in the Congo. We are therefore trying to work on the origin of the phenomenon in an attempt to eradicate it. I know that there are Japanese supporters in this area, but without going into the details, the president will visit the Institute of Tropical Medicine in Antwerp tomorrow. It will probably also be an opportunity to re-examine the possibilities for action. My colleague in charge of cooperation also had contacts on this subject earlier to see whether in the transitional programme announced by the Cooperation, one could not imagine a formula. I also know that there was a fairly urgent demand on the part of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, particularly for the children affected by this phenomenon. That is what we have done so far. In the ongoing discussions, we have signed Memorandum of Understanding (Memorandum of Understanding) on Finance, Foreign Affairs, but also on Cooperation and the resumption of transitional cooperation. Particular attention is paid to the situation. The Ebola virus is indeed an important element.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-17-55-commissie-ic009x.u33	Minister, thank you for your encouraging, accurate and positive responses. I would like to stress the usefulness of B-FAST at a time when some would like to reduce its budget. It is necessary to maintain this initiative in the future.
