ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic035x.u1	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have already discussed this important subject with your colleague Bacquelaine. Since 1 July, the factors are responsible for verifying the actual presence in our territory of the beneficiaries of GRAPA (income guarantee allowance for the elderly). To qualify for this allowance, a very strict condition is laid down: to reside in Belgium. From now on, it is the responsibility of the factors to check at least once a year whether this condition is met. This new mission is far from unanimous, as it has been denounced by trade unions in particular. Similarly, my group believes that the factor should not become an instrument in the fight against social fraud. We have always been in favour of extending its role - and it was often discussed during the previous legislature - but it is the nature of it that matters. For example, when it comes to helping older people shop or buy drugs, it is an interesting experience that comes from urban surveys conducted by CPAS and provides a positive service to our fellow citizens. On the other hand, we do not want the factor to become a social controller, whose function would be punitive. That is the fundamental difference. From now on, the factor will be able to carry out up to three checks, following which the beneficiary will receive a sanction if he does not present himself within five days at the communal house. We are well aware that the postal sector is changing and that more and more parcels are being distributed, while the number of paper mail continues to decrease. We are constantly debating it in committee. However, it is appropriate to extend the scope of the factor, but without giving it a control function which is not related to a positive service provided to society. Moreover, all the surveys carried out by the Belgian Institute for Postal Services and Telecommunications (IBPT) show that its mission is perceived very favourably by our fellow citizens. We therefore hope that this will continue to be the case. Minister, I come to my questions. What was the framework for the negotiations between the Administration of Pensions and bpost? Have a testing period and an evaluation been planned? Have any trainings been carried out in connection with this new role? Finally, can Members of the committee have access to the framework contract between bpost and the finance administration? We believe it is important to look at the wording of this new factor mission.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic035x.u2	Mr Minister, I could limit myself to saying that I join the content of my colleague Gilles Vanden Burre's question. My development and my questions are almost the same. Last Tuesday, we had a debate on the same subject with Mr Bacquelaine. We are well aware that the law of 2001 provides that the beneficiary of social assistance has his or her principal residence in Belgium and cannot be absent more than 30 days a year. The question then is how control is exercised and who exercises control. I join my colleague's statement on the social role of the factor which, unfortunately, has fallen sharply in recent decades. It may be necessary to find new missions to factors, to post officers, but one might wonder whether they should intervene in a monitoring mission. Finally, who says controls also says sanctions. This can be seen as a repressive policy by citizens, perhaps with a whole series of discussions on reality. Indeed, for all kinds of reasons, the elderly person may not respond to the call. And I refer to last week's report, which includes the examples I had given - not being at home, not hearing the call, having a defective bell, etc. How will officers be able to distinguish actual absences from other reasons why the recipient does not respond to the appeal? Minister, what are you thinking about reinvigorating the social role of the factor with isolated people? It does not seem to me to be the right way to get him to carry out sanctions-related monitoring missions. I also asked Mr Bacquelaine whether, prior to this provision, you had sought the opinion of what was known as the Privacy Commission, which is now known as the Data Protection Authority. If there is an opinion, can we dispose of it? If this has not been done, and since there will be an evaluation of the mechanism, can you seek that opinion from that Authority? Is that your intention? With regard to the financial agreement, we did not have a reply from Mr Bacquelaine. You're the appropriate minister. This financial agreement has been appealed. Can we know the nature of the contract and the amounts involved? I assume that the State will pay certain amounts for benefits to bpost. Is it possible to obtain a copy of this contract, whether publicly or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic035x.u3	Minister, we also want the postman to play a social role and not a controlling role. The postman function is already very extensive. He or she's already got a lot of work to do. In our country, about 110,000 people over 65 receive an income guarantee. These are Belgians who have to live with little means of subsistence. These people are often in a precarious situation. Last year 65 people out of 110,000 entitled to their IGO benefit were suspended. Minister, how will this work in practice? Will the mailman have enough time to ring the doorbell? Now you have 80 seconds to wait at the door. If people are late to open the door, they get a letter on the bus. Then they automatically go to the second phase, the control. How many checks on IGO beneficiaries have already been carried out by bpost staff and in which regions? Is postmen supposed to carry out more and more controlling tasks? How will this evolve from a more social function to a controlling function? Will the postmen be trained to carry out such checks? Will they also be reimbursed for these additional tasks? What are the social partners' views on these new proposals on the table?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic035x.u4	Mr President, I hope that my answers will clarify this because what I have heard here is absolutely not in line with the reality and the mandate given to Bpost. I always have a bit of a problem when it comes to politics. I'll actually try to explain what's actually going on. First of all, it should be recalled that GRAPA is not a pension. It's a social assistance allowance. As you said, Mr Vanden Burre, this social assistance involves the obligation for their beneficiaries to reside in Belgium, unlike pensioners who can move freely abroad. If this obligation exists, we must have the power to control it. We agree on this – in any case, I hope. Before 1 July, the Federal Pension Service (SFP) sent to GRAPA beneficiaries, already by bpost, a certificate of residence which was to be returned within 21 days after being completed by the municipality. Otherwise, the payment of GRAPA was suspended. The SFP indicated that of the more than 30,000 residence certificates sent in 2016, almost 5,000 (16%) resulted in a suspension of payment by GRAPA on the grounds that the return of the certificate had not taken place within the 21-day period. That was the old system. In my opinion, it was neither comfortable nor correct. It has given rise to numerous suspensions and procedures in order to finally amend the decision which was not always justified. Many problems have been created. The SFP therefore wanted to modify the procedure to make it more efficient and fairer. That's what's been done. As a result, since 1 July of this year, the GRAPA beneficiary must no longer travel to the commune to complete his certificate of residence. I think that's a good thing. The delivery of the document shall be effected by the factor at the beneficiary's residence in the hands of the beneficiary himself, after presentation of his valid identity card. It's like a recommended one. No more, no less! That is the role of the factor. In the event of the beneficiary's absence, two further attempts to submit the control document shall be made within 21 days of the first attempt. In the event that the beneficiary has not, at any time, had the opportunity to open the door to the mailman during his three attempts, the residence certificate is deposited a few days later in the recipient's mailbox. It is then up to him, as in the past, to come to the municipal administration to have his certificate of residence completed and sent back to the SFP. The procedure has become more efficient, much less difficult for older people. So it is a system that, in my opinion, is fairer than before. Even if this new procedure makes it possible to carry out a more effective control of residence in Belgium, under no circumstances does it make the factor a controller! bpost has paid particular attention to factor neutrality and privacy in its partnership with the SFP. The negotiated framework is very clear: bpost is a neutral logistics partner and the SFP remains in any case the control body. The role assigned to the factor is ultimately similar to the role it fulfills when presenting itself for a recommended fold. In my view, this is a way of doing things more effectively thanks to the factor which, as I said, has been entrusted no more or less than a logistical role. It is therefore quite clear that the postman remains within his role, but it is, of course, important that ex post controls are carried out. With this we have found a way that ultimately makes everything much clearer and easier for the customer, because in principle he is now offered the letter. He has to sign for that and then the document is in order. This is also clear for the services. For specific questions about the contract, please contact the Federal Pension Service. He outsourced his job and asked for a contract to bpost. So that's the right channel to get that contract. The project is closely monitored, on a daily basis, by bpost and SFP to ensure that bpost's operational participation is best achieved. Communications between the two entities take place. Beyond this constant monitoring, a more formal assessment is planned in early 2020. In a few months, we will evaluate the project and see how it works, its advantages, its disadvantages and the remaining problems. The process will be based on both bpost and SFP observations. So far, the results tend to show that factors do not encounter major problems and that things are going without concern in the vast majority of cases. Beneficiaries very much appreciate the advantage of no longer having to travel to the commune to be in administrative order. This is one of the first reactions we have received; the beneficiaries find it very positive. I hope, with these clarifications and the assessment that we will carry out at the beginning of next year, that this project can be continued. Let us talk about this project in a less vehement but more constructive way, respecting the role of the factor at bpost.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic035x.u5	Minister, thank you. I'll add a few more elements. I have no problem with changing the old system. It was not perfect and I recognize that administrative services can be optimized for the population. It is also important for us and does not pose any difficulties. It is not a question of immobilism or the will, present or not, to change, but a question of defining the role of the factor. You have responded in the same way as your colleague Bacquelaine, at least that is positive! But it doesn't convince me.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic035x.u6	The opposite would have been surprising!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic035x.u7	We agree! I will return to the comparison with the recommended. Minister Bacquelaine said the same thing you did. But we think differently. As a result of last week's debate, which was echoed in the press, I received the testimony of a lady by e-mail. I didn't check, but I can send it to you if you want. It's the bottom that's important. One of his neighbors has been checked. The mailman took a picture of the mail and ID card at the time of delivery. This kind of control goes further than just a recommended one. I know you have to give your ID card when you get a recommended one, but here, there's a photo shot, and so a report to the Pensions Administration, to check who's in order. The factor nevertheless participates in this chain of controls. This is a problem for us. You're announcing an evaluation in January 2020, it's important. I hope that we can also evaluate the first six months in committee on the basis of objective data. We have a problem with factor control. The role of the factor must be societal, but this is not the case here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic035x.u8	Minister, we know that GRAPA is not a pension. We know the residency requirement. All legislation requires control, but we need to know who is operating it and how. The old system can be reviewed and improved on some points, but not in the government's current business formula. Mr Bacquelaine tells us that it is like a recommendation, but it is not reality. The position officer is being given a role in a sanctioning process, which will lead to discussions because there will be squalls. The public concerned is old, fragile, there will be challenges. In addition, you reintroduce control for people over 80 years of age. In substance, we find it difficult to believe that the factor will have to assume this role. I asked some questions you didn't answer. Have you sought the prior opinion of the Data Protection Authority? Why is the contract confidential? Can Parliament be aware of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic035x.u9	Mr President, of course I can answer both questions at the same time. For my part, I find a little odd the reasoning that bpost would participate in a mode of sanction on the ground that this company is part of the logistics wing. However, when ONSS sends a registered mail to a company to collect money, this distribution mission is also part of the role of bpost. The document is then deposited in the recipient's own hands. After three tests, the old procedure, according to which the mail is inserted in the mailbox, followed by which the beneficiary has to go to the communal house himself. In other words, we have introduced a few preliminary steps in order to facilitate the life of the person concerned. This therefore corresponds well to the social function of the factor. I therefore believe that this is a step forward, not a step backwards. Furthermore, I do not believe that an application has been made to the Privacy Commission, since this is a matter of a contract between two bodies that is supposed to be respectful of the GDPR. It is not necessary to seek the opinion of this Commission whenever such a contract has been entered into. In this case, both entities must behave within the limits assigned by the GDPR. If a problem is reported by a customer – for example, because he has been asked for his identity card – he is still entitled to appeal to the Commission, in accordance with the law. Finally, it was the SFP that asked bpost – as it would have done with any other company, public or private – to execute the contract. It is therefore up to the Pensions Administration to communicate these documents transparently to Parliament, if requested by Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic035x.u10	Mr Vanden Burre, I will reply later. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic035x.u11	Minister, we have understood both points of view. I wanted to come back to the issue of the contract. Your colleague Bacquelaine officially sent me a copy of the e-mail of the application submitted to the administration. If we do not receive the document, I will count on your support for it. I understand that we need to apply for the SFP, but it is important that we receive the contract so that we can fulfil our parliamentary oversight mandate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic035x.u12	Minister, in principle, Parliament has the last word. We differ fundamentally in the interpretation of this file. You did not find it useful to seek this opinion because of the GDPR. However, if the factor sounds at Mr. X or Ms. Y, it is because he has a list of GRAPA beneficiaries and he has to act as part of a process that is still a monitoring process. This could be a justification for seeking this opinion. But this choice is your responsibility. You have decided not to ask, which we take note of. On the other hand, I hope that we will get the contract through the SFP or bpost. If not, we will not fail to ask for it to be communicated to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic035x.u13	Mr Minister, I do have a problem with it, because the ordinary people see it as a control. In the past, the postman was the man who brought the pension to the people. Now the postman is the man who has to check whether or not someone is entitled to an IGO. It's about a very small group of people. I have a lot of problems with people being harassed. The question of whether everything is okay creates a lot of stress in those people. We must ensure that people receive a decent pension. Then these checks should not be carried out and those people should not be subject to a system to check whether or not they are entitled to an IGO.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic035x.u14	We therefore have the right to allow social fraud. It's been noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic035x.u15	Mr President, Minister, the PostPoint in the Delhaize of Merelbeke-Flora was closed at the end of August. For many inhabitants this means extra worries, especially for those who are less mobile. After all, they will soon have to make much more effort to make use of bpost services. I reviewed the sixth management contract 2016-2020 for Services of General Economic Interest of bpost. In so doing, Bpost undertakes to ensure, as far as possible, the continuity of the presence of postal service points. To this end, some measures are adopted, such as contracts of indefinite duration and special clauses to limit the effects of cessation. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. First of all, what is the cause of the closure of the PostPoint? Secondly, who decided to close the PostPoint? Thirdly, did the contract between Bpost and Delhaze include measures to ensure continuity, as required by the sixth management contract? Was special clauses provided for to limit the effects of a cessation? Were they complied with in this particular case or not? Fourthly, how did Bpost implement its general commitments to ensure continuity? Finally, in order to ensure continuity, does bpost want to open a new PostPoint near the previous one? If so, where? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic035x.u16	Mr President, Mr Van Hecke, the closure of the PostPoint on 30 August came at the initiative of the local trader. The agreement between the business and bpost dates back to 2008. The third management contract in force at the time did not provide for some of the measures you listed. The agreement itself therefore did not contain such clauses. A continuous evaluation is being carried out throughout the Bpost retail network to try to maximise service provision and its proximity and continuity. For this there are more than 1 300 post offices and PostPoints. The management contract shall stipulate that the network shall contain at least 1 300 postal service points. On top of that, there are a thousand pick-up points that are available. When the network undergoes a number of changes, such as a halt in this case, an analysis shall be made of the way in which it is absorbed. The need for a new point is being assessed and the customer needs or customer behaviour in the region are being considered at that time. It is also examined whether the service point can be received by others. In this case, it was concluded that the transactions that took place in the PostPoint could be received by other postal service points in the neighborhood and that no new PostPoint should therefore be opened. Customer needs and transactions are constantly monitored. You know that the postal market is in full swing, with a shift from letters to packages. In this area, too, there is constant monitoring and consideration of customer behavior. As soon as it is established that there is a shifting need or a new need, any steps may be taken, but in this case the conclusion was that the closure could be met by other available PostPoints in the neighborhood.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic035x.u17	Minister, the problem is likely to be that the 2008 agreement dates back and that the sixth management contract, which includes a number of guarantees, does not apply here. However, we need to look at this more broadly. We cannot become too private, but it is about a densely populated area. Everything started in the period 2007-2008 when many post offices were closed and for densely populated neighborhoods in PostPunten was planned. The service was thus guaranteed, but if this fails, for many older people without public transport, it means that they have to go three to four kilometres further in order to enjoy essential postal services. In this sense, this is a decline in service provision. I am surprised that the analysis shows that in PostPunt not many transactions took place and that the work could be taken care of by a service point nearby. That seems to me to be a very bizarre conclusion. I do not know whether the figures and analysis of bpost can be made public, but I would certainly like to see them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic035x.u18	Mr President, Minister, although this question may seem somewhat surprising, I have been contacted by several fellow citizens wondering why it is not possible to reach the Proximus operator via e-mail. If an email address is available for relations with investors or the press, the consumer does not benefit from this possibility. It can go to a point of sale, return to telephone contact after long procedures or use an instant messaging system, for which it is necessary to arm with patience. But, at the time of digitalisation of the company, a customer no longer has the possibility to address via a simple e-mail to this company. I find this situation rather surreal. Minister, what concrete steps can you take to highlight this need in this endeavour? How do you justify this Proximus strategy? Is it possible to impose on Proximus the provision of a contact email address, visible and easily accessible, allowing everyone to send an e-mail to that operator?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic035x.u19	Mr President, Mr Clarinval, first of all I would like to say that, personally, I understand very well what you are saying. I'm a Proximus client myself and I understand. But I have to answer as minister. We contacted the company to ask him about this. She explained that on the proximus.be website, by clicking on the "contact" tab, you can have access to a "send an email" window. Behind this window, the visitor must refine his/her request and specify the purpose of his/her question so that the system sends his/her request to the appropriate service. Proximus does not provide a general e-mail address. Customers who do not find themselves in the menu on the Proximus website cannot send an email to Proximus. They must then head to the call center, where employees can help them, or a point of sale to have direct contact with a Proximus employee to explain the problem. You also know very well that Proximus is an independent public company. This means that the competent minister is not involved in the operational management of Proximus. Like any other company in the country, Proximus chooses its own level of availability for its customers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic035x.u20	Minister, thank you for your answer. I take note of the fact that, on a personal basis, you understand my request. I also know that the company is independent and that, in doing so, it assumes its choice. It is deplorable – I would like to stress this – that a Lambda citizen cannot send a classic e-mail. In addition, the recommended solution is not functional at all, which poses real communication difficulties for a range of people who need to relate to the digital operator. We're still in the 21st century. We find ourselves facing a surreal situation since it is not possible to send an e-mail to a company that is considered the national leader in communications. It's pretty amazing. But I know you can't help it. In any event, I hope that, in one way or another, Proximus will agree to correct this situation in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic035x.u21	Question No 55000707C by Mrs Kattrin Jadin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic035x.u22	Mr De Vriendt apologized.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic035x.u23	Mr President, my question concerns mobility in the North Sea. In June 2019, following a tender and bidding procedure, the French government granted the concession of a new wind farm 10 km above Dunkirk, bordering the park for which you have allocated space in the marine spatial plan. However, there is a problem. The port of Ostend rang the alarm at the beginning of July, because the planned wind farm jeopardises the accessibility of the port of Ostend for possible ferries to and from the United Kingdom. The windmill park would be located right in the canals that connect the port of Ostend with Dover and Ramsgate in the United Kingdom. It could even hinder the traditional sailing routes of many other ships. I am told that you were already contacted in 2018 about the location of the French wind farm. To my written question on the subject I submitted during the summer months, you replied that the French authorities sent us a letter in April of this year asking for our country's opinion on the strategy de façade maritime, which also contains the plans for the wind farm. At the end of August, consultations were held with all the relevant administrations in Paris. You choose dialogue, because there is also the threat of legal proceedings from the port administration. A technical working group is currently under way and you are trying to find a solution with the French. The United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, which guarantees at least a right of innocent passage, also contains a series of other provisions that will play a part in determining whether the installation of the wind farm at that site is in conformity with international law. New consultations were scheduled for 15 October. What views did your representatives take on that occasion and what solution is there already in the pipeline?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic035x.u24	Mr Ravyts, the problem of the offshore zone is of course not new. The zone was designated by France in the period 2105-2016. The proceedings were still pending for a while, but the concession was granted a few months ago. My predecessor Bart Tommelein and I followed the dossier very closely, because of course we knew that there might be problems. At that time, however, we did not know where the windmill park would be planted. Under the previous government, too, we were already in contact with the French competent ministers on this matter. We had formal and informal contact to let you know that we had some reservations about this and to find out how we could meet each other's wishes. So the contacts have been going on for a few years. It is only a few months since the concession was granted that this has accelerated. In France, the system also works differently from ours. Everything related to planting and environmental permits is just beginning to run in France and so are the procedures that allow neighbouring countries to provide advice on certain aspects of the wind farm, which we also did as soon as possible. At the end of August, we held consultations in Paris on the safeguard of shipping routes between Ostend and the United Kingdom, which was discussed extensively with the technical experts and representatives of the various competent ministers. It was agreed at that time that this is actually hopeful that it would be considered how to ensure smooth and safe shipping from Ostend to the United Kingdom in the future. A technical working group of Belgian and French experts from the maritime administrations, the owner and builder of the wind farm in question and the port of Ostend is looking into this. All this went through official channels, but in the meantime, of course, we did not sit still. We have taken a number of diplomatic and political steps which are aimed at creating confidence and finding a solution far away from the spotlight and polemics. At different levels, we've been taking demarches over the past few months. In the end, all this, including the discussions on 15 October, must lead to a solution that guarantees one or more shipping routes, and that must be the focus. The UN Convention on the Law of the Sea also plays a role, more specifically the right of innocent passage, which can certainly be made internationally enforceable. The current state of affairs, following the consultations on 15 October, is that unfortunately the solution we were looking for was not found. We had hoped for more flexibility on the part of France. We have recognised that further political consultation, perhaps at a higher level, is necessary in order to reach a solution, and that the best and legal dossier is prepared as some sort of stick behind the door, in case the consultation fails. If our Belgian interests are not safeguarded, a procedure can certainly be considered. For the time being, in the next few days, I would like to give every opportunity to the diplomatic dialogue to try to reach an agreement with our neighbour. I think that France, faced with the current situation, may well have to change its mind. If that fails, a harder way of proceeding will have to be found to safeguard our Belgian rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic035x.u25	Minister, I note that you are working closely with the port of Ostend, which does not surprise me from a political point of view. It's a work in progress. I regret that you do not come up with better or more concrete news after the consultation on 15 October, so that you do not completely rule out any legal procedure. I will certainly come back to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic035x.u26	Minister, there have been a few releases in the press of audiovisual officials about Proximus' new Pickx platform. According to some, Proximus would have a dangerous behavior for the Belgian audiovisual community. In Le Soir, RTL's boss claimed that Proximus would have, I quote: "The same strategy as the great international players to the detriment of the local players." Every day the company would do "illegal things that violate the intellectual property of Belgian channels." The company would favour international distributors over local distributors. This Pickx platform was launched in June by Proximus and offers a new decoder integrating the Android operating system. It aims to bring together all content within a single system, grouping content by gender and taking into account user consumption behaviour. The interface is available on TV as well as via smartphone, PC or tablet. In short, we could call this a kind of Netflix to Belgian. This platform would undermine the integrity of channels and promote deferred consumption, à la carte, and thus threaten certain advertising revenues. At the launch of the platform, the bosses of the country's four largest broadcasters – RTL, RTBF, VRT and DPG Media (VTM) – denounced "Proximus' abusive and unfair project in the total absence of agreement and authorization from its first content providers." In response, Proximus has put in place a Pickx ethical charter to clarify the company's ambitions. Minister, are there any real risks that the new Proximus interface will harm French- and Dutch-speaking audiovisual landscapes? What about channel integrity and advertising revenues? Has a constructive dialogue with stakeholders in the sector been established? What is the content of the aforementioned ethical charter? Is it binding on Proximus? Does Proximus undertake to negotiate the necessary authorizations with each broadcaster on an individual basis in the implementation of this platform?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic035x.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you know that since 2005, Proximus has been offering the Belgian public a full and varied audiovisual offer. In doing so, Proximus is an important partner in the Belgian audiovisual sector. You also know that this sector has changed a lot. We had the introduction of Netflix, Amazon, soon Disney, Apple. Many more will follow. We are therefore in a global world in which the Belgian consumer uses the possibilities offered to him. It is in this context that Proximus, through its modernised Pickx interface, wishes to offer Belgians a credible alternative to these global platforms, also offering an experience that meets the expectations of the public. It's important because without a public, it doesn't make sense. We must therefore also have an experience, a programming that seduces the public. I think that Proximus' offer is not a threat in the Belgian audiovisual landscape, but it is perhaps his best ally. In the charter you mentioned, we find Proximus' willingness and commitment to offer permanent visibility of Belgian local content. Moreover, this charter confirms the visibility reserved for Belgian content. In my view, the Pickx platform can stand out from other platforms that don't really offer Belgian content. In fact, they did not make this commitment and simply launched their offer without any consultation with anyone. Belgium is not the largest country in their overall vision. Here, the charter and the dialogue opened by Proximus demonstrate the existence of a strong link between the Belgian audiovisual sector and Proximus. In my view, it is also important not to introduce any additional regulations that would be binding on Proximus when it is fighting against global players who may not have to comply with this rule. I think that Proximus and the Pickx platform should be put on an equal footing with the other platforms and not put them at a disadvantage to their competitors. It's a key element. This very competitive global context gives Proximus the opportunity to position itself in this audiovisual landscape and that seems to me to be a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic035x.u28	Minister, thank you for your answers. The stakes lie at the level of all Belgian broadcasters. The establishment of a platform is indeed a necessity. This is being done more and more. You cited Netflix, Amazon, Apple, etc. Above all, good cooperation with all Belgian audiovisual players will have to be ensured. There is room for opportunities, but we must ensure that everyone respects the space of others. We will, of course, remain attentive to this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic035x.u29	Mrs. Depraetere is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic035x.u30	Mr President, Minister, Telenet announced that it will start to stop analogue radio and television in the course of 2020. The analogue radio signal via cable will be phased out from February 2020. The phase-out of the analogue television signal is foreseen by the end of 2020. However, almost fifteen years after the introduction of digital television, 9% is still looking only through the analogue signal, which would amount to around 180,000 households. It is estimated that as many people watch analogue television on a second or a third plane in their home. These viewers are now obliged to switch to digital television. Although stopping the analogue FM cable radio only produces a limited bandwidth saving of twenty megahertz, the analogue radio signal will even be stopped first. However, the analogue radio signal is even more in use than the analogue TV signal. The analogue signal will be replaced by a so-called compact digital signal that will be uncoded. However, many viewers and listeners using analogue signals do not have a receiver capable of processing digital signals. They are therefore now obliged to purchase a new TV or radio or to install an additional device to convert the digital signals to the analogue signals that their devices can receive. The rent of a digibox or similar device means additional costs which will be an additional obstacle especially for families with low financial breathing space. These are, of course, just the families who are still watching and listening analogly because of these extra costs. That is why I have the following questions. What measures are being taken by Telenet to protect weaker consumers? Will current tariffs be maintained for users who have to switch from analogue to digital? Is there any possibility of offering the converters, such as digiboxes and digitalorders, free of charge to people with radio or TV sets who cannot receive digital signals? Are there any other possibilities for people who cannot use the new compact signal? Is it really necessary to stop analogue signals and the limited bandwidth that they release, also in view of the imminent roll-out of the 5G network which will create additional digital capacity? The analogue radio signal that is still most in use requires little bandwidth and is nevertheless being phased out first.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic035x.u31	Mr President, Minister, the interruption of analogue television signals will cause many customers problems. It's not really about a small group, it's about 180,000 Telenet customers and a total of 360,000 people, who might use it on a second or a third plane. This means that this is a rather large group. Probably older people who are already having a hard time. How will Telenet compensate the analogue customers, especially those who do not use internet data, for this inconvenience? Will Telenet provide a free home service by technicians for affected customers, if they so wish? According to the UN, access to the Internet is a human right. Everyone should therefore have access to public broadcasting, both radio and television. Will the Walloon cable operator VOO follow Telenet in closing analog customers?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic035x.u32	Mr President, Telenet will inform the customers personally. This also seems logical to me when the analogue signal is switched off. Telenet research shows that 75% of television sets are compatible with the compact signal. Those who do not have a compatible device actually have only two choices: either buy a new device or get a digitalorder or digibox. If you switch from analogue customer to digital customer, you can get a discount at Telenet, either one gets it for free for one year or one gets a discount on a digibox or digicorder. Consumers who listen to the radio via the analogue cable are offered different possibilities. One can switch to digibox or digiorder. A free FM antenna can be requested from Telenet, which is delivered free of charge by post. You can purchase a DAB+ radio set, which allows you to listen to about 30 DAB+ radio stations. One can buy a smart speaker, with which one can listen via internet radio. So there are some options to process that switch properly. It is also important that the compact signal remains available for at least five years. This switch will effectively release bandwidth, but it will be filled in with new Telenet applications.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic035x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We naturally regret that the weaker consumers are being hit again. They are being chased again because they have to buy a new TV or radio set or rent a digital order. Costs that are not feasible for many. As a result, these people are once again pushed into social isolation. They keep hiding for all kinds of information. For example, they can no longer listen to or view news messages. We are therefore asking for consultation with Telenet to see whether nothing more can be done for these people, so that the changeover is easier, or to find a practical and financial alternative. News reports are a basic right. People have a right to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic035x.u34	As I said, this is a basic right, Minister. You gave a very technical explanation here. Many older people, and I think spontaneously of my mother-in-law, do not understand. They don't know what all that means. For a lot of people this is very difficult, and they will be effectively closed off from information. You say you want to give a discount, but you don't say which discount.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic035x.u35	Mrs. Vindevoghel, Telenet is a private company. A minister has nothing to say about that company's commercial strategy. I don't give a discount. Telenet offered it to people who make the switch, not me.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic035x.u36	Mr Minister, this is a basic right. A basic duty shall apply to each person. Everyone has the right to access radio and TV. That's a basic right. We want this right to be preserved. I also want to know the environmental impact of all those television sets that need to be removed because they can no longer be used. You did not answer my question whether the Walloon cable operator VOO is thinking in the same direction or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic035x.u37	I don't know about that. Until further notice, VOO is a separate entity that I have nothing to say about as a minister. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic035x.u38	I did not understand that, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic035x.u39	VOO is a private company. I am sure you know the troubles that VOO has been going through in the last few weeks. On further orders, VOO is still in the hands of certain shareholders. It's a private entity I have nothing to say about. So I cannot answer your question. As a minister, I have no control over what that company will do.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic035x.u40	Okay. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic035x.u41	Minister, the price of stamps is going to rise enormously. A prior stamp will cost 1.21 euros, or 21 percent more than today. The price of a prior stamp already increased by 15% to 1 euro each this year. Non-priority stamps will cost by an increase of 6.32 % 1.01 euros each, more than the price of a prior stamp today. Today, 80% of customers still opt for the non-priority stamp, perhaps because of the price. According to BIPT, next year, compared to 2017, small users will pay 100 to 150 million more for the services of bpost due to this substantial price increase. A price increase of 21 % for a prior stamp in 2020, after a price increase of 15 % for the same seal in 2019, makes a price increase of 36 % over two years. I'll come to my questions. The current inflation rate in Belgium is barely 1,05 %. A normal annual price increase in postal services should therefore be around 1%. How do you explain the high increase in prices of 36%? Do you not fear that this serious price increase will strengthen the falling market for letter mail? Will consumers and small self-employed people who rely on these services not seek alternatives even more quickly, out of bounds, as the price rises so much? Consumers and small self-employed people together will have to spend up to EUR 150 million more on these services. Will they receive a better service in return? A faster delivery? Are there any more mailboxes coming down the street? Bpost is going to generate 100 to 150 million more revenue due to this massive price increase. Will these additional resources be used to grant staff, e.g. postmen, a wage increase or will they be used to pay dividends?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic035x.u42	It's basic economics. The tariff adjustment is needed because of a massive drop in the number of people sending letters. I don't know when you sent a letter last time, but it's been a couple of years since I sent myself another letter. The decline continues, with more than 10% in the first semester of 2019. The postal service, which must operate according to the universal service, requires the commitment of many people, postmen, and material. Not only sorting centres and sorting machines are needed, but also trucks, vans and bicycles. All these things need to be bought and managed. These costs are incurred regardless of the number of shipments, because they are there. The fewer shipments, the higher the cost per shipment. In the event of a volume drop, the cost per shipment increases. The tariff increase must allow the universal postal service to be carried out without subsidies from the Belgian State. We may disagree on this, but I think that is a good thing in itself. The increase in tariffs has a very limited effect on people. The BIPT has calculated these cases and found that they represent an increase of 21 cents on the monthly household budget of a Belgian family, calculated on the average a family spends per year on postal services. As you can see, this is not a large amount of money. The price increase will have no effect on the volume, because we see that the sharp decrease is mainly due to the behaviour that you and I are showing. We no longer write letters; we send emails. We communicate much more by electronic means than in the past. This decline, for which digitalisation is also responsible, needs to be addressed. Large customers, such as utilities, who used to deliver a lot of items by post, also switch to a digital form of communication, resulting in fewer and fewer letters being sent. As far as pricing is concerned, it appears that bpost continues to position itself in the European average. We are even below the European average of EUR 1.24. The two extremes are Denmark, with 3.28 euros, and Spain, with 0.79 euros. The price increase is therefore the result of economic and social realities. Fewer and fewer people and companies are sending letters. The tariff increase is in accordance with the legal framework and was approved by the Belgian Institute for Postal Services and Telecommunications. The additional revenue generated will partly compensate for the sharp decrease in volume, in order to offset some of the fixed costs incurred.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic035x.u43	Bpost is not a loss-making company, it still makes some profit. I fear that this decision will lead to an evolution in which people will make even less use of the post offices. This evolution will accelerate and that is not a good thing: it is everyone's right to send letters by mail. Even the BIPT criticises the announced increase.
