ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u2	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 6 February 2019, I propose that you register on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: the appointment of the effective members of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prison Service, No. 3531/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 6 February 2019, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: the appointment of the effective members of the Central Prison Supervision Board, No. 3531/1. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u3	Prime Minister, the climate youth, the grandparents for the climate, eleven professors from no less than five universities, 11.11.11, Bond Beter Leefenvironment, bpost, Colruyt, De Lijn, KBC, Lidl, Proximus, Telenet, Triodos, Umicore, Unilever, VRT and WWF are all in favour of a national climate law. Among the doubters are CD&V and Open Vld, your government parties, Prime Minister. I therefore ask you today a very specific question for help. There is a clear political majority in Parliament to work on a national climate law, to anchor ambitions, to outline a clear framework for a lot of concrete measures to be taken later on for a major climate breakthrough. However, for such a climate law, we need a special majority. We need the support of all your government parties. You've already lost the N-VA. Perhaps the N-VA will not be convincing for such a climate law, but my group hopes to be able to count on the government of current affairs to be an ally to the climate law. So I can ask a lot of questions, Prime Minister, but I only ask one. Over the last few months, you have expressed your climate ambitions in the gallery a number of times. You are the youngest Prime Minister in the history of our country, but you must come up with a firm answer to all young people coming out. That is what we should expect from the youngest Prime Minister in the history of our country. So there is only one question I would like to ask you at this stage: are you, as Prime Minister, a fan of a climate law and do you want to convince, together with us, your current majority parties, Open Vld and CD&V, of the need for it? The answer doesn't have to be difficult, but it has to be clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u4	Prime Minister, a special climate law is being considered today, and I must say that it is also special. There's a seventh state reform at stake. The powers of the Länder in the field of environment and climate are being completely undermined and improved by this proposal, because we are now going to impose the federal objectives. I thought this government had declared a Community standstill, but that could have been your previous government. I don't know. That's what I'm asking you. By incorporating these objectives into a special law, we are on our way to a climate issue as in the Netherlands. The judges will determine climate policy and not parliaments. In addition, the climate objectives are to be registered in a special law. So we're gonna lock them down, we're gonna do that à la belge, like we're used to. It must be clear that we absolutely do not need new locks. Belgium is already locked enough. Let's stop doing that. This proposal will even take Lazarus out of his grave, because we are going to give the Senate new powers. I thought it was clear in the minds here that the Senate was a useless institution that could be phased out, but apparently not. What else is in that proposal? There will also be new institutions: an inter-ministerial climate conference, an inter-parliamentary climate committee, an inter-federal climate agency, a permanent independent committee of climate experts with a permanent secretariat, three regional independent climate committees. So we're going to set up seven new institutions. I want to be clear. Belgium already has too much government. It's gotta be less, not more. Your climate minister says she supports this proposal, Prime Minister. It would even be on her question that that text was drawn up. I don't hear your partner Open Vld react so positively. What is the position of this minority government, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u5	Prime Minister, I am surprised by the inconsistency of your minority government on the climate issue. At this end of the legislature, you have placed the climate at the top of your political agenda. "The fight against global warming is the battle of the century," you said. "Make more, faster, stronger," you said at the King's house. Your Minister of the Environment, Mrs Marghem, whom I do not see here, strongly demands the motherhood of the climate bill, drafted by a group of academic experts from the north and south of the country. This bill sets out ambitious climate goals, but also aims to break the deadlock between federal and federated entities. It's, she says, "his law." At the same time, two parties in your government, the CD&V and the Open Vld, clearly do not support it in any way. Where's the mistake? Is climate no longer your priority? Would Mrs Marghem not be the mother of this climate bill, contrary to what she claims? Did your minister, Ms. Marghem, act without government support and your support? It's complicated. It is up to you, as Prime Minister, to convince members of your minority government to support this climate law, since we need it to reach a two-thirds majority. This is the only way, Prime Minister, for you, to convince that what you have said – giving the climate a lot of importance – is not an electionist posture. This is not only about your credibility, but also about the credibility of the political world in the face of all those who are mobilizing, young and old, in a strong but also peaceful way, for the future. Yes or no will you support this climate law?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u6	Mr President, Prime Minister, "the power of the street" – this is not a title of the PTB newspaper – was a part of the title of the Soir edition signed by Béatrice Delvaux a few days ago, which wrote: "To those who still wonder what it's for to fight and go down the street, it is necessary to show how the climate, which was the great forgotten of many political statements, is now at the top of the agendas." Indeed, we see politicians and even the government, all of a sudden, trying to wake up on the issue of climate. We even see a series of bosses supporting the call "Sign for my Future". However, ladies and gentlemen, let us beware of greenwashing, that is to say, statements that we wash greener, but that would be contradicted by the facts. As far as I am concerned, I do not share our colleague Kristof Calvo's somewhat flattered enthusiasm for the bosses and their sudden awareness. Indeed, among these bosses, we find the boss of BNP Paribas Fortis, the fifth global player in fossil energy financing, the boss of Danone, the world's fourth largest plastic user. Luminus was awarded a score of 2 out of 20 by Greenpeace because this producer invests heavily in fossil fuels. Essent belongs to a consortium that is destroying a forest in Germany to expand coal mines. Solvay is a member of the European Plastics Lobby. I could go on for a long time because the list is long. It is the head of the FEB who raises the question of what is the big problem for the climate, what is the fundamental obstacle that prevents us from moving forward in terms of climate, and who answers these questions by saying that it is the indexation of wages. The indexation of wages therefore prevents us from moving forward in terms of climate. What's he saying again? He says we need even more eco-taxes for the population. As this will increase prices, wage indexation must be abolished. I do not believe that the young people who are still demonstrating today are fighting to reduce the wages of their parents. Prime Minister, will we continue to trust the bosses? I am thinking in particular of the Pact for strategic investments with management bosses. I am thinking of the Energy Working Group. Indeed, it is three members of the FEB, including its former president, who lead this working group. Will you finally follow the advice, remove the index and increase the eco-taxes? Do you have a concrete measure to propose, such as the one requested by young people, to make rail transport free of charge or at least to reduce the price of train tickets rather than to continue to increase it, as you are currently doing in a matter that is federal?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to remind Members who have spoken that the government is in the business of day-to-day business. He is in day-to-day business because the hand that was stretched a few weeks ago, in the month of December, was not seized. A number of parties could have seized it to give a government operational capacity until the last day of the legislature. It seems to me that some have short memories on this subject! This does have consequences for the way in which debates are conducted in government and Parliament. Secondly, Mr Calvo, I want to be clear. I am very proud that over the last four years, the current federal government has decided a lot of interfederal powers over the climate. It can be repeated that everything is disputed, but today, for example, the offshore is seen as an asset for our country at international level. So everyone can now recognise the important efforts that have been made in this area. Another example is the investment pact, both for mobility issues and in the field of energy, which has a very great ambition directly linked to the desire to grasp the issue of climate as an opportunity to stimulate economic development, innovation and research. We also need to prepare our infrastructure to make the country more socio-economically sound and meet our climate commitments. I come to a third example, the Burden Sharing. We are the first government to have managed to reach an agreement in this area. That too is a strong commitment. Specifically, I'm the leader of a federal minority government in ongoing business. As I announced a few days ago, I confirm that we have taken the decision to ask the Planning Bureau to examine the concrete effects of our objectives. Mr Calvo, I would like to tell you that, week after week, coming to this forum proclaiming ambitions is very good. We support you in proclaiming ambitions! But that is not enough! I would like to challenge those who cry out loud their ambitions to formulate, with us, as we have been doing for four years, concrete measures that have an effect, a financial impact for the people who work and for the beneficiaries. It is with seriousness that we must conduct this debate, precisely because our dignity vis-à-vis the thousands of young people who are demonstrating is not to come here to proclaim and repeat ambitions but to implement concrete measures. As far as I'm concerned, I'm very concrete. I met with the Climate Coalition on behalf of the government. They provided us with a first memorandum containing a few measures, some of which are relatively concrete and some of which are not concrete. I'll see them again before the end of the month. I do hope that, for each of the concrete measures, we can determine the climate and social impact. We need to analyse the impact for people, jobs and investments so that, knowingly and perfectly informed, this Parliament can make decisions. It is good for Parliament to take up a debate on the basis of work initiated by experts. I have obviously read the text. This text proclaims ambitions, which is good, and proposals for methods, which is good too, but that is not enough. We will also have to consider what concrete measures will be taken. Mr Calvo, I would like you to communicate to us next week the addition of concrete measures to achieve the stated objectives so that we can submit them to the Plan Office, the National Bank and independent experts, to see what this means for purchasing power, investment and jobs. You have a climate partner, yes, but a serious partner!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u8	Mr President, I would like to repeat three points. I hear several Members warning that we should not be working with all these big companies. Our group fundamentally disagrees with this. The debate should not be taken naive, but the climate is too important, it is a theme of the 21st century and we should not therefore be locked up in the fault lines of the last century. Anyone who wants to work for the climate in one way or another, including late converts, should be embraced to work together. The same mistake is made by Mr Wouters, who wants to turn it into a Community debate. According to her, there is a Dutch-speaking and French-speaking climate. Colleagues, look at what those young protesters are doing in the streets. Our four climate ministers do not manage to meet together, but the young people, Mr Walen, Mr Flemings and Mr Brusselsers, together organize events and joint actions in a few days' time. Prime Minister, now I am addressing you. What a lame little reaction! You have a very large support base. There is an incredible political majority to get to work, but instead you choose a game of majority and opposition. You say that Ecolo-Green has no concrete proposals. As no other, however, you should know that we do have concrete proposals. Ladies and gentlemen, a year ago we were invited by the Prime Minister in Rue de la Loi 16 because we, as the only group, took the trouble to put an investment plan on the table. We had coffee together, and we were gonna do that together.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u9	Mr Calvo, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u10	But what was the problem? A while later, Charles Michel was not convinced of the N-VA, CD&V and Open Vld.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u11	Mr Calvo, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u12	Now, Prime Minister, the problem is not our programme, but that our programme is not being implemented. There's a national climate law in front of it, and I'm counting on it...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u13	Who will pay for that, Mr Calvo?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u14	Mr Prime Minister, instead of looking for the difference, you need to look up the agreements. At least that is what a prime minister can be expected to do at this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u15	Mr Calvo, you have to stop.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u16	Mr President, I will conclude with a repeat of my invitation...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u17	No, it's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u18	(...) national climate law. I hope that we can count on the Prime Minister to convince the colleagues of Open Vld and CD&V in the coming period. That is not the only solution, but it is an important part of it. [[In the meantime, the President closed Mr Calvo's micro]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u19	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. If I understand correctly, you will not support the climate law, nor will you back Mrs Marghem's words. The question is who supports the story. Those are the French-speaking parties, we know that. I assumed MR would do the same. That's what I was told. On the Flemish side, sp.a would do the same. Now I ask my Flemish colleagues. I can't believe the Flemish interest will approve of that. Open Vld was already clear, CD&V was not quite clear and I hear from the N-VA colleagues that they will vote against, because they will simply refederalise the matter. That is no longer a Community stop, it is even a Community decline. You said yourself that you need a special majority. I'm afraid, Mr Calvo, you won't make it. You want a climate policy. Climate policy must be inventive and creative. Then we certainly should not lock that in a special law. That is the worst solution. What do we see now? The citizens are asking us to take action in the area of climate change. And what's the political answer when I look at the climate bill? We will do it at its Belgian level and organise another seven institutions. Who will pay for those seven institutions, Mr Calvo? The commoner. You know that, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u20	Prime Minister, day-to-day business is good! When it suits you, you move forward. When it doesn't work out for you, the pretext is easy: it's the fault of everyday business. Where I join you is when you say having strong ambitions is not enough. Who said having strong ambitions would fix everything? Of course, they must be put into practice. Measures are needed in a wide range of areas to achieve these objectives. Prime Minister, what prevents us from working, for example, on measures to support the isolation of public buildings and housing? No, it is not a regional competence if we are, for example, working on VAT to extend the mechanism that already exists partially. It can work. Let's go back to the law of your Minister Marghem. That's how she presents her, I'll remind you. It's "her law," she says. Prime Minister, if ambitious goals are not enough, it is important at some point that all policies be aligned with ambitious goals. Astonishing these objectives in a proposal for a special law and articulating the coherence of the different levels of power is just as important. If we do not do so, what we all risk here and elsewhere through all the governments in this country is not to succeed in the climate challenge and repeat the same mistakes in the next legislature. I tell you again, on behalf of all those who are mobilizing: move forward and support a positive dynamic within your government so that we can bring together a special majority here!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u21	Mr Calvo, yes, I think multinationals are a problem for the climate, unlike you who encourage them. Just see the FEB. Today, we are talking about reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 65% by 2030. The FEB, not so long ago, said that less than 35% was disproportionate. For the FEB, it was already too much while the scientists tell us about 65%. You trust them. I get it. Yet today, 300 multinationals are responsible for 40% of greenhouse gas emissions, but you prefer to make people pay eco-taxes. We know that. Prime Minister, you challenge us to come with concrete measures. Here are three concrete measures. Firstly, in connection with what I have just said, set binding standards for large companies rather than giving them the right to pollute. Secondly, to create a EUR 5 billion climate investment bank. Thirdly, dare free transport. I understand that it is difficult to hear, Mr Calvo, Prime Minister, but that is how it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u22	Dear Minister of Work, the best social face of the government, barely 0.8 % increase for the next two years, that is nothing more or nothing less than laughing at the workers of our country in their faces. Why is that, Minister? You're the culprit. I would very much like to hear you say that you want to give the social dialogue every opportunity, but by your law you have made this impossible. By your law, the employees are hardly getting a raise. If it weren't for your law, the raise would be twice as high. Minister, in our companies, employees and shareholders together create added value. Together they ensure economic growth. But what do we see today? The profits of the shareholders have increased enormously, twice as hard as the wages of the employees. And yet you believe that wages should not rise. The employees have already turned in due to the index jump and the invoice increases. However, you believe that workers' wages should not increase. One in eight people going to the food bank today has a job. And yet you believe that workers' wages should not increase. It is high time that employees were given a fair share of the economic profit. You met the social partners last week. I wonder what the outcome of your meeting is. I have read in the press your statement that an amendment to the wage bill is not on the agenda today. Your law is the problem, Minister. There is, however, an amendment to the law on the agenda. The government is in current affairs and I do not need to repeat that it is now up to Parliament. Our bill to solve the problem was introduced yesterday in committee. I have two questions for you. Firstly, what is the outcome of the consultation with the social partners? What did you promise them to get out? Secondly, if you really want a solution, if you really want to ensure that the workers get a fair share, you should, as the social face of the government, support our bill that aims to increase wage increases.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u23	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister of Employment, workers can no longer do so. Next week, a general strike is planned and what are you doing? You remain deaf to the legitimate demands of the workers while you are responsible for the current situation. In four years, you have operated a real social holding-up by attacking pensions, social protection of workers, index jump – you have punctured 12.5 billion in the workers' pocket to give them to the bosses. That wasn't enough. You have amended the law to impose a 0.8% wage margin: crumbs. With this law, you prevent the social partners from raising workers' wages. With your policy, the worker cannot earn more. On the other hand, his boss can continue to grow. The worker cannot earn more; on the other hand, companies like Caterpillar and ING can continue to lay off massively to give more dividends to their shareholders. There's nothing against collective redundancies. I won't insist. It makes the Prime Minister angry. Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, make sense of social dialogue! Let the social partners really negotiate wage increases! Ministers, will you finally listen to the workers and support our bills to allow for real wage increases?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u24	Mr President, Prime Minister, we know that the social partners have until the end of this month to agree. The margin proposed by the Central Economic Council is 0.8%. This margin is in addition to the foreseeable indexation of 3.8%. So we're talking about a likely 4.6% increase. This margin was calculated on the basis of the 1996 law, an important law, thought at a time when the wage gap had to be bridged in relation to neighbouring countries. This law was set up by a Minister of Economy who was certainly very competent to do so, since it was a law of Elio Di Rupo which, in 2013-2014, reduced the negotiating margin to zero, also reducing the welfare envelope by 60%. This assessment of the Central Economic Council is based on the 1996 provision. It is true that in 2016 a change made it possible to close the wage gap until 1996. We know that in 1996 – and this is still the case – there was still a 12% differential compared to neighbouring countries. This way of containing the negotiations is based on a law proposed by our colleague Di Rupo at the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u25	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u26	Please, Mr. Laaouej, I have no lesson to learn from you in this field! The government's work has not only increased low wages – since, when we talk about 0.8% or 1.5%, we are talking about four or five euros a month – but also to deposit, thanks to the tax shift, almost 150 euros net per month in the pockets of workers. Our socialist colleagues and their armed arms – the FGTB – demand 3% in the negotiations between the social partners, which they obviously undermine. This is not your case, Prime Minister, as you have taken the initiative to meet with them. So here are my questions. Prime Minister, Minister, what is the status of these discussions? Are you optimistic about the possibility of an agreement? Thank you in advance for your answers – as well as you, Mr. Laaouej.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u27	Mr President, last week we discussed the suspension of negotiations on a new IPA. Mrs Kitir, first of all I would like to nuance your statements and statements to the effect that last time the standard of wages was set with rules that are now enshrined in the law. At that time, however, a wage agreement was reached. Today we have a wage margin of 0.8%, and it is not clear that this is an agreement. I understand the concerns of both sides: companies that want to remain competitive and workers who see the economy growing and flourishing. Moreover, they also see that last year companies paid four times more profit premiums outside the wage bill and that today there are 84 extra-legal benefits that are often outside the wage bill and which are used to also give employees a wage premium. I understand that this leads to a new discussion on gross and net, again looking for a balance. This is not an easy balance, because when low gross wages get something net, they do not get social rights, not even in the area of retirement. That is a very difficult balance, I am aware of that. Above all, what we should not do now is pour oil on the fire like this week people from the N-VA and the employers who want to abolish the index. That is not the case today or tomorrow. That is what the 1996 amended wage bill says, and it does not affect that: it must continue to guarantee purchasing power, even in the future. Last week we called for social dialogue to be given opportunities. This government has made efforts to receive partners bilaterally, employers and employees. Mr Prime Minister, do you see any possibility of correcting the social dialogue? What can the government do in current cases if it does not succeed in reaching a negotiated agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u28	Prime Minister, business profits have never been as high as they are today: EUR 100 billion! People can't make it through to their end of the month. They pay more and more for their energy and for a lot of consumer products. And what do you offer them? A wage increase in the next two years of 0.8%! Peanuts! Will you dare say in the markets that you are proposing 0.8% increase in two years? It's really a scandal. You, the Liberals, stand up for freedom in the open: freedom must be free from the market; we must intervene! The state cannot intervene in any market-related matter except in one area, where any boss is placed at your attention, that is the pay standard. If a boss wants to give 0.9%, it's forbidden by law! That's the classic liberal vision. It's easy! Today, you are being asked why we are not giving the freedom to negotiate real wage increases. Of course, the balance of power, the true freedoms! We're obviously talking about the index. You have to laugh. The decline in purchasing power through inflation, we know! It has been nearly fifty years since the world of work solved this problem: if inflation increases, it does not pose a problem because the index solves the problem. Now let's talk about the real sharing of the cake and not about cheating on inflation. It has been shown that the real share of the cake in the last four years is 2% of GDP which has passed from wages to profits of companies: 9 billion euros; 190 euros per worker stolen to increase profits of companies. It's a real robbery. The question here is how to raise those wages again, which are not the problem but the solution? Ladies and gentlemen, the aim is to abolish this law, which systematically organises competition between French, Belgian, German and Dutch wages. What is the problem, Mr Peeters? You're saying there should be no exaggeration with raises. What does Mr Macron say? Wages in France should not increase too much, because in Belgium they should not. What is being said in the Netherlands? Same thing. You are organizing competition between the four surrounding countries to reduce wages. I say to you: who lowers wages reduces consumption and continues to plunge us into the economic crisis in which all of Europe is located. I feel a lot of nervousness on some benches. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we fight not only against the new amendment of the 1996 law but also to take advantage of the balance of forces, today, to abolish this law passed in 1996 and restore genuine freedom to negotiate wages.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I therefore note that the PTB proposes the abolition of automatic wage indexation. It is this position that was expressed, a moment ago, in the rostrum. But let's be serious! As far as I am concerned, I do not intend to put oil on the fire of an extremely important negotiation. An interprofessional agreement (IPA) is very important. We have tried everything since the first day of this coalition to give maximum opportunities to an IPA. This has been achieved in recent years, and this is positive for the stability and strengthening of our economy. Then I would like to make a few important points. Firstly, the aim is to reach an agreement on the distribution of wealth. It is then about 100 percent of the welfare envelope, over 300 million euros available in 2019 and over 700 million euros in 2020. That's very important. We hope that an agreement on this will be possible. Secondly, according to experts, the wage margin and the application of the 1996 amended legislation represent a wage margin of 0.8 % on top of the automatic indexation of 3.8 %. This means that we remain one of the European countries – there are no longer many – that guarantee automatic wage indexation. Thank you for the great lessons on the subject! Purchasing power is an essential subject. A further element is the fact that the tax shift, over a four-year period for a person with a gross wage of EUR 2 000 per month, has generated an additional EUR 168. I would remind you that an additional 168 euros have been granted thanks to the tax shift. So we returned money and purchasing power to households. If we wanted to allocate the same amount in net through a sharp increase in wages, we should have increased them monthly by 615 euros for someone who earns 2,000 euros. This is the whole debate about the balance between gross and net wages. Of course, the law is not a problem in the light of that exercise. There are many other options besides the possibility of a wage margin of 0.8 % on top of the 3.8 % indexation. For example, there are also meal cheques and allowances related to mobility. There is also the possibility of profit participation. We have taken steps to encourage companies, where they can, to give the ability to participate for the benefit of companies. We are very involved with the ministers concerned. Mrs. Maggie De Block, Mr. Kris Peeters and I met the employer's bench and the union bench. We listened carefully to what points of convergence were possible and what difficulties remained. We reiterated the call for accountability. We were told that everyone wanted, even if it was difficult, to continue to give negotiation opportunities. At our instigation, the Chairman of the Group of Ten will, in the coming days, resume contact with its various members in order to give concrete impetus to this negotiation. He will report to us so that we can see how the government can actively stimulate this negotiation. Finally, Mr Daerden, thank you for your advice. Thank you, Mr Daerden, for the good advice you give us in connection with economic development and the stimulation of investment! In 2013 and 2014, with a Socialist Prime Minister, a Socialist Employment Minister and a Socialist Social Affairs Minister, the wage standard was 0% and the welfare envelope was -400 million euros! Thank you again for your good advice!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u30	There were also questions for the Minister of Work, which I am now giving the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I want to conduct the debate correctly. At 2:42 p.m., the Planning Bureau published new figures. According to these figures, the real disposable income of households will increase by 2.1 % in 2019, which is higher than in 2018. The Planning Bureau predicts an increase of 44 000 jobs in 2019 as well as a decrease in the number of unemployed by 22 000, bringing the unemployment rate in Belgium to 5.5 %. I hope that everyone will look at these figures again after the plenary session. Secondly, I am very sad that parties who are always committed to consultation now declare that they prefer a change to the law rather than encouraging consultation and doing everything they can to ensure that the social partners reach an agreement. Thank you for that. Last week we received both employers and employees in order to encourage them to reach an agreement. Those who are now calling for a change to the law hypothesize the social dialogue, which is a very serious danger. I am very surprised at the fact that we are here arguing for the abolition of the 1996 law. It calls for free negotiations, the weak sectors and small and medium-sized enterprises being affected. That is what we want to prevent. We are trying to convince both sides that there is still room for agreement. I therefore ask Parliament not to intervene and not to plead for a change to the law. An amendment to the law is less important than reaching an agreement on the margin, which I can still do. To those who are so populist by referring, among other things, to low wages, I can tell you that we will consider the problem of minimum wages and end-of-life arrangements. Consult the Planning Bureau. The numbers are here. The disposable income of families increased in 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u32	If things get a little difficult and you don't make it, then you refer to the past or say things that haven't been said at all. I will speak for myself, I will not talk about others. I have never said that social dialogue is not important, but, Minister, during your term of office so many agreements were concluded by the social partners. You came here to explain that there was still a point and a comma to be added. It wasn't important then. It is your law, Minister, that has mortgaged the social dialogue. You forget to mention that, because the tax shift or tax cuts were reductions, weren't they? It makes us less competitive with other countries, but that should not count. Since we do not allow this to be taken into account, the wages of our workers must not increase. That's the truth. You say to the social partners: we have encouraged you, go on, we know it is difficult and not fair. Mr Vercamer has come here to tell us that stocks are rising and that he understands that profits are being made and that the workers are not getting anything. That's what I call hypocrite! If you really wanted it, you would have taken care of it. The 1996 Wage Act, to which you refer and which was amended in 2017, has mortgaged the increase in employees' wages. I've listened to you very carefully. You want us not to boycott the social dialogue. Well, we're waiting. Our proposal remains in place. If it doesn't work out, I hope you'll really show your social face, because now it sucks.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u33	Michel, these are still direct attacks on the PS, as every week! Definitely, you're in the country! We expected more from you. Ministers, yes, an IPA (interprofessional agreement) is fundamental, but not in a two-to-one game of dupes. Your government behaved unfairly with the workers. Even if you are a minority, you continue to want to weaken their purchasing power. I'll end up thinking it's obsessive about you! Our proposal to reduce VAT on electricity to 6%? You reject her. Our proposal to ensure the welfare envelope? You reject her. Ministers, workers deserve real wage increases. I'm not talking about 0.8%, I'm talking about 3%. Finally, do you support our proposals to restore genuine social dialogue and to restore purchasing power? Our workers, who are the champions of productivity, deserve more than crumbs.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u34	Bravo!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u35	Prime Minister, in 2016, the social partners anticipated the law that was passed the following year. They agreed on the evolution of the wage margin for 2017 and 2018. In 2016, they endorsed the amendment to the 1996 Act. At the time, no demonstrations were seen; no one protested in the streets. Today, because we are approaching the elections, the FGTB, first, and the PS, then, propose – tomorrow, we shave for free! – 3% wage increase, while a law sets the framework for it. All the policy that is being pursued, especially to increase the net of workers, allows for the provision of jobs to people who are not provided with them. That's the government's vision! It has shown our full ability to restart the country's economy. We must therefore continue to do so. I heard, Prime Minister, that you, like us, want the social agreement to take shape. That is why we will continue to support this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u36	Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for the answers. I say to Mrs Kitir that she did not listen very carefully. I have said that we are increasingly setting wage increases outside the wage bill. It calls for a good balance to be struck between what can be increased gross and what can be increased net within a wage margin of 0.8 %. I understand her concern. The more wages are increased net, the weaker the lowest wages are. After all, we do not build up social rights by increasing net wages. That's what I said. It is difficult to strike a balance between gross wage increases and net wage increases with a wage margin of 0.8 %. It has rightly been said here that with a negotiated margin of 0.8% on top of the blighting increases and indexation, we are nevertheless achieving purchasing power growth. Now it is important that both employees and employers show reasonableness for the sake of reaching an agreement. Then good agreements can also be reached on other issues such as welfare development, end-of-life schemes and pensions. I said yesterday in committee that political interventions are now not done in the social dialogue. We do not do that while the negotiations are ongoing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u37	How can two ministers, both working on social affairs, say such big mistakes in Parliament? The first mistake. "The index increases purchasing power!" That's not true, minister. The index guarantees only a stabilisation of purchasing power in relation to the increase in the prices of life. If we raise wages by 3% and the housewife's basket increases by 3%, you don't earn anything in purchasing power! First lie! Second lie: the repeal of the 1996 Act would be equivalent to the repeal of the index. The index existed before 1966, ladies and gentlemen! Don't you know your social history? Since World War II, the index has existed. Here, we don't know anything about social history! Third lie: freedom to negotiate would mean more interprofessional pay. Don't you hear? It is clear that it is a freedom to negotiate an interprofessional wage that is requested. It's really amazing! It's a beautiful tradition in Belgium. Fourth mistake. You really don't know anything about social security! Maybe there's something to listen to? Can CD&V maybe listen? Did you hear Marc Leemans? What's he asking? He asked for the 1996 law to be amended. CD&V should listen a little bit.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u38	May I ask you to conclude?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u39	I come to my fourth point. "Available income is rising." According to the Planning Bureau, income from capital is also included in the available income. The figures of the International Labour Organization (ILO) refer only to wages and not to income from capital. The ILO is very clear: wages fall by 0.8%. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, the general strike of 13 February will be a great success.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u40	Mr Hedebouw, your speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u41	There are now a number of questions that will be answered by Minister Peeters, albeit four times on behalf of his colleague De Crem and once on behalf of Minister Geens.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u42	Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in order to have a close-up of the critical infrastructure of our nuclear power plants, it is enough to go on Google Maps. Take a look. I made a close-up of our Tihange nuclear site, which we can find on Google Maps. It clearly shows the critical installations, the layout of the buildings, the reactors, the accesses by car and by foot and the various parking spaces. We can even go even closer than this. That's absolutely amazing! It's not only incredible, but it's obviously contrary to any basic consideration of security. Despite a formal request from the nuclear monitoring body and the Minister of the Interior, your colleague Mr. From Crem, we learn this morning that Google, the American company, refuses to blur satellite images of Belgian nuclear power plants. The AFCN sees it as a real security risk and demands that these images be blurred. It's possible, because our French neighbours do. A law was passed in the French National Assembly to force Google's hand to blur these images. There is therefore no reason why we should not be able to do so in Belgium as well. Minister, my questions will be very simple. When are you going to take or support a legislative initiative to force Google to blur satellite images of our nuclear power plants? Furthermore, any other public or private body should be prohibited from giving free access to such images. We learn today that this is the case for the website www.geopunt.be which depends on the Flemish administration and which also presents, online, images of our nuclear power plants. When will we stop letting these satellite photos be published on the websites? What are we waiting for to react, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u43	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in October 2017, Greenpeace sent the Minister of the Interior and the Federal Nuclear Control Agency a report on the safety of French and Belgian nuclear sites. Members of the Sub-Committee on Nuclear Safety had the opportunity to discover this report. It must be admitted that the report was very worrying. There was a catalogue of scenarios and possibilities for terrorist attacks on French and Belgian nuclear sites. All of these plausible scenarios were based solely on publicly available data. Among these data are, of course, aerial photographs of our nuclear power plants, which can be found on a site like Google Earth. As my colleague has alluded to, if you are now consulting Google Earth, you will see in detail the facilities of Doel and Tihange. On the other hand, you will find that Kleine-Brogel Airport is blurred, as well as the French nuclear power plant in Chooz. The Minister of the Interior has asked Google officials to blur images of our nuclear power plants. We learned this morning in the press that he said that he would only do so if he was forced to do so by law. Minister, I have very good news for you. I tabled a bill to that effect with my Socialist colleagues last November. I am a little disappointed that my colleague Ecolo did not see her. So you have the opportunity to support her. The work is done: there is only one thing to vote for. Minister, will your government take an initiative to force Google to blur images of our nuclear power plants? Will you officially support my bill?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u44	We learned that Google refused to blur its images, images that are accessible to everyone on the internet and of which you have just produced an example. The answer of Google's spokesman is to me, so incredible. Even as the government and the Federal Agency meet Google to protect our nuclear sites and prevent the dissemination of images, the spokesman says that there is no legal basis in Belgium to force Google to jam these images. This statement is irresponsible. Should Google be reminded that the Federal Nuclear Control Agency has concluded that the dissemination of accurate images creates a risk in the event of a terrorist attack? The French commission of inquiry on nuclear safety has indicated that the officials of Google France have admitted the need to conceal the too precise contours of this type of installation and, I quote, "have begun to do so". Would Google Belgium be different from Google France? Or does Google Belgium not care about the safety of Belgians? Deputy Prime Minister, could you give me details of the contacts that have been made between the government and the Federal Agency, on the one hand, and Google, on the other? What follow-up do you intend to give to this intolerable position? Finally, Defence has managed to get a blurring of our military sites. What steps have been taken to do this? Why can't they be transposed into the Tihange and Doel sites?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour and pleasure of replacing my colleagues Pieter De Crem and Koen Geens. They are both apologized for a meeting of the Council of the European Union. I have received a reply from my colleague Pieter De Crem concerning all the questions you have asked. The Federal Nuclear Control Agency maintains its position that images of Belgian nuclear sites should be blurred. The Agency has taken this position in its capacity as the authority responsible for ensuring the safety of nuclear sites. The Agency wishes to build first on the measures taken by the Defence to blur images of military sites, an action initiated at the time by Minister De Crem. If the same approach does not work for nuclear sites, the Agency will continue to explore alternative ways to find a solution. Colleagues, on October 18, 2018, the Agency had already sent a letter to Google asking for the falsification of nuclear sites. It was only this morning – you also received the message – that the Agency was contacted by Google Belgium SA regarding the blurring of these nuclear sites in Google Maps, Google Street View and Google Earth services. The company stated that Google Belgium SA does not own and manage Google Maps, Google Street View and Google Earth services. It indicated that this service is managed and provided by Google Ireland Limited. The latter offers the possibility to request this blurring of images in Google Maps, Google Street View and Google Earth. Indeed, Google buys satellite images from Swiss Flight Services SA. Google Belgium SA also asked the Agency to contact this Swiss company immediately to blur images of nuclear sites. The Agency will take action following this response from Google Belgium SA and of course hopes that Google Ireland Limited will react quickly and correctly in order to arrive at a solution. If this is not the case, the minister will look into all the other options being explored today.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u46	Minister, your answer is somewhat vague – that's the least we can say! You're talking about sending letters, asking... you're saying the Agency has taken initiatives. It is now necessary to legislate and impose our rules on companies regardless of their location (Belgium, Ireland), whether it is a Swiss or an American company. Companies must respect the rules of each country. The French managed to enforce their rules. Satellite images of our nuclear power plants cannot be freely available. Let's do it! There are texts. We will support them. Let's legislate next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u47	Mr Minister, the issue of nuclear safety is a very sensitive area. What do we see? We wrote to Google in mid-October 2018. We receive answers today, in February, four months later. We have to ask the Swiss! This is not serious! We must therefore take a strong initiative and legislate, which is why I ask you once again to support the text I have tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u48	Minister, I do not know if we need to legislate at this stage, but I know that we cannot allow ourselves to dictate the contours of our national security policy by private or commercial interests, whether national or international. I look forward to the determination of the competent ministers to find a solution as soon as possible. I am confident that the government will do this because it has been several years - it goes back to 2014, to be precise - that this government has made IT security one of its priorities. In fact, this priority is recognized since, very recently, we have been ranked by ENISA, a world leader, 13th out of over 60 countries in the area of IT security. That, in my view, is an encouragement. This is certainly a guarantee of success in the face of this new obstacle.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u49	Mr President, Minister, I would like to talk to you, as Deputy Minister De Crem, about route checks. Trajectory checks are in the interests of road safety. The route control locations are not randomly selected, but are selected on the basis of objective accident figures. The regions are very committed to road safety, especially the Flemish Region is doing its utmost. Now, however, I have received a few messages that are a little troubling for me. For example, with regard to certain controls which could become operational, in this case in the Diksmuide region, local entities would say that they will not participate in the processing of those fines. The arguments put forward are that there should be additional staff or that this will result in less blue on the street. I can understand everyone's point of view, but I do not think there is any need for that concern, Minister. There is, after all, a system whereby local authorities and zones can use the regional processing centres in the federal police. Could you give me a description of the system, saying that this is correct and that these local authorities should certainly not be worried?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am still replacing Mr De Crem who gave me the next answer. Mr Degroote, I thought this had already been discussed this morning, but you are not asking any questions at this time. The Roads and Traffic Agency is the responsibility of Minister Weyts in the Flemish Government, you know that. I therefore propose that your colleagues ask a number of questions to the Minister responsible in the Flemish Parliament. Justice and police, which are federal powers, have taken many initiatives through the Crossborder project to optimise the digital processing of the findings. This project ensures a smoother collection of traffic fines. The installation of cameras for route checks must always be accompanied by the actual processing of the infringements. My colleague, Minister None, has indeed done everything possible to process the fines automatically. That has been an immense project. It is not true that the fines are fully automated. Someone must, of course, still introduce the fines. After that, the process is automatic. A local police area can always register at the regional processing centre of the federal police for the processing of the fines on route checks. This brings costs to the area, but the police also get money from the road safety fund by collecting the fines, and the costs are lower than if they were done in their own right. A legislative amendment by Mr Geens also allows the civilian staff to be used to deal with this type of fine. Finally, consultation between the federal, Flemish and local levels is always appropriate to use route controls as effectively and efficiently as possible to see, as you rightly say, the number of road accidents and casualties on our roads falling further.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u51	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. We are indeed on the same side, road safety for everything. I welcome your answer. You pointed out that the regional processing centres could be used. That's very important. So the local authorities certainly don't have to worry about that. That's a first reassurance. Where, in my view, the local authorities have a point, it is with regard to the financial return. Since the sixth state reform, the regions have not been given the resources they were promised. There is still work to be done on this. As far as local determinations are concerned, there is still too much progress on keys rather than on real figures. We need to grow to the latter. There is still a lot of work to be done for this, because there the federal administration sometimes continues to fail. I understand that this will be a work for a subsequent government agreement, in which N-VA will certainly cooperate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u52	Mr President, Minister, in the scandalous division of the judicial district of Brussels-Halle-Vilvoorde, the number of judges of the Dutch-speaking company court in Brussels was set at 11. Mr Verherstraeten will no doubt remember those discussions and, above all, our extensive protest against them. "Too little!', That's when we suggested it. An objective workload measurement carried out by KPMG in 2013 also established that there should be 16 judges. Due to all kinds of circumstances there are 7 magistrates today and from next month only 6 magistrates will be available. This is only a third of what that audit considered necessary. Moreover, since the measurement of the workload, this court has been given several exclusive powers, making the workload even more difficult. This week, the chairman of that court, Mrs Gaby Van Den Bossche, pulled the emergency brake. In a press release, she stated that she has exhausted all possible legal means to cope with this workload, but that this is not enough to manage the influx of cases. It is obliged to take drastic measures, with ordinary cases being delayed for at least two years. It is, however, a very alarming observation that there is simply no time for ordinary things. It has decided that there is only room for short-term proceedings, opening chamber, collective claims and all that has to do with firms in difficulty. All other issues can be argued at the earliest in 2021. Minister, there is a serious shortage of staff. That is not just the case in this court, by the way. We were also able to read this week that the assistant courts should be assisted by retired magistrates. This acute shortage of staff is making the operation of that court completely hypothetical. A normal course of justice, within acceptable time limits, has become completely impossible. Hence my questions. Why did the Minister of Justice let it get this far? What measures will he take to ensure that this court can return to some normal functioning as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u53	Mr Pas, Minister None has given me an answer to your question. I will try to give it to you as best I can. As regards the framework of the Dutch-speaking business court of Brussels, it should be clarified that the workload measurement carried out by KPMG in 2013 in the context of the reform of the judicial district of Brussels-Halle-Vilvoorde set the number of magistrates necessary for this court on 11 and not on 16 as is sometimes suggested. The number of 11 is enshrined in the law in 2014. The Dutch company court of Brussels currently has 10 appointed magistrates or 90% of the framework. Two weeks ago, a judge of this court was appointed to the court of appeal. She will leave the court at the time of her oath before the court. A second magistrate has recently been proposed by the Supreme Court of Justice for an appointment elsewhere. Actually, he is still working in the court in question. As a result, the court will soon fall temporarily back to 8 appointed magistrates on a framework of 11. The Minister adds that no vacancies can be published to replace long-term patients. It is the intention of the Minister of Justice to bring this figure back quickly. A new job vacancy plan will be published at the end of February. This is the subject of an earlier consultation with the College of Courts and Courts. My colleague from the Justice Department will argue that at least two places in the company court should be included in the job vacancy plan. I hope you are fully informed about this. The problem is being addressed by my colleague from the Justice Department.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u54	I would like to thank the Deputy Minister and perhaps soon Deputy Mayor of Puurs for his reply. The problem has been dragging on for a long time. As regards the measurement of workload, I have just mentioned that the workload has only increased. Long-term absences from illness cannot be predicted, but retirements, for example. The reality is that the workload has not been eliminated for years. I do not believe that there is any structural intervention in this respect. That situation is terrifying and not normal. We have a Minister of Justice who wants to set up an English-speaking court before the elections in Brussels in order to have cases dealt with more quickly, while the small self-employed person has to wait years for treatment for his case. That's hallucinating. I'll give you another quote from attorney Hugo Lamon, spokesperson of the Order of Flemish Bar. He said: "A rule of law presupposes not only access to independent government judges, but also treatment within a short period of time. This is no longer guaranteed in Brussels. For the capital, who likes to position himself as a centre of Europe with the associated key role in the economy, this is alarming. To put matters on hold, simply because of insufficient magistrates, that is rather something for a banana republic." It is, Mr President, because an essential duty of government, namely to protect those who seek justice, is not being complied with.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u55	Minister, self-employed people often take risks and work hard. You know that, as Minister of Self-Employees. You are also taking many measures to improve their social status and their position. You have shown this in recent months and in the past year. In December 2018, we adopted my resolution in this Chamber with which I wanted to focus on more prevention for the self-employed. It is not intended that they should continue to work until they fall down and become disabled and receive a benefit. It is good that benefits are provided. It is good that they exist, but it is also absolutely necessary to focus on prevention and support while they are fully shaping their case and to give them a little oxygen while they are developing their business. A health budget and coaching of self-employed persons may also be used during the journey, so that they do not have to become disabled. Well-being is better than healing once you are sick or unable to work. That is why I also call for the resolution that we have adopted here on a wide scale and which focuses on prevention and reintegration pathways for self-employed people. As you know, there are already re-integration routes for workers, such as for disabled people who are experiencing difficulties in returning from their incapacity for work. For the self-employed, they are also needed and, in fact, they are a priority. I hear that there are plenty of actions being taken at the moment and that questions are being asked to completely abolish the waiting period for disability benefits for self-employed persons. So there would be no waiting time when one becomes ill. I am asking questions about the budget, but also about what you have done in the meantime to follow up on my resolution on prevention and a health budget. What steps have you taken to see if we can introduce a health budget for the self-employed? What's that supposed to look like? What can you do to prevent and support the self-employed during the journey and not after the disability? Is sufficient funding provided to completely abolish the period of care for self-employed workers and also to focus on reintegration pathways and a form of prevention?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u56	Mrs Smaers, as you know, thanks to this government's policy, an additional EUR 508 million will be invested every year in the self-employed. I also supported your resolution, which is a good resolution. However, the government in current cases is limited in its exercise space. In reply to your question, I would like to point out a number of elements. On the initiative of the Liberal Minister, the career period has been reduced from three months to fourteen days since 1 January 2018. The Minister for Social Affairs and myself have also asked the General Management Committee for the Social Status of the Self-employed to draw up a report which will concern, on the one hand, the current mechanisms to assist sick self-employed people in reintegration and, on the other, the rules on the prevention of burn-out. I will await the advice of the ABC because I am very attached to the social dialogue. I do indeed support the proposals on the career period that several political groups in the Chamber are supporting. Moreover, I have launched a call for a reform in this sense to be completed during the current legislature. I had the cost of this calculated and this would cost EUR 11 million. I aim to bring the self-employed who are affected by illness into line with all other categories.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u57	Mr President, I would like to call on you to continue to work on prevention and the health budget in many other cases during the current period. We must not only patch the wounds of the self-employed, but we must also support them so that, hopefully, many wounds can be avoided. We must therefore also tackle the preventive aspect of the social status of the self-employed. Then we are well on our way to strengthening their social status.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u58	The answer to Mrs Goffinet's question, initially addressed to the Minister for Mobility, will be given by the Minister for Middle Classes, Self-Employed, SMEs, Agriculture and Social Integration, responsible for the Greater Cities.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u59	Mr Minister, the problem of recruiting drivers at SNCB is well known and the increase in language requirements has aggravated this problem, to the point that the newspaper La Libre has just denounced a cheating system organised during the SNCB language examinations. The questions and answers would be forwarded by the examiners to the staff who would only have to study the answer to these questions in order to pass the certification test offering the B1 level in the other language of the country. Minister, do you confirm this information? If so, who is responsible? Are examiners so under pressure that, in order to ensure a driver's success rate, they provide them with pre-examination information? Will an investigation be conducted in this regard? Is this practice also spreading to the north of the country for French tests? This linguistic requirement is linked to the transposition of a European law on 1 January 2016. Previously, the requested level was a level 3 of a scale defined by the European Union. Now it's the B1. What is the fundamental difference between these two levels? Is the level B1 requirement for this driver's position an additional requirement? Have any incidents occurred for linguistic reasons between drivers and signallers? Is that why this level is being requested? In any case, the level of training required by the SNCB raises questions as it turns out that only three days of training are provided for language learning. That seems very little to me. However, SNCB had three years to train its former drivers. Mr Minister, I would like to know whether everyone is in the same position as regards these training courses.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u60	Thank you, Mrs Goffinet, for your important question and you know that I am very sensitive to security issues. The problem of language examinations is part of the annual audits carried out by the Railway Safety and Interoperability Service (SSICF) at the SNCB train driver training centre. Over the past two years, the mechanism of these reviews has been strengthened. In an audit report dated December 1, 2017, the FCIMS noted that the guidelines for the organisation of language examinations should be formalized and adapted. SNCB has put this recommendation into practice. It implemented it as revealed in the audit of 20 November 2018. As a result, the questions are now asked in an interview which is conducted entirely and exclusively in the second language and which is no longer limited to specific questions. The audit report of 27 November 2018, the latest, asks SNCB to formalise in the criteria for the admissibility of candidates the eliminatory nature of the answers which could pose a risk to safety, by analogy with the other parts of the driver's examination, where certain errors lead automatically to a failure. You have to know that. SNCB will have to incorporate this recommendation. I have asked the CFISS to remain very vigilant with regard to the follow-up of measures concerning language examinations. If incidents are reported and are due to language gaps, they are rare: there were only two in 2018 and only one in 2019. The SSICF is then immediately involved in the procedure for monitoring ad hoc measures in relation to the personnel concerned. You took back a press article and I thank you for using the conditional. Because it is clear that a number of the evidence is inconsistent with reality. It will also be of interest to you to know that in these supervisory activities, the CFISS also controls the recordings of communications between drivers and signallers. Where deficiencies are found, they shall be communicated to the undertaking which must then take all measures to remedy them, including penalties. It should also be noted that since the creation of SSICF in 2007, there has been no recommendation by the railway accident and incident investigation agency to address problems related to drivers' knowledge of the language.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u61	Minister, thank you for this information. I mean, the audit body monitors the training given. It seems to me, however, that three days are not enough to bring people up to level. Above all, there is no language test at the entrance for drivers. For safety, it is important to ensure that everyone has the right language training, especially on lines that must cross the two regions of the country. Particular attention should be paid to the fact that drivers and instructors are disturbed by regulatory changes. There is a need for a single system that is easier to transmit.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u62	Mr Minister, the fifth generation mobile Internet, the so-called 5G, offers enormous opportunities. Thanks to high bandwidth and especially due to very limited delays, applications such as self-driving cars and remote operations are possible, which can mean up to 30 billion euros of economic growth and create thousands of jobs. We must not miss this boat; we must get to work on it as quickly as possible. To this end, the necessary frequency bands should be auctioned. However, this auction is currently encountering the institutional complexity that characterizes our country, with the permanent diplomatic consultation, called the Consultation Committee. We have some proposals ready for drastic simplification in this area, so that everyone can work out their own solutions with their own money. After all, even in the case mentioned, it is again about money and that is why it is stuck. For the third time, no agreement was reached in the Conciliation Committee, which threatens to make us miss the boat. Minister, at the last auction, in 2013, it was promised that the issue of money would be subject to objectification. Your predecessor promised that the telecom watchdog, the BIPT, would monitor the media's share permanently. Media, for which the Länder are responsible, absorb up to 80% of Internet traffic by streaming video and music. Why did your predecessor and also party colleague, currently Deputy Prime Minister De Croo, and yourself not honour that appointment? What steps have been taken to carry out that monitoring effectively? What financial proposals have you made to the Consultative Committee? Yesterday, Flemish Prime Minister Geert Bourgeois presented a compromise proposal, a deblocking proposal. He proposed that the share of the frequency bands needed for 5G, namely the 3.5 gigahertz, should be auctioned separately. If that frequency is auctioned today for the next 20 years, our industry and technological and innovative companies can start working and also create jobs. The money issue can be parked with the rest of the old frequency bands, the current mobile phone bands, so we can start today. This compromise proposal is supported by Agoria, the federation of the technological industry. Your party colleague Rik Daems, former telecommunications minister, also supported that proposal yesterday in the Flemish Parliament. Mr. Secretary, why don't you join us in that story? Why are you blocking the auction as a resigning minister in a minority cabinet?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u63	Minister, you very much like to talk about ambition. We would like to see a little more ambition when it comes to smooth telecommunications, especially when the frequencies are to be distributed by auction among operators, important for the use of mobile phones and also very important for the future of 5G. 5G is important not only for our industry, but also for our family life, I am thinking of health and road safety. In order for all intelligent software and sensors to communicate with each other, we need 5G. I hope that we will be able to use the auction to get rid of the fact that there are still places in Belgium where people cannot even make a decent phone call. Perhaps there should be a fourth operator; perhaps there should be more quality competitiveness. Yeah, that's one of the possibilities. But important in the rollout of 5G is that you can offer coverage anywhere in Flanders. I ask you whether, after all the discussions that have taken place in the past, you can guarantee that in the villages, in the rural areas, you will not be deprived of the new technology and that you will also be able to use the latest apps and software. Minister, I also have a question about timing. How fast should the roll-out take place? Can we wait until we can decide separately on 5G later? If there is any doubt, there will also be no aircraft on the Belgian market. Then we will miss investment, and that would be a pity. Telecom is an essential driver for many innovations in technology. Maybe there was a mistake, I don't know, when radiation standards were transferred to the regions. That has caused a lot of headaches. Perhaps the solution lies either with Europe or with re-federalisation, but as it is now, with all the twitching, it is not working, and that is very unfortunate. They made a mess of it. Mr Minister, can you also be an active advocate of getting better in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u64	Minister, what exactly is 5G? That's the fifth generation of the mobile network and the fifth generation of wireless systems. Let us return in time. The network 1G is the cable phone. The 2G network went a little further. That was the Nokia cell phone we could use to call and text. We could play Snake on it, too. 3G was the first smartphone on which we could read our emails and the newspaper. Then came with 4G the introduction of Netflix on our smartphone. We could watch TV on our cell phone. Finally, 5G is the future as we imagined it in the 1960s. Then there were the Jetsons, the Flintstones of the future. The Jetsons drove self-driving cars and drones delivered packages in the smart cities. Colleagues, at the Jetsons, that was all possible. In the '60s, they looked so far ahead. I come back to yesterday when the Consultation Committee again failed to reach agreement on the auctioning of spectrum licences, which are so very important for the deployment of the 5G network in our country. However, the roll-out of 5G is much needed for new technologies, as has already been stated here by the other Members. We think about construction, health care, surgery and the gaming industry. 5G is essential for all these sectors. If we are to fulfil the ambition and role of digital Belgium, which is Belgium as a digital frontrunner, the roll-out of the 5G network is extremely important and the auction must take place as soon as possible. Mr. Secretary, you called it an ordinary penny issue. Because the Communities want a larger share of the cake, they block the auction. You reacted disappointed, along with the business world, by the way. That disappointment seems to us to be justified. Nevertheless, yesterday we saw an opening at the hands of the Prime Minister of Flanders, Mr Bourgeois. After all, he proposed auctioning the 3.5 gigahertz band separately, so that the roll-out of 5G could start. My question to you, Minister, is therefore very specific. Does Mr Bourgeois' opening offer a way out? What will you do and what steps will you take to allow the spectrum auction to take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u65	Minister, I think you would have imagined your transition from Secretary of State to Minister. After the debacle in connection with the fourth operator, you received another poisoned gift with the failed file of the 5G auction. Yesterday, the issue of the government's failed telecoms policy and, more specifically, of former Minister De Croo fell. I can't hold you personally responsible for that. After his disastrous passage on government companies.... look at bpost and Proximus..................................................................................................... The BIPT had finished its work two years ago and since then it has remained in a slide of the liberal cabinet. Even if this is a technical dossier, the issue has already been raised by other colleagues, because the delay makes it impossible for consumers, for example, to use the internet, self-driving cars and even medical applications. Now the matter is in danger of getting bogged down again in a Community debate. Mr Minister, how did it actually come to this? Has your predecessor never consulted with the Communities or his cabinet staff? What will happen to the 2G and 3G networks now? Are the licences automatically renewed? Finally, do you intend to disconnect the bandwidth allocation required for 5G? What is your view on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u66	Mr President, the debate shows that everyone now recognises the importance of the rapid and orderly roll-out of 5G for our country, for citizens and for the economy. It is, however, quite wrong, Mr Geerts, that my predecessor and I have mishandled that dossier. Minister De Croo and myself are the driving force to bring the dossier to a successful conclusion quickly and in an orderly manner. It is true that the telecom mill sometimes runs very slowly, sometimes even too slowly, because many different parties want to say so. When the dossier was approved at the Council of Ministers on 26 July after numerous consultations, IKW's and stakeholders' comments, we just pressed the gas pedal extra and presented the file at the next meeting of the Consultation Committee. There, however, we had to see that the regions were blocking things. There has never been a rational, reasoned and quantified counter-proposal from the regions to depart from the proposal on the table. They just said no. I made a final proposal yesterday, namely to allow the auction to take place, so that investments can take place and we do not waste time in the roll-out of 5G, so that after the elections we can talk about the distribution of revenue. That's how it went with 4G, by the way. That proposal was simply wiped off the table cold. I have heard a clear nun, a clear no. I just want our country to remain ambitious in the area of 5G. We are lagging behind in the roll-out of 4G. As a result, today we have data packets that are among the most expensive in Europe. As a result, 4G use in Belgium is very limited. Indeed, this delay also inhibits digitalisation and economic growth. The delay we are now experiencing in the area of 5G will have an even greater effect. The business community has indeed, quite rightly, sounded the alarm. I absolutely understand the concerns of those different captains of industry. The delay costs the companies money and harms them in relation to companies abroad. An ambitious policy therefore now requires a decision that the auction can take place. It's necessary. The operators need to be burned just ahead. The false solution that was put on the table yesterday is simply not an option. By auctioning only one of these three bands, only very local applications can be invested. A rural roll-out is absolutely not possible. Nor will it be possible to cover rural areas, on which a Royal Decree on 4G was issued last Friday. In Bièvre and Veurne we will thus not see a 5G. So we would once again create grey and white spots if we accepted Geert Bourgeois' proposal. This also highlights the need for a fourth operator. It must, after all, just lower prices for consumers and continue to put pressure on them to push forward the investment rate in 5G of operators. The new player will invest directly in new technology and the rest will absolutely have to follow. The impact of 5G on our economy and job creation is many times greater if we do so, than with 3G and 4G. That is why the arrival of a fourth operator is crucial for the overall economy and future employment in our country. The operators also asked in Agoria's proposal for the authorisation of BIPT to use their current frequencies for two years longer. That's just not possible. The new European Electronic Communications Code obliges us to grant frequencies for at least 15 years. This can only be done through a general auction. What Agoria and Prime Minister Bourgeois are proposing cannot and is not efficient either, because such an extension would also be free of charge. First Bourgeois comes to ask for more money and then he would give away the frequencies for free. At least that's not consistent. I do not want and will not play that game; let that be clear to everyone. We must not miss the boat of 5G, certainly not because of an ordinary issue of money, and certainly not because of a kind of blocking confederalism, where everyone wants to say something about matters that were already agreed in 2013. I repeat my appeal very clearly here. Let us organise the auction for 5G in its entirety and, after the elections, talk about the distribution of revenues. Then there is no delay in investment and that is good for the consumer. This approach offers legal certainty and we are finally making our country a leader in digitalisation and innovation. At least I still have that ambition.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u67	Mr Minister, auctioning and later talking about the money, I have already heard that. We heard that in 2013. Then it was said to auction and to organise a permanent monitoring later in order to distribute the money fairly. That's exactly what didn't happen. There lies the heavy responsibility of your predecessor, Minister De Croo. The ongoing monitoring, which was agreed, the commitments made in 2013 were not respected by your predecessor. Now finally take up that responsibility, do what has been agreed, enter that permanent monitoring, stop blocking this dossier. Make sure there is a solid proposal for the money issue, because there was. The basis would be the monitoring by the BIPT, which your predecessor left behind. Stop blocking. Geert Bourgeois' solution is a solution. It is supported by Agoria, by the technological industry, by the industry that needs 5G. This industry confirms that the roll-out of 5G can today start highly innovative applications. The world does not stop running on an extension of existing licences. There are those who are assigned to work. We can work on this and we cannot miss the boat in the meantime. Take responsibility, take the outstretched hand and stop blocking, so we don't miss thousands of jobs.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u68	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The 5G file, the telecom file, is really too important and should not be the subject of a round of political strides between the levels of policy. It was already a mistake to transfer radiation standards to the Regions, especially from a scientific point of view and even more from a health point of view. You're saying the telecom mill is running way too slow. I'm telling you that the world is moving much faster than the federal telecom mill, and we can't fall behind. I would suggest that the Regions deal with content and culture, but that everything in terms of telecom infrastructure is and remains federal. The proposal of Prime Minister Bourgeois would be a bad one if it showed that after years of discussion and special cartography of BIPT, white spots were once again created in Flanders. This would not serve Flanders. You're talking about an auction for a period of 20 years. Europe is talking about 15 years from now. I believe that this is more than enough. The first auction must take place now, because it is now a scarce commodity and has market value. We have seen in other financial transaction files what waiting can lead to. There's no time to wait. It's time to act.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u69	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You're very clear. Only auctioning the 3.5 gigahertz band is not a solution. I think we should fit in with a Flanders with white and, above all, gray spots. Those gray spots are very often the outskirts of the country. There too, they are entitled to 5G. I therefore call on the Communities to return to the table as soon as possible. After all, delays cost money, much more money than the total proceeds of the auction, namely missed investments in forward-looking sectors and innovative jobs. If the future is technologically within reach, the ordinary penny issue, which has become the file, should not stand in the way of that, because that is your power of blocking, Mr Dedecker.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u70	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot get rid of the political impression that the fanaticism of the N-VA, on the one hand, and the clumsy and bad telecommunications policy of Open Vld, on the other hand, in short, the policies of the self-proclaimed spokesmen of Voka and the VBO actually force our companies to lag behind, we do not create jobs in innovative sectors and our country misses billions of investment. Now, colleagues from the N-VA and Open Vld, that is your responsibility. I wouldn't be proud of that at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u71	Minister, we have just had a debate here on how high the bar should be for climate action. Colleagues, we already know, we need to achieve the European objectives. They're already binding. In particular, I would like to think about concrete measures to deal with this bar, in order to achieve those objectives. Hence this question about offshore. The federal government has been investing in windmills at sea for many years, the so-called offshore wind farms. At the moment there are already five wind farms in our Belgian North Sea with a total capacity of about 1.2 gigawatts. There is still plenty of construction going on so that we would reach 2,3 gigawatts by 2020. This will account for about half of this country's green electricity production by 2020. Meanwhile, the minister hasn't been idle. You saved as much as EUR 5 billion in grants for the construction of the last five parks. Important for achieving the climate and energy targets is that you have also committed yourself to ensuring that by 2030 there will be 4 gigawatts of windmill capacity in our North Sea to generate green electricity. You have recently provided additional space in the marine spatial plan 2020-2026. Minister, 4 gigawatt is more than the entire capacity of Goal. In order to obtain the best possible price for these new parks, a framework law for a so-called tender procedure was drawn up. This could allow us to build non-subsidised wind farms, just like the Netherlands and Germany, by 2025. This would achieve a double objective, namely more renewable energy and as little public support as possible. In fact, can it be even better? This framework law was recently adopted in the Consultation Committee. Minister, what further steps need to be taken to ensure that the tender and construction of the new parks start in good time to reach our target of 4 gigawatts by 2030?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u72	Thank you for this question. It has always been my intention to make offshore a spearhead in the energy transition that Belgium has to implement. The thousands of climate protesters who have returned to the streets today prove that people expect us to have a substantiated, quantified and realistic proposal to achieve these climate targets. We have been very ambitious in this. We had oversubsidisation in the past. That EUR 5 billion is gone now. At the same time, we have remained faithful to the 2.2 gigawatt target in our North Sea by 2020. We are achieving climate goals in a cost-effective way. Today everyone in our North Sea can see how these mills are installed. I'll take a closer look. We effectively have a new marine spatial plan, which I presented to Parliament a few weeks ago with great interest. This shows that we have offered again an area of 281 km2 to ensure that we can effectively evolve to 4 gigawatts. We will do this in a completely different way, namely putting that park on the market and then seeing which market players are interested in offering it. The intention is to build these parks without a euro subsidy. For this purpose, Parliament will have to approve the framework law on offshore procurement in the coming weeks. It must ensure that we can make all the preparations so that we can push the start button over the next few years, organise the tender and build the parks by 2025. I am counting on Parliament to adopt this law in the coming weeks so that the energy shift to renewable energy can take place. In this way, we are making a concrete contribution to a cleaner environment and to clear climate objectives, but also to the innovation of Belgian companies, without costing the citizen an extra cent.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u73	I thank the Minister for his reply. I hope that Parliament will be able to put this framework law tender offshore quickly on the agenda, as you propose, in order to take the next steps. It is important to send the right signal to citizens and businesses: that we continue to focus on offshore winds, with the aim of keeping state aid as low as possible. We hope that we can count on all the other groups in the Chamber to achieve this. Just do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u74	Minister, I asked Minister De Block my question about the hospital pay supplements, but you will answer for Open Vld. It can't go on like this anymore. I get dozens of stories from people who have to pay thousands of euros. I got an e-mail yesterday from a man who had had a heart surgery. On his invoice were his costs: 140 euro for his share of hospital stay, 1 843 euro pharmacy costs, 73.41 euro for the fees of caregivers and...11 482.54 euro supplement because he chose a single room. This man is being operated on by his heart, which is no joke at all, and then he is asked to pay another EUR 11 000. Surely that cannot last any longer in our country. It's getting worse and worse. The mutualities have produced a study that clearly demonstrates that a total of 563 million euros are billed in honorary wage supplements. That can't last any longer. Who's that money going to? To the specialists. A kidney specialist earns 450 000 euros in our country today. What are we doing? That can't be, getting such a high wage, when there are so many needs. Minister, would it not be a good idea to simply abolish the wage supplements? That's a proposal from the Labour Party. Wouldn't it be better for those gentlemen and ladies, those professors in the university hospitals who perform the operations to earn a normal wage, not with the intention of making a profit but simply to earn a stable wage? If this were to be done, EUR 563 million would be saved for patients, but, according to our calculations, this could also bring about EUR 1 billion for the State Treasury, which could then be invested in hospitals. This money could then be used to provide a good service. Minister, I think this is a good proposal. Do you think it is logical that professors should earn EUR 450 000, for example kidney specialists, and that people should pay EUR 11 000 for an operation? Do you think that's normal?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u75	Mr Hedebouw, my colleague, Minister De Block, is indeed on a mission to Bucharest, where she participates in a European Council of Ministers. Much progress has been made in the last few years with regard to the Supplements to Honorary Wage. There has been a lot of work on abolishing those supplements in different circumstances, or at least limiting them. For example, in the case of daily hospitalizations in double or multi-bed rooms, the Honorary Supplements are currently prohibited and the Minister has been seeking to impose a ceiling for supplements in certain operations, for example in the case of breast reconstruction with his own tissue. Blindly abolishing all pay supplements, even in single rooms, would not be wise. For many hospitals these supplements are also a source of income. By abolishing them, there would be additional pressure on the financial situation of these hospitals, which is not very bright today. The patient would suffer from this, because the fees charged for certain stays will in turn contribute to the accessibility of care for other stays. We make abstraction of the important infrastructure implications and the impact on the organization of work in hospitals in the event of a short-term switch to 80 % or even 100 % single rooms while now 20 % of single room stays continue. In the absence of a structural solution, the abolition of single room pay supplements and the transfer of the funds from private insurance and supplementary insurance to compulsory insurance would mean an increase in taxes and social contributions for all. In our view, that cannot be the intention. Minister De Block also recalls that the sickness funds have repeatedly signed a so-called Medicomut agreement which expressly states that a hospital stay in a separate room is recognised as a special requirement of the rightholder for which even conventional doctors can charge supplements. One does what one says, and one says what one does, or does not do in this case. On a proposal from the Medicomut, Minister De Block has instructed the leading officials of the RIZIV and the Health Service of the FPS Public Health that a joint working group with the participation of the representatives of the doctors and the sickness funds, supplemented by representatives of the hospitals and insurers, should examine the conditions which allow the payment of fees and fees from doctors to hospitals to be capped and reduced. A number of proposals have already been discussed in that working group. These include the preparation of the specifications for patients, the adaptation of accounting rules, the periodicity of the increase in pay supplements and such things more. The consultations are very difficult, as you might expect, and have not yet been concluded. Out of respect for the highly acclaimed consultation model that operates within the compulsory health insurance system, Minister De Block brought all the partners involved to the table at the end of last year so that they would take their responsibility. It is up to them to formulate these proposals and to improve the situation in the short and long term. The working group will meet again next week on a draft final report, with concrete proposals to control and reduce wage supplements. The Minister looks forward to the results of that meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u76	Mr De Backer, in the vicious circle you have just described, there is, of course, one player missing, namely the wages of the specialists. You're underfunding the hospitals. You don't give enough money. The hospitals encourage the wages of honor, because they can raise 40% of them. Sixty percent goes to the specialists and who's the victim? The patient, of course, and the hospitals themselves. Where's the million-dollar surplus going? It ends up in the pockets of the specialists. Mrs De Block did not say a word about this. Surely it is not possible for a kidney specialist to earn up to EUR 450 000 a year? Indecency has its limits. We cannot, however, pay 450,000 euros for simple transactions. A university professor's salary isn't annoyance. It is already in effect in university hospitals, which employ talented people. That would have been much better. In this way, Minister, we would avoid scandals such as the payment of €11,482 for heart surgery. What do we tell the patients? "Take premiums and individual insurance". But they will also cost more and more. We are therefore moving towards a two-speed medicine: medicine for the rich, who can afford it because they have enough money and their insurances will pay them back everything; and medicine for the poorest, to whom we will provide the minimum service. That is the situation in the United States of America, but it is not the model that interests us.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u77	This concludes the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u78	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Werner Janssen, Rita Gantois, Nele Lijnen, Carina Van Cauter, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, Bert Wollants, Caroline Cassart-Mailleux.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u79	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr de Lamotte, referred to the written report. I give the floor to the first author, Mr Janssen.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u80	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we had a good discussion in committee and I am very pleased that this proposal was adopted unanimously across all party boundaries. Our self-employed can only benefit from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u81	Mr President, we have also supported this proposal, albeit with the amendment tabled by N-VA, which we can fully support. However, our group has advocated that no new differences be introduced in the statute. A new distinction is now being made between mothers, adoptive parents and, on the other hand, fathers. There is therefore still a way to introduce some kind of paternity aid for fathers, as this is not currently foreseen. I hope that this can be done quickly so that the social status of the different parents becomes effectively uniform.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u82	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure in this text is based on the right to 105 free service titles for self-employed workers after the birth of a child. These service vouchers allow these mothers to pay for assistance in household tasks as soon as they return to work, allowing them to better reconcile family and working life. Their granting corresponds to the expectations and professional reality of independent mothers. For these reasons, we believe that this measure should be extended to adoptive parents when adopting a minor child. Today, we are erasing inequality. The granting of service certificates in addition to adoption leave is an increase in the social security coverage of independent adoptive parents. In conclusion, our group will fully support this objective and this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u83	Mr President, my group, Ecolo-Groen, also fully supports this proposal. There is no reason to make a difference in the framework of maternity assistance for self-employed women, whether for adoptions or in other cases. For us, there is a need for full equality of treatment in these different cases. That is why we fully support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u84	Mr President, of course we support this text. I would just like to remind the various colleagues of the progress on adoption leave for the parents on which we agreed in the Committee on Social Affairs. It's a long-standing theme. We had argued at that time that it could also be applied to the independents. So that's the case now. This is correcting inequality, which we probably should have done on our own initiative. We will therefore support this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u85	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u86	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2967/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2967/6) The title was changed by the Committee to "Proposal for a Law amending Royal Decree No. 38 of 27 July 1967 on the establishment of the social status of selfemployed persons as regards maternity assistance and the establishment of adoption aid." The title has been amended by the Commission to "Proposal for a law amending Royal Decree No. 38 of 27 July 1967 organizing the social status of self-employed persons with regard to maternity assistance and introducing adoption aid". The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u87	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u88	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Damien Thiéry, Benoît Friart, Stefaan Vercamer, Peter Buysrogge, Jan Vercammen, Benoît Piedboeuf.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u89	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u90	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u91	Mr President, the legislative proposal eliminates a loophole in legislation, in particular the concession for military action, in which the military suffers physical damage during a mission abroad. The proposal provides legal security not only for the military who have an accident or suffer physical damage abroad, but also for all other benefits. I would therefore like to thank Mrs Fonck and Mr Ducarme for also advocating the reimbursement of the costs of medical care for the military concerned, which led to the tabling of an amendment. Our group will approve the proposal and the amendment before us.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u92	Mr President, I would like to explain why an amendment has been tabled in plenary. This is an issue that I raised in committee when this bill was discussed. Even if, at that time, you reassured me, the work later demonstrated that there was a flaw. This bill concerns a rather technical subject, which has evolved enormously over time. It is now a matter of ensuring that there will be no concern in terms of health care coverage, especially for victims. Whether it is after or before 1998 and the various developments in the legislation, all war invalids will be placed on an equal footing. I thank the various colleagues for their work on this amendment because it would be a shame to vote on a bill that would be inaccurate. It will be corrected if this amendment is adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u93	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u94	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1723/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1723/7) The bill has 2 articles. The bill has two articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u95	****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u96	Sustained: the vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u97	Article adopted by article: 1 and 2
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u98	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the reserved amendment and on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u99	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Els Van Hoof, Nathalie Muylle.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u100	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mr Jan Vercammen and Mr Dirk Janssens, refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u101	Mr President, allow me to explain the importance of this legislative proposal. It is part of the advance of designer drugs, variants of classic drugs which are dangerous, however, because the dosage often changes and small doses often lead to overdose. By comparison, in the period between 2004 and 2014, zero drug deaths were reported as a result of designer drugs, which has risen to seven deaths since 2017. It's drugs that people just order online, like a pair of shoes, in the form of their chemical composition. They are taken and already at a small dose there is a death. In order to save lives, we need much more and better information about the use of designer drugs in Belgium, their composition, their impact on the health of users and their pathological reactions. We need a fully-fledged learning drug incident network in Belgium, as is the case in the Netherlands. That network is established by this bill. Today there are still far too many thresholds in the operation of the existing Belgian Early Warning System on Drugs (BEWSD), which is part of the European network. The BEWSD cannot occur quickly and accurately today. A great deal of valuable information is still being lost on the composition, effects and harmfulness of the new drugs. That is why we need a strong information chain and a drug incident network that closely follows the new developments and sends warnings to the world on time. Through such a network we get a good idea of what is on the market and what damage it causes. With the present bill, we will remove the gaps in the functioning of the BEWSD. We are setting up a real learning network, in the sense that all laboratories, not just forensic laboratories, will be obliged to transmit weekly information from analyses to an information database of the BEWSD. We are also setting up ten to fifteen stations in Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels. These are, in fact, emergency services or emergency services where the pathological responses to the drugs will be recorded, together with a questionnaire filled out by the drug user, to see what impact the drugs have on someone and in this way to inform aid workers of their harmfulness. Today, designer drugs on emergency services are often simply thrown into waste, but the bill ensures that these drugs can be transported legally, which cannot be done today, to laboratories where they will be analysed. I am also very pleased with the positive and praiseworthy reactions of the sub-focal points VAD and Eurotox, who were pleased to be able to send better information on the harmfulness of these drugs to aid workers. In this way, the expertise of aid workers and prevention workers in the field will be greatly improved. This can also make policy work more efficiently. In future, we will be able to warn the public much better in the event of a sudden increase in an extremely dangerous substance. In this way we will be able to prevent a great deal of suffering and save people's lives, which is precisely the purpose of this drug incident network. I would like to thank all my fellow Members for their support for this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u102	Mr President, we support this text, for which we will vote later. Indeed, better knowledge of the substances on the market and better reporting of data are essential for the fight against drugs. The creation of a reporting network and the integration of many actors into it can contribute to this. On the other hand, Mr President, I would like to draw the minister's attention to one point, but unfortunately she is absent. I won't make her come back for the pleasure. In any case, even if his party's benches are empty, I hope someone can tell him what I'm saying. The implementation of this text leaves open some questions. I am talking about how caregivers will be involved in data recording, as well as the responsibility for coordinating the drug incident reporting network, particularly in terms of data sharing between the actors involved. The least we can say is that all this is, for the moment, not defined. I therefore call for the means used to implement the law to be clarified and validated before it comes into force, in order to avoid cacophony on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u103	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u104	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2540/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2540/6) The bill has 7 articles. The bill has 7 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u105	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u106	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Wouter De Vriendt, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u107	Mr President, I would like to make a brief statement from the benches. The N-VA Group supports the draft law aimed at reducing the contribution of solidarity to pensions. We support it for three reasons. The first reason is that the contribution of solidarity to pensions was introduced by the Dehaene government, at the time with the socialists, as a temporary crisis tax on pensions. This was then done with a view to joining the euro area. However, the definition of the word 'temporary' has proved to be a very stretchy concept in the file and is once again proof that it is much easier to introduce a tax in our country than to abolish it again. That is why, in principle, it is right for us to reduce the tax increase in question after so many years. The second reason why the N-VA supports the draft law is that the reduction of the solidarity contribution does not apply to the highest pensions of senior officials, judges, professors and also parliamentary staff. That is good, because while average statutory pensions, especially for employees and self-employed persons, are low in our country compared to most other countries, a number of pensions are really high, even if we take into account what civil servants could earn during their career in the private sector. We believe that our pension system, which is under financial pressure in any case, has bigger budgetary challenges and more priority groups than once again and even more raising very high pensions, even when it comes to reversing tax increases. The proposed reform of the solidarity contribution is aimed at a large middle group of pensions, which makes a further distinction between two categories. After the low pensions have already been exempted from the solidarity contribution, this fully exempted group is now being expanded. The upper limit of that exempted group is raised to a pension of EUR 2 594. In concrete terms, the measure means that from now on all workers are finally exempt from the tax in question. Moreover, the tax in question is also reduced from 2% to 1,5% for a middle group of pensioners who receive a pension between EUR 2 594 and EUR 2 903. Anyone with a higher pension will continue to pay a contribution of 2%. For us, it is important that it is not a question of increasing the pensions of the single-centres, as some have said. This is a tax reduction for a large number of retired workers and for many average civil servants who do not receive an exuberant pension. Let that be just the group that can really use and deserves additional purchasing power. That is why it is a righteous measure for us. A third reason, finally, is that because we are working on raising the limits, not with a general reduction in the contributions, we are protecting ourselves from excessive budgetary impact. It was initially estimated at €85 million, which was subsequently reduced to €50 million per year by limiting the target audience. Then we do not yet have a number of tax payback effects, which, according to the Minister's explanation, are estimated at EUR 22 million per year. In addition, the N-VA has always insisted that reducing the solidarity contribution should be part of a wider package of measures to benefit lower pensions. We think they need it the most. At the explicit request of N-VA, part of the budget foreseen, approximately €34 million, was spent on minimum pensions. The €24 million envelope will be available from 2019 for an additional increase of 0.7 % for the minimum pensions of people with a full career. We believe that people who have had a full career should be rewarded more, as far as possible financially and financially. This fits in with the vision that the Michael I administration has always maintained, in particular that more work should also result in more retirement. The increase of 0,7% means that beneficiaries will receive a pension of EUR 1 253. This is an important milestone, because it is 10% higher than the poverty threshold. A great deal has already been said about this, and rightly so. I shall conclude with one final comment. The bill to remove the tax pension trap was already approved in the Finance Committee at first reading. We considered this measure to be very important in the context of the reduction of the solidarity contribution. As a result, people with a small to medium-sized pension also see a gross increase in their pension converted into a real increase in pension and additional income from additional work or real estate are no longer fully taxed. In that package, we are delighted to support the legislative proposal before us.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u108	Colleagues, for the MR group, the bill before us is an extremely important step forward. Moreover, we wish to be able to go even further and, gradually, completely eliminate this exceptional crisis tax. My colleague has already said so. This tax was supposed, at the time of its creation, to be only temporary. It is true that this contribution is not fair, since it consists of taxing something that has already been imposed throughout the worker's career. Since double taxation is not in our DNA, the reduction or even disappearance of this practice can only please us. We also want to see the complete elimination of the tax traps and employment traps that have already been denounced several times by Minister Bacquelaine. But we know that Rome did not happen in one day. Certain realities, including budgetary realities, must be taken into account. The Minister of Pensions is now proposing an important first step, more than encouraging. The lower pensions will no longer be subject to this contribution. As a result of this measure, no fewer than 92,500 pensioners will be completely exempt from this contribution as of March 1, and 100,500 other pensioners will be reduced. Only the highest pensions will still be subject to this deduction, but we hope that they will be for as long as possible. This development is part of a general context of upgrading that we welcome and encourage. I would like to point out that, since the beginning of the legislature, the minimum pension has increased by EUR 130.61 per month for employees and EUR 193 for self-employed persons. These are significant increases, as they are 11% for the former and 18.19% for the latter. These successive increases are increasing the value of those who work and have worked, increasing their purchasing power and reducing the risk of impoverishment of older people. We look forward to it. As you will understand, the MR will support this project and vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u109	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the solidarity contribution was introduced as a temporary measure at the time, but it was to take together the solidarity between pensioners with high and low pensions as a whole. In this sense, we considered it important that, following the changes to the solidarity contribution, the highest pensions should be effectively paid a solidarity contribution. The contribution shall be reduced proportionately for the middle pensions. The amounts were mentioned earlier. Furthermore, we continue to emphasise, also for the future, the increase in minimum pensions. It is true that the pensions of the single people exceed the European minimum threshold, but there is still a way to go in order to do so effectively for family pensions. There has also been talk about the tax trap. We are very glad that it will be okay. It has been discussed for years. The first reason was the holiday allowance that was paid during the holiday, with the result that pensioners saw their pension reduced. We are pleased that this is being done. As part of the discussions on this draft law, we have also pointed out how supplementary pensions paid in capital are converted into interest rates. Those amounts also count to determine the amount of the solidarity contribution. There's another anomaly in the calculation method of that. You have promised us that you will find a solution to this, Minister. We are counting on this to happen effectively, either in the context of a change in the coefficients or, as in our proposal, by assuming that these capitals have been raised after 15 years and should not be counted anymore. That's a simple arrangement.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u110	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to support this draft law with Ecolo-Green. We will abstain. Not that we are in favour of solidarity taxation as a matter of principle. This is not the case. Colleagues have already pointed out that the solidarity tax for the lowest and middle pensions has already been abolished. The government now wants to take a step towards higher pensions. We raised the question in committee as to what net amounts will be involved. This would be a net pension amount of around EUR 1 700 to EUR 1 800 per month. These are undoubtedly higher pensions. At the same time, it is difficult to claim that a pension of EUR 1 700 is very large, especially if the person concerned has to pay for a stay in the rest home. The reason why we do not want to support this draft law is the fact that it makes a gap in the financing of pensions anyway. There is a budgetary gap that has to be filled up somehow. At a time when there is no alternative financing of pensions, we consider this to be rather premature, especially since the lowest pension has been done far too little by this government. There is always an increase in minimum pensions, but, as Mr Sporen said, this increase applies to minimum pensions for people with a full career. This means that one must have worked for 45 years. However, when we look at the statistics, most people do not come close to so many years. The increase in minimum pensions does not really affect the majority of people. In other words, the government's so-called social measure to increase minimum pensions will actually benefit only a very small group of people. The balance in this government's pension policy is nonexistent. To abolish the solidarity contribution and to shift the thresholds for higher pensions are measures that we could support if they were accompanied by a substantial effort on the lowest pensions. However, this has not been the case under this government.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u111	Mr President, Minister, as soon as the Dehaene government introduced this contribution in 1994, DéFI – at the time, the FDF – had fought against it because it penalized pensioners too much, who had already contributed to social security during their careers. We will still recommend its deletion in our 2019 program, but for the time being, we will support your project by considering it a step in the right direction. We also take into account the fact that it is preferable to act gradually, given the budgetary implications which you referred to in committee. A total abolition would cost €336 million while the overall impact of this bill is estimated at €49 million, with a tax return of €22 million. We will vote in favour of this proposal with a view to fully abolishing this contribution in the next parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u112	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the Members who have spoken and very much supported this proposal, which is part of a package on which I will come back later. I would like to reply to Mrs Becq's last comment on certain anomalies in the calculation of this solidarity contribution. I asked the FPD to estimate the budgetary impact on pensions of a change in the transposition rules of the supplementary pension capitals for the solidarity contribution. I asked the FPD to carry out this estimate, taking into account a technical interest rate of 1.75%. This interest rate corresponds to the current interest rate of the return guarantee in supplementary pensions. At present, this technical interest rate is 4.75%. On the basis of the budgetary estimate and in accordance with the questions put by the majority of Members, I will make a royal decision to amend the rules on this basis, if the committee agrees. I will also examine the extent to which it is still necessary to take into account the fictitious interest rate for the calculation of the solidarity contribution after a period of 15 years. I would like to make it clear that the reduction or abolition of this solidarity contribution is an intermediate step. A few years ago, Parliament already reduced the solidarity contribution. Today, it suppresses or decreases the latter for a total of 192,000 people. But as has been pointed out by some members of this House, I am also in favour of the gradual reduction in the totality of this contribution, which in fact represents taxation of pensioners who have already contributed throughout their lives. This does not seem entirely correct to me, considering the meaning of such taxation. I would point out that this contribution was introduced for a very specific reason, namely the entry of Belgium into the euro area. At the time, this was a temporary budgetary necessity in view of a particular situation. The budgetary impact today is 49 million, including 22 million tax returns for the federal government (75%) and the regions (25%). This is part of a whole and I would like to draw your attention – Mr Spooren referred to it – to the 0.7% increase in the minimum pension for a full career. I would like to point out here that this increase of EUR 100 per year in the minimum pension applies to 333,000 persons. Unlike fake news, which has been on the news for many years now, the increase in the minimum pension affects more women than men. Indeed, 199,000 women were affected, compared with 134,000 men. I am prepared to prove before a judicial officer the correctness of these figures. It's starting to get a little painful – to use a term that you use a lot when it comes to pensions – to hear anything about it. So it's more about women than men, not the other way around. I would therefore like to return once and for all to rationality. These numbers, I didn't lay them down! They come from the Pension Administration and can be confirmed to you when you wish. The third important measure is the one under discussion in the Committee on Social Affairs. It concerns the abolition of the "pension trap", which affects 280,000 people. I stress that the populations affected by these three measures are different populations: 330 000 persons for the minimum pension, 192 000 persons for the solidarity contribution, 280,000 persons for the "pension trap". These three measures cover 800,000 pensioners, i.e. one in three pensioners. This obviously indicates the importance and consistency of all these measures. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u113	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u114	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3409/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3409/4) The draft law has 3 articles. The bill has three articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u115	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u116	At the request of the applicant and in accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 6 February 2019, I propose the legislative proposal (Mrs Kristien Van Vaerenbergh) concerning the notification of the civil status on extracts from the registers of civil status, the National Register and the Crossroads Bank of Social Security, No. Point 3099/1, to be referred to the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration, to include it in the debate on the legislative proposal (Mrs Eric Thiébaut, Mr Laurent Devin, Mr André Frédéric, Mrs Fabienne Winckel, Mr Nawal Ben Hamou and Mr Julie Fernandez Fernandez and Mr Emir Kir) in connection with the change in the reference "from the really separated" in the administrative acts, No. 2873/1. At the request of the author and in accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 6 February 2019, I propose that you refer to the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service the bill (Ms. Kristien Van Vaerenbergh) relating to the mention of civil status on the extracts from the registers of civil status, the national register and the Banque-Carrefour de la Sécurité sociale, No. 3099/1, in order to attach it to the discussion of the bill (MM. Eric Thiébaut, Laurent Devin, André Frédéric, Mrs Fabienne Winckel, Nawal Ben Hamou and Julie Fernandez Fernandez and Mr Emir Kir) on the amendment of the reference to "divorced" in administrative acts, No. 2873/1. This bill was sent to the Justice Commission on 24 May 2018. This bill had previously been referred to the Justice Committee on 24 May 2018. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u117	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 11 January 2018, a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 1 February 2018 for the mandates of the Chairman and of first and second deputy chairman of the Standing Committee on the Monitoring of Intelligence and Security Services. In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 11 January 2018, a call for candidates for the terms of office of Chairman and the first and second alternate chairs of the Standing Committee on the Review of Intelligence and Security Services was published in the Belgian Moniteur on 1 February 2018. The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: The following applications were submitted within the prescribed time limit: For the term of office of First Deputy Chairman: - Mr Didier Maréchal (F), Advocate General at the Court of Appeal in Liège. Mrs Vanessa Samain (F), Deputy Prosecutor of the King at the Charleroi Public Prosecutor's Office. For the term of first alternate president: - Mr Didier Maréchal (F), Advocate General, Liège Court of Appeal. - Mrs. Vanessa Samain (F), Deputy Prosecutor of the King's Office at Charleroi Public Prosecutor's Office. For the term of office of second alternate president: - Mr Didier Maréchal (F), Advocate General at the Court of Appeal in Liège. For the term of office of second alternate president: - Mr Didier Maréchal (F), Advocate General, Liège Court of Appeal. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 6 February 2019, I propose to deliver the curriculum vitae of candidates to the political groups. The candidates shall be heard by the committee responsible for the supervision of the P Committee and the I Committee. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 6 February 2019, I propose that you transmit to the political groups the curriculum vitae of the candidates. The Monitoring Committee of Committee P and Committee R will hold a hearing of the candidates. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u118	The next item is the vote on the appointment of the effective members of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisoners. The next item is the election for the appointment of the effective members of the Central Prison Supervision Board. The Central Supervisory Board shall consist of twelve effective members and twelve alternate members appointed by the Chamber by a two-thirds majority of the votes cast. The Central Prison Supervision Board consists of twelve effective members and twelve alternate members who are appointed by the Chamber by a two-thirds majority of the votes cast. The Central Supervisory Board shall have among its effective and alternate members at least: - two Dutch speakers and two French speakers who hold a Master's degree in Law, including at least one Dutch-speaking and one French-speaking magistrate of the seat; - one Dutch-speaking doctor and one French-speaking doctor. The Central Supervisory Board shall include among its actual members and its alternate members at least: - two French-speaking and two Dutch-speaking nationals who hold a Master's degree in law, including at least one French-speaking and one Dutch-speaking magistrate; - a French-speaking doctor and a Dutch-speaking doctor. The Chamber of Representatives should appoint an office among the effective members, consisting of two Dutch-speaking and two French-speaking members, of which at least one member holds a Master's degree in Law per language role. The House of Representatives must appoint from among the actual members an office, composed of two French-speaking members and two Dutch-speaking members, of which at least one member per linguistic role holds a master's degree in law. The Chamber shall appoint one member of the bureau as President and one as Vice-President. They are of different language roles. The House shall appoint one member of the Bureau as Chair and one member as Vice-Chair. They belong to a different linguistic role. The applications were announced at the plenary sessions of 22 November 2018 and 10 January 2019. Nominations were announced during the plenary sessions on 22 November 2018 and 10 January 2019. The Justice Committee heard all candidates on 12 December 2018, 9 and 23 January 2019. The Chair of the Committee reported on those hearings at the Conference of Presidents of 6 February 2019. The Justice Commission heard all candidates on 12 December 2018, 9 and 23 January 2019. The chairman of the committee reported on these hearings in the Conference of Presidents on 6 February 2019. The Conference of Presidents of 6 February 2019 decided, for organisational reasons, to spread the vote on the appointment of effective and alternate members and members of the Bureau. The vote on the appointment of alternate members, Bureau members, president and vice-president will take place in the next few weeks. The Conference of Presidents of 6 February 2019 decided, for organisational reasons, to stagger the election relating to the appointment of the actual and alternate members as well as the members of the Bureau. The election for the appointment of alternate members, members of the Bureau, the President and the Vice-President will take place in the coming weeks. The list of candidates was distributed on the banks. (3531/1) The list of candidates was distributed on the benches. (3531/1) The ballots have already been distributed. Ballot papers have already been distributed. As the vote is secret, the ballots must not be signed. Due to the secret nature of the ballot, ballot papers cannot be signed. To vote, one must place a cross in the box next to the name of the chosen candidate. Vote notes with more votes than there are mandates are invalid. A vote should be taken by drawing a cross in the box opposite the name of the selected candidate. Ballot papers containing more votes than there are warrants to be filled shall be void. You can tick up to 6 names of Dutch-speaking candidates and 6 names of French-speaking candidates. You can draw a cross for up to 6 French-speaking candidates and 6 Dutch-speaking candidates. First we have to put together one or two desks of voters by drawing lots. Each bureau shall be composed of four members. I propose, however, that the last two Members who have taken their seats at the Bureau today should be nominated for the vote. We must first draw lots from one or two offices of deputy returning officers, each composed of four members, who will be responsible for the counting. I suggest, however, that you appoint the two youngest members to the bureau this day to take the ballots. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Ladies Nawal Ben Hamou and Yoleen Van Camp are appointed to record the votes. Ms. Nawal Ben Hamou and Ms. Yoleen Van Camp were appointed to vote. I suggest that the ballots be counted in the conference room, in the presence of the voters. I propose that you proceed to the counting of the ballots in the Conference Hall, in the presence of the deputy returning officers. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I would ask every Member to put his unsigned ballot paper in the ballot box when calling his name. Please come along my left side to the speaker's seat and leave it on my right side. Upon the call of his or her name, each member is requested to submit his or her unsigned ballot in the ballot box, going up to the rostrum from my left to my right. I invite the voters from the names to call. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u119	Did everyone vote? Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? I declare the vote closed. I invite the voters to proceed to the vote. I declare the ballot closed and invite the deputy returning officers to proceed with the counting.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u120	In the last distributed agenda you will find a list of proposals whose consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 6 February 2019, I also propose that you consider: - the legislative proposal (Mr Frédéric Daerden cs) amending the Law of 26 July 1996 on the promotion of employment and the preventive safeguarding of competitiveness, in order to restore room for wage increases, No. 3509/1; - the legislative proposal (Mrs Karine Lalieux cs) amending the Royal Decree of 25 November 1991 laying down the rules for unemployment, in order to remove the rule whereby the unemployment benefit is lower when the benefit is combined with income from artistic activities, No. 3518/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u121	- the bill (Mr Brecht Vermeulen) amending the law of 7 May 1999 on games of chance, betting, gaming equipment and the protection of players, No. 3512/1; - the bill (Mrs Sophie De Wit and Mr Philippe Goffin) laying down various provisions in criminal matters and services of worship, No. 3515/1; - the legislative proposal (Mr Raf Terwingen and Mrs Sonja Becq) amending the Code of Justice with a view to improving the functioning of the judicial system and of the Supreme Court, No. 3523/1; - the legislative proposal (Mrs Carina Van Cauter and Ms Sonja Becq) amending the Act of 17 May 2006 on the external legal status of the sentenced persons to a custodial sentence and the rights granted to the victim in the context of the procedures for the enforcement of penalties for the custodial sentences of three years or less, No. 3527/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u122	- the bill (Mrs Leen Dierick and Mrs Griet Smaers) on the professions of accountant and tax advisor, No. 3522/1; - the legislative proposal (Mrs Griet Smaers) amending the Law of 4 April 2014 on insurance introducing a right to be forgotten for certain personal insurances, No. 3524/1; - the legislative proposal (Mr Gilles Vanden Burre and Mrs Caroline Cassart-Mailleux, Griet Smaers and Nele Lijnen) introducing paternity and birth leave for selfemployed workers, No. 3532/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u123	- the proposal for a special law (Mr Jean-Marc Nollet, Mrs Meyrem Almaci and Mr Ahmed Laaouej) on the coordination of the policies of the federal government, the communities and the regions with regard to climate change and the setting of general long-term objectives, No. 3517/1; - the legislative proposal (Mrs Ine Somers, Mr Damien Thiéry and Mrs Nathalie Muylle) amending provisions concerning the provision of scientific and technical advice by the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products and on the financing of the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products, No. 3519/1; - the proposal for a special law (Mr Raoul Hedebouw and Mr Marco Van Hees) on the coordination of the policies of the federal government, the communities and the regions with regard to climate change and the setting of general long-term objectives, No. 3520/1; - the bill (Mrs Nathalie Muylle and Ine Somers and Mr Damien Thiéry) amending the coordinated law of 10 May 2015 on the exercise of health professions, No. 3526/1; - the bill (Mrs Nele Lijnen and Mrs Els Van Hoof and Mr Damien Thiéry) on the establishment of a cannabis agency, No. 3530/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u124	- the legislative proposal (Mrs Julie Fernandez Fernandez cs) amending the law of 15 December 1980 on entry into the territory, residence, establishment and expulsion of foreign nationals, in order to establish a legal framework for the granting of humanitarian visas, No. 3521/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u125	- the legislative proposal (Mr Veli Yüksel and Mr Jef Van den Bergh) amending the Law of 21 March 1991 on the reform of certain public economic undertakings with a view to changing the social designation of the autonomous public undertaking "Belgocontrol" to "skeyes," No. 3525/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u126	- the motion for a resolution (Mr Vincent Van Peteghem and Mrs Els Van Hoof) on the protection of human rights defenders and the shrinking area for civil society, No. 3529/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u127	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 6 February 2019, I also propose that you take into account: - the proposal for a law (Mr Frédéric Daerden et al.) amending the Act of 26 July 1996 on the promotion of employment and the preventive safeguard of competitiveness with a view to restoring margins to increase wages, No. 3509/1; - the proposal for a law (Ms. Karine Lalieux et al.) amending the Royal Decree of 25 November 1991 regulating unemployment with a view to bringing an end to the rule on the reduction of benefits in the event of cumulation between unemployment benefits and income derived from the exercise of an artistic activity, No. 3518/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u128	- the bill (Mr Brecht Vermeulen) amending the Act of 7 May 1999 on games of chance, betting, gambling establishments and the protection of players, No. 3512/1; - the bill (Ms. Sophie De Wit and Mr. Philippe Goffin) on various provisions in criminal matters and in matters of worship, No. 3515/1; - the bill (Mr. Raf Terwingen and Ms. Sonja Becq) amending the Judicial Code with a view to improving the functioning of the judiciary and the Supreme Council of Justice, No. 3523/1; - the bill (Ms. Carina Van Cauter and Sonja Becq) amending the Act of 17 May 2006 on the external legal status of persons sentenced to deprivation of liberty and the rights granted to the victim under the terms of the execution of the sentence with a view to adapting the procedure before the judge for the enforcement of sentences with regard to sentences of deprivation of liberty of three years or less, No. 3527/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u129	- the proposal for a law (Ms. Leen Dierick and Griet Smaers) on the professions of accountant and tax adviser, No. 3522/1; - the bill (Ms Griet Smaers) amending the Insurance Act of 4 April 2014 which establishes a right to be forgotten for certain personal insurances, No. 3524/1; - the proposal for a law (Mr Gilles Vanden Burre and Mrs Caroline Cassart-Mailleux, Mr Griet Smaers and Ms Nele Lijnen) introducing paternity and birth leave for self-employed workers, No 3532/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u130	- the proposal for a special law (Mr Jean-Marc Nollet, Ms Meyrem Almaci and Mr Ahmed Laaouej) coordinating the policy of the federal authority, the Communities and the Regions on climate change and setting general long-term objectives, No 3517/1; - the proposal for a law (Ms. Ine Somers, Mr. Damien Thiéry and Ms. Nathalie Muylle) amending provisions on the provision of scientific and technical advice by the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products and on the financing of the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products, No. 3519/1; - the proposal for a special law (MM. Raoul Hedebouw and Marco Van Hees) coordinating the policy of the federal authority, communities and regions on climate change and setting its long-term overall objectives, No. 3520/1; - the bill (Ms Nathalie Muylle and Ine Somers and Mr Damien Thiéry) amending the coordinated law of 10 May 2015 on the exercise of health professions, No. 3526/1; - the bill (Ms. Nele Lijnen and Els Van Hoof and Mr. Damien Thiéry) on the establishment of a cannabis office, No. 3530/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u131	- the proposal for a law (Ms. Julie Fernandez Fernandez et al.) amending the Act of 15 December 1980 on access to, residence, establishment and removal of aliens, aimed at regulating the issuance of humanitarian visas, No. 3521/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u132	- the bill (MM. Veli Yüksel and Jef Van den Bergh) amending the Act of 21 March 1991 reforming certain public economic undertakings with a view to amending the name of the autonomous public undertaking "Belgocontrol" into "skeyes", No. 3525/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u133	- the motion for a resolution (Mr Vincent Van Peteghem and Mrs Els Van Hoof) on the protection of human rights defenders and narrowing the scope of civil society, No 3529/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u134	I also suggest that you consider: - the draft law (Mrs Karine Lalieux cs) restricting bank file charges in the case of mortgage credit, No. 3514/1; - the legislative proposal (Mrs Caroline Cassart-Mailleux) amending the Royal Decree of 20 July 1971 establishing benefit insurance and maternity insurance for the benefit of the selfemployed and assisting spouses with a view to abolishing the period of care, No. 3516/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u135	- the legislative proposal (Mr Luk Van Biesen) laying down various tax provisions and amending Article 1 (1) (b) of the Law of 5 April 1955, No. 3528/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u136	I also propose that you take into account: - the proposal for a law (Ms. Karine Lalieux et al.) to limit the cost of bank files relating to mortgage credit, No. 3514/1; - the proposal for a law (Ms Caroline Cassart-Mailleux) amending the Royal Decree of 20 July 1971 establishing a maternity insurance scheme for self-employed persons and assisting spouses, with a view to abolishing the waiting period, No 3516/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u137	- the draft law (Mr Luk Van Biesen) introducing various tax provisions and amending Article 1, § 1b, of the Act of 5 April 1955, No. 3528/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u138	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u139	Mr President, I would like to ask for urgency on Bill No. 3517, a proposal for a law coordinating the policy of the federal authority, the Communities and the Regions on climate change and setting general long-term objectives. I would like to briefly justify this request to colleagues. Colleagues, this bill is not an Ecolo-Groen bill. It is a bill that is being drafted, supported and wanted by tens of thousands of young and old people who have been mobilizing for several weeks now on Thursdays and weekends to claim from the whole political world a commitment translated into an act, namely the adoption of a climate law. Today we must listen to and respond to these tens of thousands of young people. The way to answer them is to give this text the absolute urgency today in relation to the timetable we have left in the House and in the Senate before the elections. That is why I would like to make a real point, including those who still have objections or those who doubt the relevance of this text: that they can support the urgency as a response to a widespread societal demand in this country. Beyond the content of the law, which I am not going to present here, we all have a responsibility – Mr President, I am also speaking to you – to bring to fruition the work that we must do in Parliament in good time, before the elections and before the dissolution of our House. We know the calendar is tight. We are all aware of that. So we will all have to work in a timetable that will allow us to have a final vote before the dissolution. In order to achieve this result, an emergency must be declared today by the House. That is why I am calling on all colleagues to support this urgent request for a law which, I repeat, is not just an Ecolo-Groen law.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u140	Mr President, my group will support the request for urgency. However, this is a proposal for a special law and we must have the opinion of the Council of State. This was also discussed yesterday in the Conference of Presidents. I would like to know what you will do about it. After all, there are deadlines. We can ask for an urgent opinion or an opinion on 30 days. However, we are talking about a special law, so I think that period can be extended. I do not think we can begin the discussion until we have the opinion of the Council of State. I do not want to dampen the ambition of Ecolo's colleague, it is, of course, an important legislative initiative. My group is more interested in the concrete measures that will be taken to tackle the climate challenge. This is a framework that will put it in a certain perspective, but the debate on what measures we are going to take is, of course, another debate and we are more interested in that. Mr President, with regard to the legislative initiative in question, I would like to hear from you what you will do in concrete terms with regard to the Council of State. In what time will we be able to have an opinion to begin the discussion of the proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u141	Mr Dewael, the letter requesting an opinion from the Council of State is already ready, it has only to be signed and sent. It's just a matter of advice. In other words, the Council of State has 30 days in theory. However, given the urgency and the limited time available to us in the letter, I urge you to deliver that opinion as soon as possible. If I remember correctly, it says literally that this is preferably done within 20 days. Then I guess we're on the right timeline.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u142	Mr President, it is not entirely clear to me. The urgency that we are adopting here is, of course, the aim of the deadlines for parliamentary debate. I've heard that before. However, if we can only begin when we have the opinion of the Council of State, it will be difficult. The Council of State is not bound by the fact that we are sympathetic to an urgent request here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u143	Mr Dewael, I would remind you of what we agreed at the Conference of Presidents, in particular that the discussion of the proposal could already begin pending the opinion of the Council of State. We have also decided that we in the elected committee, namely the Health Committee, will not vote until we have received the opinion of the Council of State. That's what we agreed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u144	Mr President, may I ask what we will do next week in the special Committee on Climate and Sustainable Development?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u145	Mr President, I would like to summarize our agreements so that there would certainly be no misunderstandings. We agreed to consider the proposal today. Next week we will start hearing from the professors in the special committee, which has now been set up. Then we'll make the Health Commission responsible. That is where we can begin the discussions. I am pleased that you are asking for the opinion and that you will also contact the Council of State to get that opinion as soon as possible. After all, we agreed that we will not vote until after the opinion has been delivered. Let me repeat what I said about this myself. I have no problem with the fact that we are already discussing as much as possible and that we are inviting additional people, if necessary. In any event, we accept that the Court should give its opinion on the proposal before the end of the term of office. If urgency makes matters easier, I have no objection to it. But, ladies and gentlemen, I would also urge that, in addition to the legislative initiative in question, we also take other legislative initiatives to make concrete progress in some areas before the end of the legislative period. That's what we're asking for.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u146	I would like to thank Mr Verherstraeten for giving a very good summary of the agreements we made at the Conference of Presidents. Regardless of the conviction of colleagues on the climate law on the table, the Conference of Presidents made a clear commitment to start work. They do exist in the first instance in the special Committee on Climate and Sustainable Development, led by Mr Wollants, because there will be room for this next week. Mr Wollants is also asking us to start work on this, but not just on that. The following week the legislative work for the special law can then be started in the Health Committee. Of course, an opinion from the Council of State is useful and necessary to complete this work completely, but that should not prevent us from starting work in the Committee on Health. I believe that it is important to ensure that the agreements we have reached at the Conference of Presidents are complied with in order to ensure that our work is orderly. I would also, of course, like to thank Mr Dewael for supporting the urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u147	Mr President, what is not clear to me is what will be the role of the special Committee on Climate and Sustainable Development and what will be the role of the ordinary Committee on Health. It is, of course, that last committee, which will have to do the legislative work. The Special Committee on Climate and Sustainable Development is not a committee that is competent to start discussing a legislative proposal. There is some confusion about this, caused by the communication launched by Mr Calvo following the Conference of Presidents. I thought that next week we would hold a hearing in the special committee with the scientists and professors who laid the foundations for the bill adopted and submitted by Ecolo and Green.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u148	Exactly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u149	Those people belong in the special committee is not the same for me as starting the parliamentary debate on a legislative initiative. No, that's not gonna happen the week after. I am simply asking whether, without the opinion of the Council of State, we can start discussing the legislative initiative? If we start with that, what committee will it be in? (...) (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u150	No, Servais Verherstraeten didn't say that. He said something that's not clear to me. I want to be clear, when we hear next week the four experts or the five professors, what happens the next week with the actual proposal that we are considering today and which we might approve of as a matter of urgency? I want to know that, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u151	I understand, you must contradict me if that is not the case, that the next week the debate on the proposal will begin in the Committee on Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u152	Without the advice of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u153	Without the advice of the Council of State. That's exactly what we agreed to. Of course, we will not vote on it, as Mr Verherstraeten also said before we have that opinion in our hands and have been able to read it thoroughly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u154	Mr President, I would just like to say that this afternoon I sat with two Vice-Presidents of the Committee on Health, Mrs Muylle and Mrs Van Camp, in order to have sufficient support for our agenda and to be able to begin a first discussion. We are in the process of fine-tuning the agenda. The meeting was scheduled to take place on 20 February. I don't know if that's gonna be in the morning or in the afternoon. It will not be to finalize, but to give an initial explanation and to hold the first discussion. I can reassure Mr Verherstraeten. All other work and legislative proposals in the pipeline have all been included in the agenda. This proposal will not therefore vote against all the other proposals. We have already agreed a date for the following week to see whether we can talk or not. We will forward this agenda as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u155	Mr President, first of all, my group obviously has no problem with considering this proposal for a special law. That is the tradition here, but my group will certainly not support the urgency. In fact, the draft law makes a fundamental change in the relationship between the federal state and the Länder, in the sense that the proposal provides for a re-federalisation, which is something new. I am therefore very surprised that Flemish parties have agreed to this at the Conference of Presidents, where it is normally decided unanimously. That really says a lot about the situation in the Flemish parties. Secondly, we will not support urgency, because this proposal does not contain concrete measures, but only objectives, which will make us, as in the Netherlands, going straight on to a climate case where the judges, and no longer the Chamber, will determine how climate policy is conducted. Thirdly, the statement, the'soothing blockage' contained in this proposal, with the creation of seven new institutions just like that, is not what the citizens are asking for in terms of climate. My group will therefore not support the urgency. My group expresses its surprise at the fact that the Flemish parties concluded that agreement at the Conference of Presidents. I believe that there are a lot more important proposals that we would be able to deal with in the period that remains.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u156	Mr President, I have the impression that some work is already being done on the content of the proposal. That is very strange, because this is a recital. If we agree with this, this will be done in the tradition we always hold, to consider any proposal put forward here and to make it the subject of a parliamentary debate. However, I would like to make it clear that, when my group supports the consideration, that is not a preliminaries to the position we are going to take on this issue. We only support an orderly, social and, in this case, parliamentary debate on this issue. The underlying intention of asking for urgency is, of course, to do with the agenda. In fact, the urgency seems to me to have the technical intention that, if the dossier had to be brought to a successful conclusion, I should like to make it quite clear to myself that if it were to take place within the legislature and thus before the elections. I believe that it is a correct democratic attitude to create that space, but I make it very clear that our attitude here is not a preliminaries to the position that we will define in it. Democracy will have to work here and the appropriate majorities will have to be found. The proposal must also pass through the Senate, since it concerns a proposal for a special law and there must still be a possibility of dealing with it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u157	For the record, the proposal has already been considered. The next item is the request for urgent procedure. On the agenda, there is only the urgency. The debate on the proposal will take place in the committee concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u158	Mr President, I shall come back to that last point, namely 'la commission concernée'. I repeat that a special committee, in this case the Special Committee on Climate and Sustainable Development, is not competent to deal with a parliamentary initiative. I'll just give it to you. If next week that committee belongs to the scientific initiators of this particular initiative, that committee will be the master of its own work. It can decide perfectly with a majority that it will continue some discussion in this context. It is quite easy to say here that the next week people will switch to another committee and that they will start in that other committee without having the advice you asked the Council of State. I believe that this may lead to procedural difficulties. My first reaction was to support the request for urgency. I would first like to await next week's meeting of the special Committee on Climate and Sustainable Development. We will be fully involved in hearing the initiators, but my group will abstain today on the request for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u159	Mr President, there are misunderstandings and that is a surprise for me. Mr Dewael, next week's hearing is the first in a series of work as requested by you in the Special Committee on Climate and Sustainable Development. That gives us a chance to work next week. The next week, the Health Commission will take place. Mr Dewael, I understand your concern somewhere, but I think there is an answer to all these concerns. I hope that together we can send out a strong signal and engage in this democratic debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u160	Ladies and gentlemen, the vote on urgency is therefore on the agenda. Monsieur Hedebouw?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u161	Mr. Chairman, I asked you to speak on another bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u162	So, first of all, we take a stand and rise to the urgency requested by Mr Nollet for the proposal for a special law No. 3517. I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u163	Mr President, I would like to ask for the urgency of Special Bill No. 3520. Why? The first emergency is at the climate level. As you know, IPCC experts have indicated that, in order not to exceed a temperature rise of 1.5°C, there is a maximum production limit of 400 Gt of CO2 not to be exceeded in our atmosphere. We produce more or less 45 to 48 Gt of CO2 per year. Therefore, we have a few ten years left to reverse the fate and avoid this overtaking, which will have a chilling effect. The second emergency is these tens of thousands of young people. Thousands of young people from all over the country, Flanders and Wallonia, in Brussels, and also in the Netherlands and around everywhere, are fighting a battle which I believe is urgent. In my view, it is a matter of having a sense of urgency about this special bill on the agenda. Academic experts have worked on a text. They asked different political parties to introduce it into Parliament, and we felt it was important to do so. You have heard that a bill has already been introduced, setting out the outline of this text, but in which, for a reason that is not very clear, one of the stated objectives has been revised downwards. The original text included a 65% reduction in CO2 emissions by 2030. I do not know why this objective has been reduced. Is this already the result of a discussion with the MR? The original draft law of the experts has therefore been slightly amended. There was a proposal to submit the original bill, and that is what we have done now. I want to make it clear that this is not a PvdA bill, but of the experts with the objective of 25%. We would like to ask the House today the urgency of this legislative proposal No. 3520.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u164	Mr President, I have the impression that from the moment the urgency is voted on the text of Ecolo-Groen, the text of the PTB is drawn up and that there is no need to vote on it as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u165	I asked the services for advice. It is better to say a second time, although the subject is exactly the same. I therefore propose that we now give our opinion on the request for urgent procedure for document 3520/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u166	Mr President, in the Finance Committee there is Luk Van Biesen's bill on the tax provisions law (No. 3528). It is a draft that has partly been blocked by the government crisis and has been re-established by a number of colleagues led by Luk Van Biesen. I would like to ask the urgency of this because there are still incidences in the budget. A number of tax provisions entered into force on 1 January. There are some things here that we should be able to approve in this legislature. These are technical matters that I would like to speed up, and I therefore call for the urgency of getting them approved before the end of the legislature. I do not believe that this will cause much opposition on the part of the other parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u167	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u168	Mr President, I, too, would like to ask for the urgency of Bill No. 3532. It aims to introduce paternity leave for self-employed workers. This is the result of constructive and collective work by the Economy Committee. We have worked with colleagues from several political groups, beyond the traditional boundaries between majority and opposition. Our goal is to be able to land with a vote in committee next week. I ask for urgency so that we can complete this work, which is important so that all independent fathers and co-parents can also benefit from leave at the time of the expansion of their families.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u169	I propose that we take a decision on this request. I propose that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u170	Mr President, as this Parliament wants to work and as we must, ladies and gentlemen, carry out a number of reforms together, I would like to ask for the urgency of Bill No 3518 amending the Royal Decree of 25 November 1991 regulating unemployment in order to put an end to the rule on the reduction of benefits in the event of the cumulation of unemployment benefits with income from the pursuit of artistic activity. We know how much our artists suffer, we know how difficult it is to create freely. We had a debate and hearings in committee with Minister Peeters. He concluded that we need to move forward so that the rules are clear to all our creators.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u171	It is therefore document 3518/1. I propose that we take a decision on this request. I would suggest that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u172	Votes 124 Votants Blank or invalid 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... White or invalid Valid 121 Valables Two-thirds majority 81 Two-thirds majority Dutch-speaking candidates Dutch-speaking applicants Master of Law: Master and droit: Mrs Valérie Arickx received 116 votes. Ms. Valérie Arickx obtained 116 votes. Mr Florent De Mouth received 0 votes. M. Florent De Mond a obtenu 0 voix. Mr Vincent Eechaudt received 0 votes. Mr. Vincent Eechaudt obtained 0 votes. Mr Raf Gerits received 0 votes. Mr. Raf Gerits obtained 0 votes. Mrs Greet Smaers has received one vote. Greet Smaers obtained 1 vote. Mr Tony Van Parys received 111 votes. Mr. Tony Van Parys obtained 111 votes. Magistrate of the seat: Headquarters magistrate: Mr Marc Allegaert received two votes. Mr. Marc Allegaert obtained two votes. Mr Henri Debucquoy received 0 votes. Mr. Henri Debucquoy obtained 0 votes. Mr Bart De Temmerman received 0 votes. M. Bart De Temmerman a obtenu 0 voix. Mr Walter Thiery received 115 votes. Mr. Walter Thiery obtained 115 votes. Doctors: Doctors: Mr Jan Decock received 0 votes. Mr. Jan Decock obtained 0 votes. Mr Norbert Verleyen received one vote. Mr. Norbert Verleyen obtained 1 vote. Mr Tony Vermeulen received 112 votes. Mr. Tony Vermeulen obtained 112 votes. Overige leden: Other members: Mr David Baele received 113 votes. Mr. David Baele obtained 113 votes. Mr Ralf Bas received 116 votes. Mr. Ralf Bas obtained 116 votes. Mr Lode Goukens received 0 votes. Mr. Lode Goukens obtained 0 votes. Mr Pieter Houbey received 0 votes. Mr Pieter Houbey obtained 0 votes. Ms Valérie Arickx, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was declared an effective member of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisoners. Ms. Valérie Arickx, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the votes, was declared an effective member of the Central Prison Supervision Board. Mr Tony Van Parys, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was declared an effective member of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisoners. Mr. Tony Van Parys, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the votes, was declared an effective member of the Central Prison Supervision Board. Mr Walter Thiery, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was declared an effective member of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisoners. Mr. Walter Thiery, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the votes, was declared an effective member of the Central Prison Supervision Board. Mr Tony Vermeulen, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was declared an effective member of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisoners. Mr. Tony Vermeulen, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the votes, was declared an effective member of the Central Prison Supervision Board. Mr David Baele, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was declared an effective member of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisoners. Having obtained a two-thirds majority of the votes, Mr. David Baele was declared an effective member of the Central Prison Supervision Board. Mr Ralf Bas, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was declared an effective member of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisoners. Mr. Ralf Bas, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the votes, was declared an effective member of the Central Prison Supervision Board. French-speaking candidates Francophone applicants Master of Law: Master and droit: Mr Patrick Charlier received two votes. Mr. Patrick Charlier obtained two votes. Mrs Catherine De Bruecker received 0 votes. Catherine De Bruecker obtained 0 votes. Mr Claude Debrulle received one vote. Mr. Claude Debrulle obtained 1 vote. Mrs. Sarah Grandfils received 116 votes. Ms. Sarah Grandfils obtained 116 votes. Mr Francis Lefebvre received 0 votes. Mr. Francis Lefebvre obtained 0 votes. Mrs Olivia Nederlandt received 0 votes. Mme Olivia Nederlandt a obtenu 0 voix. Mr Marc Nève received 114 votes. Mr. Marc Nève obtained 114 votes. Magistrate of the seat: Headquarters magistrate: Mrs Béatrice Chapaux received 0 votes. Ms. Béatrice Chapaux obtained 0 votes. Mr Jean Louis Evrard received 114 votes. Mr. Jean Louis Evrard obtained 114 votes. Mr Jean-Pierre Gaudy received 0 votes. Mr. Jean-Pierre Gaudy obtained 0 votes. Mr Pierre Jacobs received one vote. Mr. Pierre Jacobs obtained 1 vote. Mrs Ludivine Kerzmann received 115 votes. Ms. Ludivine Kerzmann obtained 115 votes. Mr Jules Malaise received 0 votes. Mr. Jules Malaise obtained 0 votes. Mrs Martine Michel received 118 votes. Ms. Martine Michel obtained 118 votes. Mr Michel Pieraert received 0 votes. Mr. Michel Pieraert obtained 0 votes. Mrs Joelle Vandeput received 0 votes. Ms. Joelle Vandeput obtained 0 votes. Doctors: Doctors: Mr Yves de Locht received one vote. Yves de Locht obtained 1 vote. Mr Marc Vanderveken received 115 votes. M. Marc Vanderveken a obtenu 115 voix. Overige leden: Other members: Mrs. Arlette Donnay got 0 votes. Ms. Arlette Donnay obtained 0 votes. Mrs Isabelle Etienne received 0 votes. Ms Isabelle Etienne obtained 0 votes. Mrs Brigitte Feys received 0 votes. Ms. Brigitte Feys obtained 0 votes. Mr Michel Gustot received 0 votes. Mr. Michel Gustot obtained 0 votes. Mr Alain Harford received 0 votes. Mr. Alain Harford obtained 0 votes. Mrs Vinciane Saliez received 0 votes. Mrs Vinciane Saliez obtained 0 votes. Ms Sarah Grandfils, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was declared an effective member of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisoners. Ms. Sarah Grandfils, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the votes, was declared an effective member of the Central Prison Supervision Board. Mr Marc Nève, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was declared an effective member of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisoners. Having obtained a two-thirds majority of the votes, Mr. Marc Nève was declared an effective member of the Central Prison Supervision Board. Mr Jean Louis Evrard, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, is declared an effective member of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisoners. Having obtained a two-thirds majority of the votes, Mr. Jean Louis Evrard was declared an effective member of the Central Prison Supervision Board. Ms Ludivine Kerzmann, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was declared an effective member of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisoners. Ms. Ludivine Kerzmann, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the votes, was declared an effective member of the Central Prison Supervision Board. Mrs Martine Michel, who has received the two-thirds majority of the votes, is declared an effective member of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisoners. Ms. Martine Michel, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the votes, was declared an effective member of the Central Prison Supervision Board. Mr Marc Vanderveken, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, is declared an effective member of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisoners. Mr. Marc Vanderveken, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the votes, was declared an effective member of the Central Prison Supervision Board.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u173	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 133 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be ratified by the King as a bill of law. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (2967/7) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill to the Royal Assent. (2967/7) Reason for abstinence? [[(]] No. [[)]] Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u174	Mr President, I have been with our colleague Benoît Lutgen. The same will apply to the other votes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u175	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Vote on Amendment No 1 by Catherine Fonck cs to insert an article 3(n). (1723/8) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Catherine Fonck cs to insert an Article 3(n). (1723/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 134 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 134 Total The amendment was therefore adopted. Consequently, the amendment was adopted. I quote Rule 95 (3) of the Rules of Procedure: 'If an amendment has been adopted by the plenary at first reading, the final vote on the bill or legislative proposal thus amended may not take place until five days have elapsed'. This means that we will not vote on the amended proposal until next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u176	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u177	Mr President, our group obviously feels it necessary to have more information on drugs, specifically on new drugs, quickly. Better exchange and recording of data should make it possible to better alert the population in a targeted way. However, we believe that it is essential to include it in a comprehensive, coherent and concerted drug policy with all actors on the ground, in a vision of public health and risk reduction. That, in our view, is not the case in this text. We regret, moreover, that we have not been able to interact with the actors on the ground in this context. That is why, Mr President, as he did in committee, our group will abstain today on this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u178	Is anyone still asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 107 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 27 Abstensions Total 134 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (2540/7) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (2540/7) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u179	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 90 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 42 Abstensions Total 132 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3409/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3409/5) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-07-54-plenair-ip269x.u180	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 14 February 2019. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, February 14, 2019. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 14 February 2019 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, February 14, 2019 at 2:15 p.m.
