ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic053x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, on our agenda this afternoon is the follow-up to the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on Terrorist attacks and, more specifically, the recommendations concerning the victims. That is why we have invited ministers De Block and None. I am happy to give the floor to Minister None for an evaluation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic053x.u2	Madam President, Mrs De Block, ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentary committee of inquiry into the terrorist attacks that have plagued our country has done very good and thorough work. A series of recommendations have been made on aid to victims in various areas that we as a government have taken to heart. We started working on those recommendations in an interfederal task force set up by decision of the Council of Ministers of 14 May 2017. This task force is composed of representatives of all the departments concerned, both federally and sub-stately, and of representatives of the victim associations. The task force met eight times so far. Additional initiatives which were not directly based on those recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry were also discussed. The government has opted to make improvements to victims as soon as possible. This is not possible by making tabula rasa of existing auxiliary systems. Instead, each department responsible has worked on specific and important legislative initiatives that build on the existing structures that are trusted and that have already proved their worth. I will briefly mention three aspects which are at least part of my competence and in which we have made progress in the past legislature. First, the legislation on financial assistance from the Victims' Fund has been amended so that the Victims' Financial Assistance Commission can intervene more quickly and grant higher amounts. The amending laws were published in the Monitor on February 8, 2019. Victims of terrorism are granted financial assistance by the committee by way of an advance by decision of a member sitting alone under an accelerated procedure. The emergency is always presumed. If the victim does not agree with the advance, he or she may appeal to a three-member chamber. The emergency aid ceiling has been increased from EUR 30 000 to EUR 125 000 so that the Commission can intervene to a large extent for urgent costs, even if it is established that insurance still needs to be sought to compensate the victim. The State can now also recover the aid granted from the insurer through the subrogation technique. New items of damage have been anchored in the law for legal fees up to 12 000 euros as well as for travel and subsistence expenses up to 6 000 euros. Secondly, I would like to refer to the approval of associations for assistance to victims of terrorism. We all agree that associations are making considerable efforts to support victims and that the work they do is commendable and indispensable. As you know, there were legal obstacles to the accreditation of these associations. These obstacles were removed by the Royal Decree of 17 May 2019, which introduces other criteria for accreditation. I can already tell you that to date, two applications have been submitted by victims' associations. A dossier will be finalized shortly. As far as the other is concerned, not all the necessary documents have yet been submitted. My administration is in close contact with the two associations with regard to the formalities of an application for approval. The approval has the effect of enabling the association which benefits from it to assist victims in the procedure for the granting of financial aid by the Commission for financial aid. Thirdly, the government is aware that the complexity of all aid and compensation systems in our country poses a major challenge to the victims. That is why I would like to conclude with a word about the single point of contact. On 22 May 2019, I concluded a protocol agreement on this matter with the representatives of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the relevant ministers of the Communities. Work is under way on a roadmap, which is due to be completed in 2019 and includes operational work processes at the window. The central point of contact is a close cooperation between the federal parish, the umbrella under which it will be organised, and the competent departments of the Communities. It will be activated after a terrorist attack or a major disaster. Through uniform channels, i.e. a central telephone number and a central address, victims can contact the contact point for all kinds of practical questions about psychological or financial assistance, among other things. The window will also ensure proper registration on the victim list. Easier questions will be able to answer staff at the window itself. If the question is more complex, the victim may be referred to the competent department or body. A reference person will be proposed to each victim. He'll contact the victim himself within two working days. He or she becomes the central point of contact for the victim for all aspects of his or her psychosocial follow-up during the post-care phase. The follow-up may even take years if necessary. Victims need to know that they can always turn to that person for a variety of questions. The reference person may provide information himself, may assist in filling out forms and may refer to or contact the competent department himself. We hope that the designation of a reference person will help alleviate the emotional burden and frustration of victims by providing them with some kind of guidance and support. In order to perform the tasks under the central window optimally, both the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office and the Community departments are recruiting additional staff. These are some specific but important elements that I would like to stress. I am very pleased that, thanks to the good cooperation between the government and Parliament, the situation of the victims is better today than it was a few years ago. This aspect remains, of course, a point of attention. We therefore continue to work in all strategic areas to improve the care of victims. I am at your disposal, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, to provide you with further details together with my colleague Maggie De Block, with whom the cooperation has been excellent, which I thank her for.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic053x.u3	Madam President, if we work well together, that can also be said. I would therefore like to thank Mr Geens. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the associations and victims who are in the public, since 22 March 2016, the government has committed itself by an act of collective solidarity towards the victims and their relatives, implementing concrete measures to obtain compensation and to assign the status of solidarity specific to the victims of terrorist acts. In recent years, I have always given my full support to the initiatives taken by the government to meet the victims of terrorism and to ensure that the federal state supports them. In this way, a law was passed on 18 July 2017. Amendments were added in a spirit of cooperation between the opposition and the majority in response to the recommendations of the parliamentary inquiry. In carrying out the recommendations of the parliamentary committee of inquiry, I became active in the interfederal task force for terrorist victims. As part of the redesignation, solidarity status has been the responsibility of the Ministers of Pensions and Defence since June 2018. For my part, I am responsible for organising the medical expertise and reimbursement of health care, in accordance with the implementation of the statute. The victims of terrorism who received the status of national solidarity were divided into two categories. The first category concerns direct victims who have suffered physical and/or psychological damage as a result of their presence at the place and time of the act of terrorism. The second category concerns the indirect victims or related to the second degree of direct victims, including the legally and factually cohabiting partners and those who can demonstrate a lasting and effective relationship with the direct victim. At present, the direct victims of terrorism are entitled to the following compensation: reimbursement of all medical costs relating to the treatment of the damage incurred and a recovery pension if the judicial medical service determines an invalidity rate of more than 10%. If that is the case, the victims of terrorism enjoy the same benefits as civilian victims, which are a tax exemption from the recovery pension and free public transport. The indirect victims of terrorism are entitled to reimbursement of the costs of psychological care of disorders caused by the recognised acts of terrorism. The Royal Enforcement Orders of 18 July 2017 were all drafted and discussed with the victims' associations and entered into force. This is first of all the Royal Decree of 6 June 2019 adapting the medical procedure and the reimbursement of care for non-residents. Its objective is to maximize the conclusions on a piecemeal basis and, if necessary, to organize medical expertise in the country of residence with the assistance of the FPS Foreign Affairs. This is then the Royal Decree of 22 April 2019 organising a conciliation procedure. The aim here is to respond to Parliamentary Recommendation No. 12. In addition, the Order of 18 June 2018 sets out the terms and the supporting documents for the reimbursement of travel expenses related to care. With the Royal Decree of 23 May 2018, the sickness funds are a gateway to receive a concession. They compile the file and pay the statutory fees to the victim. They then deliver the file to the Auxiliairekas, which will meet the fees, supplements and medical care which are not included in the normal refund via the nomenclature. This royal decree regulates two things. Until the publication of this document, the causal link is suspended. What has not been reimbursed by mutuals or insurance is automatically reimbursed by CAAMI in a one shot operation, in order to solve the problem encountered at the level of mutuals to prove this connection with the lapse of time. After publication, the mutuals will be responsible for establishing the causal link and will only forward to CAAMI the certificates concerned by the damage. Indeed, by their proximity and the knowledge of the victim, insurers are best placed to judge. I also mention the Royal Decree of 27 April 2018 on the distribution of the pension among the different beneficiaries. The Royal Decree of 9 January 2018 on the model of a national solidarity card was discussed and chosen with the victims' associations. Another step forward that will have a real impact on victims is the organization of a unique medical expertise. All examinations will take place in the same place and on the same day. Victims will no longer have to repeat their history several times. This expertise has already been operational for federal authorities since January 2018. We also obtained an agreement in principle with the insurers represented by Assuralia. This decision in principle is a first step, but without a legal change in the insurance system under the jurisdiction of the Minister of Economy, enforcement is not possible. In addition to the Statute, Recommendation No. 9 of the report deals with psychological aspects. In my area of expertise, here is what has been done. Through the Task Force, the Working Group co-ordinated by the FPS Public Health has prepared a vision text for all the psychosocial actors involved. These include concrete cooperation agreements for the acute psychosocial intervention plan. There is also the transfer to the post-acute phase and the commitment of each partner to provide staff with good training as a function of the specific assignment. The division of tasks in psychological guidance during the identification process has also been worked out in concrete terms. The psychosocial network is maintained. There is a basic agreement on the establishment of a centre of expertise within the FPS Public Health. On my question, the Supreme Health Council has also given some advice. There was, among other things, the May 2017 opinion on reception and psychological support following terrorist incidents and related disaster situations. In addition, there were recommendations of October 2017 on the prevention and management of psychosocial residual injuries following individual or collective emergencies. Finally, from May to September 2018, the federal government organised eight meeting days, in which the victims could meet all relevant administrations and services individually as requested. No less than 185 victims responded to that offer. Both the Commission for Aid to Victims and the Judicial Medical Service, the Civil Victims Cell and the Association Sector appointed representatives. In advance, the experts prepared each appointment extensively to answer as many questions as possible. Thank you for listening. As can be seen, a great deal of progress has been made, with any system being perfectable. My last words will be addressed to the victims. I am aware that all victims are, still today, wounded and traumatized by these acts of terrorism. I also know that nothing will redress the harm and suffering that they and their families have had to endure. The Belgian State is fully aware of the difficulties faced by the victims and is making every effort to help them and adequately meet their expectations. Throughout this year, I have listened to the demands and demands of victims' associations to better understand their needs and thus help them in their daily lives and improve their reconstruction. Yesterday, my colleague and I heard the victims' associations and the competent administrations in order to move forward in a spirit of sharing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic053x.u4	Are there general questions or questions for clarification?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic053x.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to have a thought, on this 13 November, about the victims of the attacks in Paris. That was four years ago. Our meeting is on this anniversary date. I would also like to express to them my solidarity, my friendship, because I do not forget that the perpetrators of these attacks came from Belgium and that we have a share of responsibility for what happened in Paris. I wanted to go back to what you said. Undoubtedly, the government has made some progress. But I also think it is important to remember how complicated, difficult and slow it has been to make this path. It must be recognized that the State has not been able to avoid secondary victimization of victims. We said in the committee of inquiry that it was absolutely necessary to avoid this and to have empathy, solidarity and answers to the requests of the victims. I think we need to be on the right side. This is not a ping-pong game, but collectively, the state has not been able to respond, and certainly not initially, to the expectations of the victims. I would remind you that it took more than a year for the committee of inquiry to meet with the victims. After the recommendations of the commission of inquiry, it took much longer for the government to make a series of decisions which, however, were all common-sense decisions. You recalled the one-stop shop, the accompaniment, the reference people, the unique expertise, the subrogation, the creation of an emergency fund... All things that seem obvious, but it took so long for the principles to be applied and we started to start implementing them. And when I say start of implementation, we are still far from the point of view for a number of aspects. You recalled: there is still no one-stop shop. There is a decision to set up a one-stop shop. There's the principle. There are discussions. But three and a half years after the attacks, there is still no one-stop shop for the victims of the attacks. However, this poses a very important problem with regard to the effectiveness of the State in relation to elements that do not appear to be of great complexity. Secondly, the reference person system is not yet fully operational. Again, time is needed and this is not an example of the effectiveness of the State. I do not want to point out the responsibility of a particular person here, but we must be on the right side, the associations are there and the victims are listening to us, we must not cry out for victory today, we are not there yet. With regard to the unique expertise, which was central, Madam Minister, you said it would take place on the same day. But, if I understand correctly, it will not be a unique expertise. It will be an expertise on the Medex side and on the insurance side. There will therefore always be two expertises, which is complicated, with possible conflicts between the two. We must not fool ourselves, there is not yet a single expertise, which was yet a demand of the victims. On the subject of subrogation – the ability of the state to pay first and then turn to insurance – emergency aid has been transformed into emergency advance. Nor was it the request of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry or of the victims, because there will now be some doubt that victims will be able to spend this emergency aid on their own needs. There will be a game with insurance and other types of funds. I would have preferred to have a French system, that is to say, emergency aid that meets the needs of the victims of an attack. This can be extremely diverse things, such as resting or making a trip. The fact that this emergency aid has been transformed into an emergency advance does not seem to me to be progress. As far as associations are concerned, I am pleased that, finally, after an extremely long and difficult journey, approvals will be obtained. I have to remember their financial situation. You have rightly stressed, Mr. Minister of Justice, that they are indispensable in assisting victims as centres of expertise. I believe it is urgent to analyse the requests for funds that some of them have made. This is how V-Europe tabled one two years ago with the Prime Minister's Chancellery, at the Prime Minister's request. However, this request has never been honoured. It is important that these associations can survive, in view of their critical state: no salary is paid, no federal state aid is allocated. The only modest means were granted by the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. In short, tangible recognition of the victims is essential. With regard to the 10% invalidity floor rate, allowing for the benefit of the law of 18 July 2017 relating to the status of national solidarity and the compensation pension, you know, Madam Minister, that the problems persist. You made a commitment that the victims would be able to access this floor rate. However, according to my information, almost half of the victims still do not benefit from it and are denied national status. With regard to recognition of victim status, progress had been made. In general, the system seems to me to be working well. However, I would like to draw your attention to the withdrawal of this status, which has been inflicted on some victims, such as the Zaventem police officers, on the grounds that they were not "direct victims", since they were absent at the time the bombs exploded. On the other hand, those who were not at the site of the explosions, but who were already at the airport, on the other side of the departure hall, received this status, although they did not have to deal with the psychological shock of immediate assistance to the victims and the presence of a third bomb, even where the federal police were operating. Several of them still face serious difficulties in terms of psychological reconstruction, but they have still been deprived of the status of national solidarity. I would like to draw your attention to this point in the hope that we will find a solution. This does not seem to me to be coherent or desirable, and it does not correspond to what had been imagined. These are the questions and reflections that I wanted to put forward. I come back to the invalidity rate, which actually allows the compensation pension. The maximum disability rate is set at 100%. This seems logical, except that the victims of war are in a particular situation. They may have a disability rate of up to 300%. This can be justified in some extreme cases. We all know one or the other victim of the attacks of 22 March in Brussels. These victims have experienced an extremely serious health, reconstruction and psychological situation. They do not understand, because if they had been military, had they belonged to the Defence, they would have obtained a disability rate of 300 per cent, whereas as victims of terrorism they have a maximum rate of 100 per cent. They believe, and I fully agree with their reasoning, that there is discrimination between these two forms of violence. It was blind violence that affected them when we wanted to reach the entire population and the state. These are some of the comments I wanted to make.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic053x.u6	Madam Minister, Minister, I will be brief, as some of the questions I had intended have already been asked. I have some additions. Firstly, is it possible to get an update on the situation of the victims? I assume the government is following this closely. You have said that you are still in dialogue, which is positive. Is it possible to let the committee know how many victims are still unemployed today? How many more victims are using psychological assistance and support? Which mental care is insured today and which is not? I would have liked an overview of this because it would be useful for the discussion. Secondly, the government has drawn up a statute of recognition for the victims of terrorist attacks. This includes a recovery pension. However, the Law of 18 July 2017 provides that this recovery pension is payable only to the victims to whom an invalidity rate of 10% or more has been granted. Madam Secretary, you know the discussion and the associations have been to your cabinet. That point remains open. The automatic recognition of 10% for people who were victims of a terrorist attack has still not been restored. I would have liked to have had an update on this too. Is that even gonna happen? In the meantime, is it in progress? Where are we with that at the moment? Thirdly, you know that the victims are party to a compensation fund. The previous speaker also referred to this. You have already taken a number of legislative initiatives during the previous legislature. The idea of a fund paying the first costs was not put forward at that time. I would have liked to have had an update on this too. Is that still being worked out or are there no plans for that? Finally, in the course of 2017 and 2018, draft laws and amendments were adopted in Parliament which improve the regulation of aid to victims of terrorist attacks. Have all the KBs needed for its implementation been worked out yet? If not, which ones are still in the pipeline and what timing do you foresee for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic053x.u7	Madam Chair, Minister, Minister, I thank you for your clarification of the actions taken in the wake of the commission of inquiry. Many things have been set up, including working groups. However, I am in regular contact with the victims' associations complaining that many of the working groups have not yet been successful when the attacks took place almost three and a half years ago. This sense of abandonment felt by the victims persists, as does the feeling of so-called secondary victimization, that the steps are sometimes so complicated and the information so difficult to obtain that the victims feel a second time victims because of this journey of the combatant they have to go through. I would like to go back to some things that are difficult to achieve and the direct consequences for the victims. First of all, I come to the non-resident foreign victims. Because of our geographical location, a large number of non-Belgian victims were affected by the attacks of 22 March. It is true, Madam Minister, that you have drafted a royal decree which aimed to resolve the question of these foreign non-resident victims by granting them a whole series of compensations: disability pension, reimbursement of medical expenses, revision of the disability rate for aggravation or complication of their bodily harm. However, it is up to me that these victims have received a letter from which they are ordered to go to Brussels to practice their expertise, whereas, as you rightly pointed out, the Royal Decree stipulates that these victims can be assessed in their country of residence. It therefore appears that there is a non-compliance with this royal decree. I'd like to know how Medex will react. Will the information provided to victims be corrected and within what time frame, given the time limit to be respected, in particular with regard to compensation? Secondly, with regard to the approval of associations, criteria have been established for the approval of associations. Therefore, things have been clarified. However, there is still a problem in terms of the conditions for filing a civil claim. This is something I mentioned at the previous meeting of the committee, but I have still not received a reply on this subject, in the sense that Article 17 of the Judicial Code still does not allow associations of victims to have the guarantee of being able to lodge a civil claim, which had been the case, in particular, with Unia. In the context of the trial of assizes relating to the attack at the Jewish Museum of Belgium, some associations of victims could not become civil parties because the court considered that these associations ultimately defended a multitude of individual interests and not a collective interest that would allow them to be recognised as a civil party. I would like to hear you on this point. On the other hand, as far as victims' associations are concerned, I also agree with what has been raised by my colleague Mr Dallemagne, in the sense that, in addition to this, we really need to be able to ensure the sustainability of these associations. It is not viable for them if they cannot count on funding to ensure costly approaches. Many victims rely solely on these associations for information, especially in the absence of this one-stop shop that has been promised to them for quite a long time. Its creation had already been announced for 2018. I mean you recognize the added value of this future single window, the need to have a single interface, a single interlocutor to be informed and duly accompanied. Still, there is nothing yet and this poses a problem for the current victims as well as for victims of potential future attacks. Today, if a new attack occurs, the victims will have no one-stop shop. This is a rather problematic situation. This point is noted by the victims' associations but also by Mr Paul Martens, an expert in the committee of inquiry. I would therefore like to have more details on the establishment of this one-stop shop, but also on its nature, since the victims have heard that this one-stop shop would in fact be just an information window, whereas we should also go to an accompanying window, as is the case in France. You explain that with regard to general questions, the employees of the Single Window will be the reference persons and that, for specific questions, the information will be given to them through the competent specialized services. This brings me to an even more fundamental question, namely the question of the scope of this one-stop shop. Victims' associations fear that this one-stop shop will be competent only for future victims of attacks and not for the victims of the 22 March attacks. I wonder whether that was the purpose pursued by the Committee of Inquiry. In other words, was this the philosophy or was it intended to bring concrete solutions to the victims of the attacks that led to the establishment of the commission of inquiry? I would also like to ask you a question about the time frame for compensation. Of course, there is no time limit for national solidarity status. But a period of three years has been set, from the recognition of the terrorist act, for the financial assistance you have mentioned to the Commission. However, this deadline will soon come to an end as the recognition of the attacks of 22 March 2016 took place on 15 March 2017. However, still many victims have not taken any steps and do not have the information that the above-mentioned deadline is coming to an end. I would therefore like to know whether you would be in favour of extending this deadline, knowing that in France it has been extended to ten years. This brings me to the question of the disability rate. Mr Dallemagne explained very well the problem which was discussed in the parliamentary debates. Amendments to remove this 10% disability rate had been tabled. They were rejected, but you had made a commitment, minister, that this rate of 10% be applied to the victims. It must be noted that many victims...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic053x.u8	[[....]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic053x.u9	If you have statistics that show the opposite, it's very good, but we don't have that information. We can only rely on the testimony of the victims. Thus, according to our information, many victims have not been able to benefit from this rate of 10 per cent, their rate having been set at 3 or 5 per cent, which is why they are not entitled to any assistance. They may only suffer psychological damage, but they may require costly treatment. Even if there is no significant physical injury, psychological damage can be very significant and can result in the victim in very difficult financial situations, which are not acceptable. I would like to hear from you about the possible abolition of this rate, or other statistics that show that indeed victims have been able to benefit from this rate of 10% despite everything. As far as legal aid is concerned, you have rightly said that the ceilings have been raised. We don't deny it at all. But I would like to know how this aid is effective today and how many victims have benefited from it. Finally, I turn to the situation of children in the context of the attacks. Some of the victims were quite young. What has been put in place at the expert physician level to deal with these victims? The management of the trauma of young children requires more advanced and specialized expertise. It is up to me, by some associations, that parents have abandoned the procedures of compensation and expertise because of a cruel lack of information on this subject and the deficiencies in the management of the specificity of the trauma experienced by young children. I would like clarification on this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic053x.u10	Madam President, Minister, Minister, on 22 March 2016, 30 people were killed and more than 300 people were injured in Brussels and were directly victims of terrorism. This is one of the most tragic events our country has experienced. Today I would like to express my full solidarity with the victims and their loved ones. That said, many others were deeply affected by the attacks, including first responders, family members of those killed and injured, and those caught in the attacks but not physically injured. Under international instruments, victims of terrorist acts are entitled to material, social, legal and psychological assistance. The federal government has also recognized the importance of victims in many ways, notably through the symbolic affirmation of the reflections of the parliamentary commission of inquiry on the attacks, and some legal and administrative reforms. As a reminder, the parliamentary committee of inquiry to examine the circumstances that led to the terrorist attacks of 22 March 2016 at the Brussels-National airport and at the Maelbeek metro station in Brussels had made some recommendations regarding the problem of victims. This included the payment of advance payments to victims who can be compensated by insurance, as well as the organization of a single, enforceable medical expertise, with a view to considerably speeding up the reimbursement process. To this end, the government decided to entrust the task force with the task of developing a system to speed up compensation, working with the Ministers of Justice, Economy, Public Health and Finance. Recommendations for the single medical expertise would be incorporated into the recommendations. However, to date, the implementation of a rapid reimbursement system to compensate victims whose lives have been irrevocably affected by injuries and trauma has not yet been effective, which is regrettable. I hear that steps will be taken to reduce the cumbersomeness of the insurance payment system, which requires constant negotiations and ongoing assessment processes for victims. In view of the above, can you elaborate on these measures? To this end, are specific measures planned for victims with less economic means, and those with long-term and long-term injuries? If so, which ones? What steps will be taken to address the lack of prompt and equitable remedies for victims who wish to challenge the disability or disability assessment in the current assessment processes? Can you confirm that post-traumatic syndrome and psychological injury as direct medical consequences of terrorist attacks have been recognized as grounds for insurance compensation? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic053x.u11	Madam and Mr Ministers, thank you for your explanation. Let me return for a moment to the compensation fund, already mentioned by my colleagues. The commission of inquiry had recommended that the French model should be taken into account. On the contrary, Minister Peeters wanted to establish a cascading compensation system. What decision have you finally taken on this? Has the recommendation to create this fund been properly reviewed by the government? What concrete steps does this imply? I would also like to go back to the unique expertise, which my colleagues have mentioned extensively. The victims explained how painful it was to have to answer the same questions temporarily and continually to bring the same evidence. That is why the Committee of Inquiry had made the recommendation of a single expert. Do you accept that this recommendation has not been taken into consideration? If so, why? With regard to the disability rate which gives entitlement to the compensation pension, many questions persist. The demand for the removal of this 10% floor is painfully felt by the victims. On the other hand, one of them contacted us and reminded us of the 1930 law that covered war invalids up to 300%. She regretted that the victims of the attacks were denied such compensation, although they suffered at least similar damage and sequelae. Is this problem still being addressed by your services?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic053x.u12	Madam President, Minister, Minister, not all the recommendations concerning the victims of the parliamentary committee of inquiry have been implemented, but many steps have already been taken in the right direction. Madam Minister, Minister, it is a credit to the victims that, despite all they have endured, they still have to endure and respect our work, even though they pointed out at the commemoration ceremony in the second half of August 2019 when we had the opportunity to speak to several of them, rightly to what has not yet happened. May I briefly express some experience with the single point of contact and the reference person I heard at the time? Firstly, it is a blur in civil law, criminal law, tax law and social law, with social security implications, in order to obtain compensation in the context of terrorism, a common crime or any other framework. The combination makes the case extremely complex. During the Committee of Inquiry and later on of victims, we heard that Mr Lauwers of the Commission on Financial Aid to Victims of Intentional Violence was doing titanic work in the care of victims. Well, can we not structurally anchor the reference persons you mentioned, Minister, in that committee in one way or another? After all, it has a great deal to do with victims and has a great deal of expertise on compensation for victims. Thanks to Mr Lauwers' expertise and qualities, the transfer of his know-how to the persons in charge of the files would make it possible to act as efficiently as possible. Secondly, the issue of inheritance taxes has not been resolved and cannot be resolved at federal level either. The regions are competent in matters of inheritance tax. The essence of the story is that we must prevent victims from having to prefinance their inheritance rights without any compensation. It seems logical to me that we should convince the Regions that, if they consider that they have to claim the rights and do not want to reduce them to zero, they should claim them in delayed relays. I think taxation is part of the damage. If victims have to pay taxes on the compensation they receive, which is only a compensation for the damage they have suffered, then that also seems to me to be part of the damage and therefore eligible for compensation. We must clarify this and, if necessary, inform the insurers and the victims accordingly. One aspect that has been repeatedly raised, just now by a colleague, concerns the single expertise. I have often been called upon to do so, as have many of my fellow Members. Of course, we can establish a legislative framework for insurers, but I do not think that is enough. More is needed, because terrorism is certainly about multi-traumas. We have a great deal of expertise in orthopedics or other physical injuries in our country, and specialist doctors can very well estimate the damage in that connection, which they can precisely specify. That's a little less the case with psychological injuries. This was also apparent from our poignant conversations with victims who could have physically taken a phenomenal step forward, but testified to the problems they experienced as a result of post-traumatic stress syndrome. So we heard the story of a victim who was confronted with misunderstandings about his employer, the federal government. I understand that not every psychologist or psychiatrist in our country has experience in the assessment of post-traumatic stress syndrome, which is obviously applicable here and in many cases, and we should be able to respond very appropriately to it, always with the question of how best to help victims and how best to compensate for the irreparable damage in the most appropriate and complete way. I understand that there is more experience of this in countries with more historical experience of terrorism than Belgium, such as Spain and France. I can also imagine that Israel has more experience. How can we obtain the expertise that is present and to a lesser extent present in our country? How can we, if necessary, draw on the expertise available there? We can ask you to assist us. Can they come here to ensure the transfer of knowledge so that we too, who have had less experience of terrorism in the past, can build up knowledge so that we can assist the victims? Finally, Madam President, I have one small suggestion. One of the recommendations deals with the problem of the disability threshold, with the magical limit of 10%. Each border is arbitrary. When you're just under it, every border feels unfair. Madam Secretary, I understand that at the time your cabinet made a promise that each victim would receive 10%. You shake no; it is what was reported to me, I say no more than that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic053x.u13	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic053x.u14	Madam Secretary, if that is not the case, then so be it. However, this is without prejudice to the fact that every border that is just underneath is seen as unfair for a piece. Subjectively, I can understand that. Can we not change the regulations in this area? My inspiration for this comes from the Accidents Act. In fact, even 1% or 2% of accidents at work is recognised as an invalidity rate. I know that this has budgetary implications, but in the accident at work law those budgetary consequences have been mitigated, with a threshold of 5%, a next threshold of 10% and finally a threshold of 15%. There are three discs and at a lower percentage one is slightly less eligible for a fee. But they still receive compensation and, above all, they get recognition. This is important for the victims, namely that they receive recognition in this respect. And it may be that the fee will be slightly lower. Can there be a solution to this problem in the field?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic053x.u15	Madam President, I would like to apologize for my late arrival, but I was on another committee. I believe that everything I wanted to say has already been said by colleagues. I can therefore be very brief. I think we have all taken note of the interim report on the state of implementation of the various recommendations of our committee of inquiry. There were still a lot of comments to make, including on the chapter on victims. I assume that most of the comments have already been made effectively. Last week we were able to do the same to the Minister of Justice about the lack of recognition of representative victim associations. I am particularly looking forward to the answers to the questions that have already been asked. I certainly will not ask the same questions for the fifth time, Mrs De Block.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic053x.u16	Mr Dallemagne, we have reached a comprehensive agreement on the Single Window. The road map is almost ready. From now on, the Communities make available reference persons for victims of attacks in Belgium and abroad. It is true that the inter-federal structure of our country does not promote speed. Nevertheless, significant progress has been made. Subrogation for financial assistance is possible up to EUR 125 000. This is quite possible vis-à-vis insurers. The exchange we have today is extremely useful as ministers are faced with deadlines, which can be beneficial. I have repeatedly said that the great problem for the Belgian Government is whether terrorism is a source of special responsibility for the State in relation to the victims of other types of accidents. We have gradually changed our shoulder rifle in the direction of exceptions to the rule of equal treatment vis-à-vis other victims because we have incorporated into our reasoning the idea that an attack is also directed against the State and is therefore more risky than any other type of accident. I repeated yesterday in front of Belgian victims of an attack abroad that this is not something that we will necessarily emphasize when we talk with parents of children who were killed in a road accident. These parents of children killed on the road also meet from time to time to welcome men and women politicians. Some in the room can testify. So we're on a delicate terrain. Every time you ask me these questions, I think that what we've done is right, that the direction we're moving towards is the right one, but we still have to take into account the fact that we're gradually going out of the "victim" of an accident. The assurance, which I always call mandatory - it is not the right term but you understand what I mean - in the case of terrorism and which we invented in this country in 2007, which does not exist anywhere in the world, was perhaps not the right path to take. But we took it in 2007. I am not someone - I repeat, because you also repeat certain things from time to time and some of you are new to this problem - who, in the midst of a crisis, is not following the path of continuity. The same applies to the pension that is granted. It is also a path that we opened at some point because it already existed. Reinventing the world in the midst of a crisis is not an option that works well. At the same time, we recognize, with all the humility we need also with regard to the victims, that our inter-federal approach has not been perfect and that there is a lot of room for improvement - to use a more evocative term in English. The subrogation, for example, has been improved vis-à-vis insurers because of the fact that we wanted to do better in these attacks. The same applies to associations. I promised you at a previous meeting that we were going to create a legal framework to accept them, which we did; that we were going to accept them, which we are doing. I still hope to be able to sign this month, if not this week, the royal decree that recognizes one of the associations. Their possibility of intervening as a civil party is described. You know that, during the previous legislature, there was innovation in relation to the defence of collective interests in judicial legislation. The application of article 17 of the Judicial Code has been innovated. So it's up to the associations to find their way. But once again, remember that there are also associations of parents of children who were killed in a road accident and that there are also associations of other types of victims! Without wanting to be paternalistic, it would be opportune to talk more about the victims instead of the sacrosanct rights of defence and other things. I've met a lot of victims, whose children have been murdered. Parents from the '70s and '80s came and told me, in a group, "Mr. Minister, this is not the place where we want to be heard." Is this another case? I know very well, ma'am, but after three years, maybe it's time to say it. It is always said that, in the world of victims, only victims of terrorism exist. I respect them very much; they know that. I get them when they ask me, every time they do. But when we talk to foreign colleagues, the French speak of a special status, without exception. I'm not saying they didn't do the right thing. But in the north of Europe they say the opposite; in the east of Europe they say the opposite. We are going in the direction of a special, exceptional status. The next government will be what it will be. Maybe I'm also talking because I won't be here, or I'm not talking to Justice. No one knows. But think about the question, if you need to go further in the direction of a special status. No one knows today whether there will still be terrorism. I'm just telling you this: when we were younger, there was a lot of terrorism in the 1970s and 1980s. We forgot about him 30 years later. We totally forgot it. But today I am invited to re-examine, for example, the killings of the Walloon Brabant and the status of the victims in this context. We've reopened their files to the extent possible, the cold cells. And that's good. Each time, we discover that there is more comparable than incomparable. And as soon as there is collectivisation, as soon as many victims see each other and say "We are victims of the same type of accident", we, you politicians, women politicians, become more alert. Individual victims are also victims. That's what I mean. They also deal with insurers, they also deal with my compensation commission, and from time to time they also have to wait for the judge's judgment much longer than they would like. That being said, as far as the civil party is concerned, we can obviously choose the path we want. I believe that many associations of victims and advocates of collective interests know music, as do many lawyers. We have discussed this with the victims' associations and we will certainly assist them more individually, as far as possible. What measures have been taken, Boukili asked, to meet the needs of the weaker victims? At this level, we had wonderful experiences with the Houses of Justice, the wellness centres in Flanders and their equivalent in Wallonia. Every time my office or victims referred to these bodies, they did a wonderful job. The main problem is how to inform victims of all that exists. Which window do they choose? It is for this reason that I stress that, from now on, there is the possibility of asking the Communities for reference persons, for example in Flanders within the Chambers of Justice and in the CAW (centra voor algemeen welzijnswerk, the centres for assisting people). We will do everything we can, when we are asked to do so, to send these people back to these bodies, also through our committee, our administration, as well as through public health. It is true that Mr Lauwers – and we can be proud to have civil servants like him – was, on his own, a one-stop shop for most victims, surrounding them in all the necessary ways. Notwithstanding his merits, he has far exceeded what could be expected of a single individual. He did the work of three, four people at a time, because of his personal qualities. It's remarkable, but it's also rare. We cannot count on everyone to be like him. That's not possible. We believe – and this is the result of the inter-federal task force – that everything that is at the psychosocial level and at the level of "nazorg" as it is said in Dutch (the care provided a posteriori), is also, in the first place, within the competence of the Communities. I leave the intervention of mutualities and INAMI in psychologist consultations on behalf of my colleague Mrs De Block. In any case, that is what we think and what the Communities have told us. In the right sense of the word, they are jealous of their skills! Mrs Kitir, I have no idea about the exact number of jobs. That's not exactly my problem either, as far as I'm concerned. As far as psychic aftercare is concerned, I refer to Mr De Block. With regard to the guarantee fund, all royal decisions have been taken with regard to Justice. It is probably true, Mrs Rohonyi, that not all the working groups were able to achieve a result. Success hasn't always been on the table, and we're sorry. To some extent, secondary victimization has occurred. Let me tell you that for the reference persons that we are going to appoint, for any representative of a CPAS, for every member of the federal prosecutor's office, in short for anyone who wants to go beyond, as they say in English, the world is not obvious. In this regard, I will tell you about a personal experience that struck me strongly shortly after the attacks, as "young" Minister of Justice – I mean that I have only been in this position for fifteen months at that time. Of course, I wanted to meet as many victims as possible in the early hours that followed, as I wanted to attend all the funerals. I was forbidden, saying, "People refuse." In this kind of situation, being a policy is worse than anything – and I understand it, it is a notion that I have incorporated. But I found that when these people came to you, they said: "Mr. Minister, you left us alone. We didn't meet you. Where have you been?" Then the conversation resumes. In general, there are two men or a man and a woman who discover another empathetic being. This is also a major problem for all aid services. Even yesterday, they testified regretting that doors are closing. Of course, some are closed, but others are opening. Thus, in the event of a further attack, within 48 hours, a reference person is planned. This measure is interesting, but it is not certain that the door will open. Yesterday, some people said they wanted to be kissed. Others did not want to do so or, in any case, not at that time. Therefore, do not underestimate the human qualities that must be provided to first approach people when they are not necessarily open to a meeting. To give you an example, reception at the airport is important but it is not obvious. If it is provided only by the Red Cross, it is obviously not right, but if it is the minister himself, it is not necessarily right either. Therefore, the balance between empathy and recovery must always be found. This applies to each service. For non-resident victims, we have done a maximum but once again we have necessarily been incompetent. When an attack takes place in Istanbul, a trial is held in Istanbul against the person who committed the attack. How should a country ensure that the persons in question feel adequately assisted at the consular and judicial level? Finally, the Belgian State was a civil party in the trial in Istanbul, precisely so that there could be solidarity. We're not sure it'll make a big difference in the trial. The victims and we are well aware of that. But in every country, we are asked to write a manual. We're developing the idea. But we can't do that for every single attack. Tunis is not Stockholm, and Stockholm is not Istanbul. In order for a family returning from New York to know how to do it simply by consulting such a manual, it is not possible. By the very nature of our country, whose aid structure is complex at the judicial and international level, and by the nature of things, our country is incompetent in relation to some of these events. It depends on the people. People need to be helped by the structures. And they don't necessarily help them, we all know that. However, a person can make a world of difference. We're talking a lot about Olivier Lauwers, everyone knows him today. There are many more. That kind of hero makes a difference. The deadline for the judicial case is three years. Victims will be contacted - to the extent they are known - to apply for financial assistance. I'm not sure I answered all the questions. I've answered most of the questions, I think. But there will be a second round, I assume, and I will return to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic053x.u17	Mr Dallemagne, you had questions about a single expertise. On 12 February 2018, a Memorandum of Understanding was signed between Medex and Assuralia on the principle of a single examination. An agreement was also signed with Ethias and Amlin. On this occasion, technical discussions took place as this involves an exchange of data, which is why the role of the GDPR is also important. It is true that Medex's expertise is not enforceable against insurance companies. In short, the law must be amended by the Minister of Economy. Yesterday, Assuralia said that proposals were being made, but it was not possible to implement this legislative amendment. The agreement is therefore not executable. In the meantime, efforts have been made, if possible, to organize the examination on the same day and in the same place. Medex has also carried out an expert study for the Directorate-General for Persons with Disabilities for the victims of 22 March in cases where there is a double application. That does not require two investigations. Even in the case of a victim of an accident at work, for whom Medex is competent, one file, one expert study on accidents at work and the status of solidarity has been carried out. We have been able to deal with such matters without any legal adjustments. The files are shared with the insurance companies in order to prevent the victim from having to explain everything again. We have been able to do this without the legal amendment. It would indeed be better if we could go further in that direction, but it is not possible so far. I'm going to the disability rate. All victims are granted status, regardless of their degree of disability. Since the Minister of Pensions has been competent to amend the Law of 18 July 2017 only since June 2018, I would also like to take over the historical arguments of the choice to grant only a recovery pension to the victims in respect of whom an disability rate of 10% or more was recognised due to their human damage. The government shows recognition to the victims by granting them the status of national solidarity. It is particularly in that statute that moral and national recognition must be seen. All medical care is also paid in full for people with less than 10 % disability. I do not know why I have heard here four times that in my cabinet it would have been promised that it would be possible for people with less than 10% disability. We knew it was impossible. The abolition of the 10% threshold was not part of the parliamentary recommendations, was already discussed in Parliament at the time of the adoption of the Act on 18 July 2017 and was also discussed several times in the contacts with the victim associations. One says that it was clear that the pension required a minimum amount of damage. The others say the opposite. The follow-up note should therefore also be nuanced on this point. This problem was raised at the time of the vote of the law, but also through a parliamentary question. You remember that, Mr Dallemagne, you were the animal. In the Law of 18 July 2017, the policy line was that compensation can be used for civilian victims, as the philosophy and compensation for damages are very similar. These baremas were also increased by 20% for this purpose. A minimum of 10 % of damage is required to have access to the lifelong pension. What would be the impact, should we abolish the minimum of 10 %? This means that all people present at the airport or on the metro, who have not been injured or involved, could have an interest in applying for the status to have access to this pension. Today it concerns 176 people with a percentage less than 10%. Then, for example, it's people who say they have nightmares and that's all. In concrete terms, this means that a person with an invalidity rate of 1% would receive a life-long pension, just like a victim with an invalidity rate of more than 10%. If this is done for the victims of attacks, it is logical that this should also be done for the military. That's around 30,000 right now. The same applies to the civilian victims, and that is 5,000. For the military victims, it has historically grown to the extent that disability rates differ from those for civilian victims. We must not confuse these two legislations on compensation pensions. It concerns, on the one hand, the coordinated laws on military pensions of 1948, i.e. after the Second World War, which grant disability rates higher than 100 %. Compensation pensions must repair the damage suffered by victims during the performance of their military obligations. The basis of these two laws is completely different, leading to different laws and fees. It is true that certain exceptional cases in compensation pensions can reach a maximum of 300 %, but these are severely mutilated and war invalids, such as those political prisoners who enjoy the presumption of accountability to their imprisonment of all alleged diseases. In other words, even if they are now developing, after all these years, a form of cancer, which is also being compensated for because people think that this was the basis for it. We cannot possibly allocate 300 % to civilian victims or victims of these attacks. Mrs Kitir asked about the number of applications and recognitions. We've received 979 applications. Of these, 42 files are still in progress. They're 622 direct victims. Belgians can be among them, but also foreign residents. There are also 313 indirect victims and 44 people with derived rights. As far as the degree of invalidity is concerned, the number of decisions of less than 10 % invalidity is 210, the number of people receiving recognition between 10 and 15 % invalidity is 224 and the number of people with an invalidity rate of more than 50 % is 21. Those are the figures we have at our disposal. Mrs Kitir, the figures of those who are still working and who are not are not with me. I come to Mrs Rohonyi's question: as far as we are concerned, these working groups have always continued. I have no knowledge of working groups that are yet to start. We cannot now make any legal adjustments. We're a government in ongoing business. We can listen and examine everything, but we cannot make any legal adjustments now. That was confirmed today at the Conference of Presidents. We are asked to do certain things, but we are both in the same boat. We are both ministers in current affairs and we cannot issue new legal provisions. We're both doing what we can.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic053x.u18	That's true.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic053x.u19	There was indeed a letter from Medex. It was a letter that wasn't really clear. The president of Life4Brussels, Mrs Adda, contacted us personally because she had seen this abnormal letter. We have therefore taken immediate action and this has been resolved. The procedure to be initiated must be comparable for people who live here and for people who live abroad. Medical expertise can be substantiated on the basis of medical documents and the reimbursement for the care is then sent directly to the Auxiliairekas. Last week, Medex sent a new letter to the victims who are not residents of Belgium. There was no difference between Belgian and foreign residents. It's a bit of a shame, but they've been given the choice. Can conclusions be made from medical certificates? Should we organize expertise with Foreign Affairs and embassies? Or do you prefer to come to Belgium to make the expertise. The choice belongs to them. This misunderstanding, this awkwardness was quickly rectified because Mrs Adda told us the problem. As for psychological assistance and the training of experts in post-traumatic stressors specifically for children, this needs to be analysed by the competent administrations according to their missions, namely the Public Health FPS, CAAMI, but also the federated entities which are responsible among other things for training and post-acute follow-up. Mr Verherstraeten said that we do not have sufficient expertise. Now I do not know whether it is an advantage for Spain and France to have more expertise, as these countries have already experienced a lot, but it is true that we need to maintain and develop the expertise in our country. We now know that we need that expertise in the house. We have a large army of psychologists, but not at all to trauma psychologists, because of the limited experience in this area. It's a separate subject. For the recognition of post-traumatic syndrome, for example, I think there is also a need for some expertise. As with doctors, there are specialties among psychologists. Yesterday it was suggested that lists should be drawn up in cooperation with the Communities, for example together with the CAWs, and that they should be made available so that, for example, the treating general practitioner can check which psychologists have this expertise. On 5 December an event will take place in connection with psychosocial networking, where the subject is also on the agenda. We hope that there will also be a dynamic there to get in touch with each other more. People with expertise from abroad may also be attracted. There was a question about the disputes. Internal appeals may be made to the appeal board for two aspects, the ministerial decision and the protocol on medical expertise of the Medical Service, as set out in the Ministerial Decision. Article 29 of the same law provides that an action may be brought before the labour court. There are currently 40 internal professions, 23 for the labour court and 25 mediation applications. The conciliation procedure has also been made possible by Recommendation No. 12 of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry. A conciliation procedure had to be laid down in a KB. It was amended on 22 April 2019 in response to comments from the Council of State and the Data Protection Authority. So that is what has been done. There was still a question about the training of doctors. It is true that this matter affects different levels of power. It has also been said that there are studies in children with whom we do not really have the necessary experience. Children are not just small people when it comes to expertise. They have yet to grow and develop. During their development, additional problems may arise. Rehabilitation is also much more difficult with a young child than with an older child. Some children had lost sight, from one day to the next they could no longer see. So there were special problems that we have to learn from. If something like this ever happens again, we all hope that it will not happen again, of course, the children must go to doctors who have the right skills and the right knowledge for children. At the event of 5 December, all those involved in helping the victims will be represented. The association V-Europe will present a project there. The experts in post-traumatic care can be listed there. Cooperation with countries with even more expertise will also be considered. For example, training can also be adapted. In order to acquire expertise, we must first get a good education. Work is never done. As I said yesterday, if we can make improvements, we are always prepared to do so. Although this is being made somewhat more difficult by the fact that we are in a period of ongoing business and are therefore unable to do new legislative work. However, we may one day get out of that and if the preparatory work has already been done, we can transfer it to our successors in a separate package.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic053x.u20	Madam President, Minister, Minister, first of all, I want to greet you. Indeed, you still have important responsibilities and you continue to work on this issue. It is important to follow up and do everything possible in the current context, what you are doing and what I thank you for. Mr. Minister of Justice, you made a presentation on victimization, explaining that it is sometimes difficult to provide specific treatment for victims of terrorism. I am fully aware of this difficulty. I am in contact with associations of parents of road victims, parents of murdered children, and I can only note that it is always difficult to establish differences. This is about a political and intellectual journey that has all its limits, but also all its virtues. We know that they are victims who have been affected without any discrimination with barbarism, the terror we know. In fact, it was about targeting each and every one of us through these victims. There was, therefore, a very special intention, a particular cruelty. I therefore believe that we are doing well to have special treatment, even if we should pay attention to all other cases of violence, assassinations and, above all, intentional acts of violence. In fact, in the context of our committee of inquiry, we have on several occasions expressed our wish for further reflection. However, you are doing well to have this discussion in which we all have to participate. You also talked about the need for empathy and the difficulty that is yours as a political leader. In my opinion, we must not hesitate. Victims know the difference between the desire for recovery and empathy. They know when there is partisan recovery and when they find themselves confronted with interlocutors who work and want to advance their cause. I therefore do not think that we should hesitate on this issue. It's always wrong not to show enough empathy. I allow myself this parenthesis because you mentioned the difficulty you are facing. It is often wrong not to show the empathy of politicians, politicians. I know how difficult this can sometimes be, but you have to be able to handle it. If you do your job properly, it will be understood. I now turn to the figures that some of us have asked for on several occasions. Madam President, it would be appropriate for our committee to receive these figures (even if we could not receive them), i.e. the number of direct victims, the number of indirect victims, the number of persons who have received national solidarity status, the number of persons with disabilities and incapacity for work, etc. I think it would be a good idea to have that figures available today. For our work, it is important to take stock of everything we know about statistics and figures. On the disability rate, I found the reflection of our colleague Verherstraeten very interesting. We can go by ratchets. It can be understood that for a person with only 5% disability, having access to a full pension could be disproportionate, but today it is getting everything or nothing. Perhaps consideration should be given to possible progressivity in this area. I am part of this reflection because we see this feeling of injustice. I believe that it can be corrected on the basis of other legislation and on the basis of your own thinking, minister, which I also understand. I think there is a way to find a different balance from today's. With regard to the differences between military and civilian personnel, you say that it is not within the framework of disability laws for military personnel. On this point, on the other hand, I am not following you. In my view, between a victim of terrorists and a military victim in the course of his or her duties, one can also consider a particular situation. I understand the victims. I am thinking in particular of Karen Northshield, whom we have received on several occasions. She was severely mutilated. She spent three years in the hospital. She was the last of the victims to leave the hospital. For people like her, whose lives are permanently and seriously damaged, who still struggle today against pain and all sorts of extremely painful things, one can imagine a status similar to that of the wounded soldiers. I would not understand why there would continue to be a difference between these victims. Finally, with regard to the lack of expertise, I hear your openness, Madam Minister, and I welcome it. I would like to stress, as some have mentioned, that there is a project of cooperation with Israeli experts. CAAMI would be willing to finance this cooperation project and is only waiting for your green light to launch this project. I invite you to look carefully at this project and, if possible, give it a quick green light. Indeed, there is a recognised expertise, a dedicated funding. So we could move on.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic053x.u21	Minister, Minister, thank you for your answers. Following what you said, I have a few remarks. Minister, you welcome the work of our front-line justice, and I fully agree with you on this. It's a remarkable job. We need to strengthen it. You know my opinion on this, because I have already spoken in this committee, in particular to strengthen front-line justice. In the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, there are only thirteen front-line justice institutions. I do not know the exact figure on the Dutch-speaking side, but I think the proportions should be similar. They all benefit from strengthening justice and making it as accessible as possible, given the important work it does for victims. In answer to my question, you have pointed out that the Communities are already doing a very good job. It's a very good thing and it's good to know. You said that the problem was mainly an information problem. Victims have no means of being informed of anything that can be done. In this context, there is an inter-federal task force. I'm making a suggestion. Has any consideration been given to setting up a toll-free telephone number that would give victims access to information in a timely and cost-free manner? The main problem being an information problem, this may be a way to address it. Mrs De Block, I wanted to ask you a question about disability. It was not really about the disability rate or the disability figures, but about people who question the percentage of disability they are granted. There is currently no rapid recourse structure to which persons who would question the percentage of disability granted to them can turn. What is planned in this regard? Indeed, it is well known that the disability rate also determines the income of the victims and can be significant. Once the victim has received an assessment with which he or she disagrees, is there a prompt and fair remedy for reviewing the assessment? Madam and Mr Ministers, I know very well that this is a very complicated task and that some things are very difficult to deal with on this issue. No one denies it in this commission. Nevertheless, our role is to highlight what needs to be improved, which is insufficient in this work. On 14 May 2019, for example, Philippe Vansteenkiste, president of the victims' association, who lost his sister in the attacks and who participated in the hearings of the parliamentary commission of inquiry, declared that Belgium was not ready to support the victims of terrorism. Following his visit to Belgium from 24 to 31 May 2018, the United Nations Special Rapporteur on counter-terrorism and human rights expressed deep concern about the daily experiences of victims in the areas of health care, employment and administration. In June 2018, the Follow-up Committee on Terrorist Attacks also criticized the lack of measures taken by the government. There are still gaps in the protection of victims. This has been known for months, but we can only see the slow pace with which the government is taking appropriate action. As I said, it is not obvious but a lot of work remains to be done at this level. Everything that has been done is largely insufficient to meet all the needs of these victims. Mr Minister, you said that terrorist attacks have the peculiarity of being attacks on the state and that these victims are unfortunately the price to pay. The State must take this very seriously. Reports point to the inadequacy of the measures put in place. They must be taken seriously, identified and addressed. This does not mean that nothing has been done, far from it. That's not my point. But we are still very insufficient in this respect. There is still a great deal to be done, as the various people I have mentioned have pointed out. I hope that the slow pace of implementation of the various measures will be remedied and that the needs of the victims will be met as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-13-55-commissie-ic053x.u22	If there are no further questions and if the two ministers have nothing more to add, then we can end our meeting here. Thank you for being here.
