ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u1	I am actually from the Committee on Justice, because I had asked you a question about double nationality. That's where I was told that that authority was in the Home Office. I thought that was a bit weird, because that's how I'm sent from the locker to the wall. In the case of dual nationality, I am thinking of asylum and migration. I'll be referred to the Justice Department. At Justice, I'm being referred back to Home Office. I will try to put the question again and still get an answer somewhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u2	As far as nationality law is concerned, everything you will find in the archives of the Chamber has been dealt with by the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u3	I will try further, and I hope I will find an answer here to the questions that had been put to you and remained here. The first concerns the European funds for migration. An important piece of puzzles, as you probably know, for the solution of the migration problem lies with Europe. Some parties put forward very short-sighted solutions, as they all put them on a boat and send them back, put them on a plane and send them back, build a dam around Belgium and re-introduce border controls. I think that anyone who thinks a little bit further knows that such measures are not possible. Moreover, much of the legislation is bound by European frameworks that we cannot go beyond. Even within the European framework, however, I note that very little is happening of what should happen, such as monitoring the border of the Schengen area. That is a task which should be carried out and which is not being carried out today, which means that there is a huge influx. Belgium as a country is the victim of an enormous influx because what should not happen internationally is not happening. That is why it seems logical to me that, as a competent minister, you should ask Europe to pay for the costs that have to be incurred. Within the same European and international legislation, Belgium is also responsible for the reception of asylum seekers. I therefore think it is fair that Europe should contribute. I would like you to give me an overview of the European support we are already receiving today for the reception and administration of asylum seekers. If you agree that Europe should participate, what initiatives have you taken to increase support for the effects of the migration crisis, which is mainly international.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u4	Mrs Van Camp, I agree with you that the key to an orderly and controlled migration policy lies primarily at the European level. Important steps need to be taken there. I believe that the European Union should further step up the fight against illegal migration by improving the enforcement of external borders and strengthening the reception of refugees in the region around conflict areas. Moreover, we are still a long way from a common and united European asylum system in which each Member State accepts its responsibility so that there is a better distribution of asylum seekers across the Member States. I note that we have continued to be keen on this point on the spot. I said that last week at the JAI, in Luxembourg. I came to this department in 2011 to 2014. I came back here at the end of 2018, and I see that no progress has yet been made, that everyone is sticking to their position, and that there is no dialogue. Solidarity is lacking and secondary migratory waves are not taken into account, of which Belgium and the surrounding countries are large recipients. We cannot continue to have a status quo for four or five years and to pass on the hot fries from one Commission President to another. Now there will be a new Commissioner. I'll be curious if it gets any speed. However, Europe is on the ground and this is felt in all the Member States. Moreover, this undermines the Schengen system. I also said clearly: 'Without Dublin there is no Schengen'. That seems to me to be a firm statement with which I wanted to throw the bat in the cowl in a way. I can therefore only continue to defend this position. Our country has been on this line for a number of years, and we are maintaining it in current cases as well. We continue to work for much-needed reform of the Dublin rules and support all efforts to break the current deadlock. You have also asked for a number of figures on the European funds that Belgium can use. For the period 2014 to 2020, a total amount of around EUR 35 million will be allocated to our country in the form of European grants. The most important sum of some 27 million euros - goes to Fedasil, the Commissioner-General gets 3.6 million euros and the Department of Foreign Affairs 3.8 million euros. These grants are mainly devoted to the optimisation and computerisation of the operation of asylum services. In addition, in 2015 there was a one-off emergency support of EUR 5 million to process asylum applications with the DVZ and the Commissioner-General. Finally, the European Union also grants grants in the context of relocation and resettlement. This goes from 6,000 euros to 10,000 euros per person, depending on the vulnerability of the person concerned. Belgium also receives a number of European funds to finance voluntary and forced return activities and projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u5	Mr President, Madam Minister, this is something, but of course it is quite inadequate when we look at how much resources we have to spend ourselves today. After all, Europe's culpable failure makes the Member States themselves responsible for the reception of so many asylum seekers. I therefore hope that the new Commissioner will provide solutions. We will continue to advocate at national, but also at European level, that Europe should take responsibility for better surveillance of external borders. As long as this does not happen, Europe must support the Member States in meeting the financial burden that this causes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u6	Madam Secretary, it took some time for the Committee on the Interior to meet. The reason for this question is already at the end of June, when it became known that the Brussels employment agency Actiris would help people without papers to get rid of some 20,700 vacancies. That plan met with great resistance and you have already expressed your opinion on it. After all, implementation of that plan largely amounts to collective regularisation, which in your view could not be the case. Madam Minister, I found your reaction somewhat strange, as your party has been involved in collective regulation in the past and has approved it. People were convicted of that. In the meantime, have you changed your point of view? If you are now opposed to collective regularization, what active steps will you take against proposals such as Actiris and will you never allow collective regularization?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u7	Mrs Van Camp, I did react immediately when Actiris announced the proposal to allow people without valid residence documents to take part in training courses and to give them priority, which was the top priority for the pursuit of a bottleneck job in our labour market. Indeed, I assume that providing work to people who are in illegality amounts to collective regularisation. The previous collective regularisation dates back to 2009. Then my party was indeed in the government and not your party. However, in the subsequent legislatures, we have always refused any possible subsequent collective regulation. I can therefore confirm that this is certainly a party position which, as far as I am concerned, is maintained. In my opinion, the fact that people without a residence permit can be given priority in the bottleneck vocational training system is unfair competition, as it puts people looking for work in the back of the queue. In addition, those who do not have valid residence documents in our country cannot work either. Those concerned must arrange their stay before they can start working. I thought Actiris was sending a very contradictory signal. I was all the more surprised because, despite the fact that Fedasil has been asking for many years to cooperate for persons who have been recognised as refugees, have obtained a residence permit and therefore need to be integrated, Actiris refuses to do so. However, there is no better integration than work and there is cooperation with Forem and the VDAB. This is good for those concerned, because they can get to work directly, for example, in jobs for which they do not always have to know the language, and then they can easily pay rent. I therefore felt that it was a punishment that Actiris did not want to talk about this and wanted to give priority to people without papers for training. After that, they backed off a bit: it would be just a thought exercise. I'm not asking who asked Actiris to think. Contact would be made, but there has been no demand for contact so far, not even from the Brussels-Capital Region. Negotiations have been held there and I have not found anything in the coalition agreement. There will certainly be a need for consultation. In any case, the priority for me is for recognised refugees to be able to move to the regular labour market at Fedasil and not the people without papers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u8	Madam Minister, we are very much in agreement on the latter. I didn't know Actiris didn't want to participate in that collaboration. This indeed makes the attitude of the institution even more scandalous. I'm glad you said it here. Your party participated in the collective regularisation of 2009. I am pleased that your position has changed since then. I hope that you, together with us, will stick to that position and that there will be no collective regulation, because that is a very serious injustice.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u9	Mr President, Minister, I have heard from the premises that the transit centre in Steenokkerzeel is facing a lower influx. It's about June data when I asked the question. Due to the lower influx of transmigrants, there are currently a number of inspectors, who are actually technically unemployed. I have the following questions, Madam Secretary. How much are the staff costs for the transit centre? Is it true that the inspectors have less work due to the lower influx? Would it not be better for them to be seconded in order, for example, to focus more on the repatriation of deported foreigners, because the outflow has fallen sharply? We have discussed in the Bossuyt Committee that the repatriation figures have fallen dramatically. By using part-time staff from the transit centre for repatriation, these figures may be raised. Furthermore, a ten-point plan on transmigration had been put on the table by the previous government. One part of it was an agreement with the UK. In view of the current situation, have you been able to take any further steps in this respect? The location of the transit centre is often a problem. Wouldn't it be more interesting to work with satellites per province or do you see other solutions to optimize the operation of the transit centre?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u10	Mrs Van Camp, as you know, the Transmigrender treatment centre is an administrative treatment centre integrated into the 127bis centre in Steenokkerzeel, but it is managed by the federal police. In order to better support police forces in police handling, the federal police have been offering mobile support on the ground since 1 July. My administration also provides support on the ground, for example in the case of planned actions. They've already been to the Maximilian Park and the North Station. This alternative approach means that the ACT does not have to be operational around the clock either. In the course of the month there will be an evaluation, both by the police and by the DVZ. When I started, there was already a low activity rate in the center. One of the reasons would indeed be that movements from certain provinces to Steenokkerzeel require a lot of time and police capacity. Regarding the consultation with the United Kingdom, discussions were held with British colleagues in February 2018 by my predecessor, Theo Francken. At the end of April this year, contacts were maintained with the British embassy in Belgium. However, it is important to emphasise that the negotiations are conducted at European level and that the consultations are registered at Member State level. We have discussions with the UK on various issues, and that is not always easy with the prevailing Brexitmania. There are diplomats who are difficult to obtain a mandate in the UK because of the ongoing discussions. However, we are doing our best to go further and we have always had good relations with the UK. Your suggestion to provide police treatment centres closer to the site, so providing support on the ground, can of course be discussed. However, as has been said, the Minister of the Interior, like me, is part of a government in current affairs. It is also important to match the expectations of the site to the local needs that are already greater in one province than in the other. In addition to an evaluation of the operation of the centres, I also asked Mr De Crem to have the alternative possibilities examined by the federal police. This will have consequences for them. The policy cells plan regular consultations on this subject and will be able to deliver a joint opinion. As regards the costs, the internal functioning and the impact on the organisation of the police framework, I believe that you should ask the questions to Mr De Crem. Until further notice, I'm not in charge of the police, and I'm not a requesting party for that either.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u11	Madam Minister, your answer is clear as far as your policy areas are concerned. I hope that the promised advice will come soon, so that the new government can take it into account. My proposal concerns a provincial satellite, but perhaps it would be better to spread it geographically according to the needs. Hopefully, the advice will come soon so that the new government can take it into account and there will be a more efficient establishment of the transit centres.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u12	Madam Minister, your party's website says that you want to focus more on active migration, because countries that are more committed to active migration are better equipped to meet the challenges of the future. Your party also states that we should therefore be more selective and more active rather than passive migration. The figures today do not really reflect that view. Policy-wise, however, there are possibilities, for example with the system of the blue card. Can't be deployed on that system anymore? Why isn't that happening today? If I am not mistaken, there is still three-fourths of passive migration today. We must admit that the figures for active migration have not increased in recent years. Perhaps the percentage of active migration via the Bluecard system or otherwise can be improved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u13	Mrs Van Camp, I have always argued in favour of the blue card and I have done a great deal of work to get the legislation adopted in this area. We do need active labour migration. I do not need to remind you how I advocated that persons with scientific training as experts for the Knowledge Centre or for the Agency should be asked to make a temporary contribution in our country and vice versa. We do need talented people and people who can add value to our economic fabric. They don't always have to be highly skilled. They could also be low-skilled. Think, for example, of care workers, to whom we have a shortage. So I am certainly prepared to make a number of proposals on this subject, but I cannot do that during this period of current cases. What can I do? I can work with the Länder to facilitate cooperation for the permis unique. I have already taken steps, because things have been very difficult. After all, we have to have a job first and only then can we get a residence permit. There is a long lead time due to the complex permis unique system and the great amount of work required by the system for DVZ and the Länder. Well, we have made efforts to keep the procedure as short as possible so that it can be done as quickly as possible for foreigners who can fill a vacancy here and they can obtain a residence permit here. The Länder have a great responsibility there. They are responsible for the rules on access to the labour market for foreign workers and can have a very active policy in this area. In Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels, there are all new ministers responsible for Work. In Brussels, I think there are even a few competent for work. I have made the first contacts with these new ministers this week, among other things, for other areas of competence, such as health. We must keep the process, whereby foreigners submit their application for the single permit to the Land with proof from the employer that they have work, as short as possible, so that they can easily come here, with the necessary checks and balances. We have already worked hard on the procedure and have been able to make many improvements. There was a big backlog there when I started, and we're getting rid of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u14	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. When we look at countries, such as Canada, where much more is being devoted to active labour migration, where there is active recruitment in other countries to address identified labour shortages, and where the population is much more positive towards migration, which is, of course, directly linked to the other relationship between passive and active migration, I think we still have a lot of work ahead of us. Finally, I do not agree with your statement on concern. I think that the shortages in the healthcare sector have been caused by the very poor working conditions. We have talked about this very often in committee. I absolutely do not see it as a solution to bring care workers from other countries here. As I have said before, I think they will be looking forward to their job in the healthcare sector as soon as support does not improve there.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u15	Madam Minister, in September, the Défi Group asked you in plenary about Belgium's attitude towards the plan for the distribution of migrants, an agreement between five European states. There was a European Council on 8 October on this subject, to which you represented Belgium. We have learned from the press that you have decided not to take an attitude and not to join the group of States wishing to reach an agreement. You know the case and you know that it is a real problem for Europe not to have a common attitude in this area. A number of states "cash" much more the arrival of migrants, which leads to the development of populism and extremism. It is important that we be able to take an active part in this agreement. I have heard the reason you have given me, that the government is in business and that you do not have a mandate to take an attitude. This argument does not convince me because, during the previous legislature, a full-function government had decided to relocate 3,812 people to Belgium. In fact, however, he has relocated only 1,169 of them. This decision could therefore be used to relocate the difference of 2,643 individuals under the new mechanism. In addition, the argument of day-to-day affairs can be overcome by the adoption by the House of a resolution that I have tabled. It will soon be on the agenda of the Committee on the Interior. This resolution invites you to support this pre-agreement. Madam Minister, should this resolution – with a clear mandate – be adopted, could you allow Belgium to join the agreement reached between the various European states?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u16	Mrs De Block, I would indeed like to return to the Malta Agreement. This is the Italian Government's initiative to call for solidarity from a number of European countries to assist them in the reception of migrants rescued at sea. Some European support is being sought for this. A number of European countries have already joined the initiative. It seems important to the Ecolo-Green Group to do so because it would show solidarity and support for that new political position of the Italian Government. This is a humane position, but also interesting to follow and assist. I would like to ask you about your position on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, these arrangements of the Malta Agreement are temporary. They would offer an alternative to the current situation when a front-line Member State – for example Italy or Malta – refuses to allow the boat of an NGO that rescued migrants at sea to land. The aim of these arrangements is to provide a temporary framework, even if the principle remains the voluntary participation of Member States in landing operations in European ports as long as the reform of the Dublin Regulation – which has been discussed for eight years and which is currently at a standstill – is brought to light. Discussions on a temporary mechanism began in 2018. This idea of finding solutions outside the framework of the Dublin Regulation reform in the form of temporary arrangements was also put forward by the European Commission at the end of 2018. This proposal has been discussed within the European Union at different levels but without much results. Indeed, at last week's European Council in Luxembourg, Italy, Malta, Germany and France took the initiative to discuss the establishment of such a temporary system. On 23 September there was a limited meeting in Malta where Italy, Malta, Germany and France, together with the Finnish Presidency and the European Commissioner for Migration, were able to reach an agreement. This agreement was proposed to the Ministers for the Interior or the Ministers for Asylum and Migration of the Member States on 8 October. It is only the Mediterranean zone, in particular the boats of the NGOs that are there. It would also be a voluntary relocation in the participating countries. Depending on the number of people on such a boat, one could say how many people one is willing to take in. Apart from the signatories, I can tell you that there was a lack of enthusiasm. Only Luxembourg and Portugal have committed themselves to participating in the temporary mechanism. For the rest, the fate of the Dublin Regulation – which is an integral part of the Asylum Package – lies in the hands of the new Commissioners responsible for these matters, who will have to set the way forward and find new compromises on this issue that has been outstanding since 2017. We have said that cooperation is a good first step. There can be a willingness to do so. There weren't even ten countries yet. We were one of the countries that saw this as a positive step forward, but given the oversatisfaction of our network for the reception of asylum seekers and the fact that we are in current affairs, we cannot take a new position. However, it is a positive step for us that countries are prepared to show some solidarity. I also said that solidarity goes beyond that. There must also be solidarity with the countries experiencing the secondary wave of migration. We have people who have already been given asylum here. There are people who are recognised refugees in other countries. They spend five to ten years in other countries and then come here. There are also people who are quickly recognised in another country and then come here by plane. Together with the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Germany and France, we have been hit by the secondary migratory wave. For this, responsibility must also be assumed by countries at the external borders. There must also be solidarity with countries that groan under secondary migration, as we do. I've been gone a few years. I came here in 2011. Dublin was very topical at the time. The treaty had to be revised. We are not equipped with that treaty enough to offer a mutually supportive solution to these waves. I left in 2014. I came back in 2018. At that time, there was still the same discussion. Unfortunately, I have a good memory. I sat there and heard exactly the same thing, although with new people because I'm already an old crocodile there. So nothing has changed in the discussion. It will be transferred from Presidency to Presidency. Now there is a new European Commissioner. I've already seen him. He looks like a man who knows what it's about. It's a Greek. So far little has come out of that. We have already applied for the Lifeline action in the summer of 2018. We have also been involved in ad hoc operations aimed at relocating some 15 Sudanese prisoners in Malta. So there are also the secondary movements and the great influx that we are currently seeing in a number of countries. We have long advocated a structural response to the migration challenge. I am thinking in particular of a reform of the common European system in the field of asylum. However, as measures have continued to pile up, everything is blocked. An open discussion is needed, first of all on Dublin. For the rest, Mrs. Matz, you confuse relocation with relocation. The resettlement is a commitment we make to UNHCR, which has nothing to do with what you mentioned, Mrs Matz. These are camps in which recognised refugees are present. We're dealing with resettlement. To this end, Europe has signed up in solidarity and we are taking part in it. My predecessor temporarily stopped that resolution. In December 2018, I took over the department. In January and February 2019, I said that it is not possible to stop resettlement, as it concerns international commitments to which our country has committed itself. Those concerned have already been informed in the reception camps that they will be coming to Belgium, which must be carried out in such a way, and we have resumed that settlement. These actions are still ongoing. So we have not had a settlement for a certain period of time and we are still catching up. We must also bear in mind that Fedasil must have places if we are to bring those people here. Finding additional places is currently a challenge. It is not always easy to convince local residents, let alone politicians, of the need for temporary additional shelter in our country. Solidarity also goes hand in hand with responsibility in the European Union. For me, this solidarity means that there must be a distribution mechanism between the Member States to provide reception in the event of mass influx. There must be solidarity with the border countries. We are already in favour of this. For example, we have given a great deal of extra resources and we are still sending staff to the border countries to improve procedures. So we are really doing our best in that. However, solidarity must also be directed towards us because we are to a large extent faced with secondary migratory waves. I hope we can talk about this as adults. However, there is a lamentation every time a boat with refugees arrives. People are coming over land, too. Malta has been mentioned here, but we have many more people on the Eastern European route. At the Turkish border, 3.5 million people are ready to come to Europe. We can't let people drown or just send the boats back. It needs to be looked at as a whole, and I think that is the right attitude. I have said this in so many words, and I have also received the necessary support from a number of countries. However, it is always the same countries that complain that they are the first to receive the passengers. Geographically, a number of countries such as Cyprus and Malta are in an unfortunate place, but this also applies to our country. After all, we get the people who want to cross to England on our territory. Many think that through our country one can get to England the fastest. So we too are, in a way, the victims of our geographical position. We can change a lot, but not our location on the map of the world. All the countries of the European Union can show greater solidarity and take more responsibility. I wonder, Mr De Vriendt, whether it will be before my time. You're a little younger and I hope you'll be able to see it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u18	Madam Minister, thank you for that clarification. I know it won't make you happy, but I still want to tell you that it's a little bit of the snake that bites its tail. The reason for refusing to enter into this specific agreement is that of current affairs, and the first reason you have cited is that of the saturation of the network, which will be the subject of the following oral questions. Now, it's the government itself – you're going to tell me it's the past, but in the meantime, you were also a member of this government! – who saturated the network by deciding to dismantle certain seats. And now you're telling us we won't be able to welcome them. The snake bites its tail! Objectively, I cannot accept that. I hear very well your arguments about our geographical position, which means that it is not by boat but by other means that we have to take care of a certain number of people. It is also known that those who arrive by boat are in extremely serious humanitarian situations and that sometimes these boats remain in the Mediterranean for several days not knowing where to land. The minimum that Belgium can do, perhaps to a lesser extent because, precisely, Belgium and other states that you have cited have a geographical situation which means that refugees arrive on routes other than sea lanes, is to give a positive signal on a European agreement. You're saying that some people act with their lips. In France, we are still not in a geographically very different state from ours and I do not think that France is a state with open borders! It is a state with a reasonable policy. This agreement was reached in particular on the initiative of France. I really think that Belgium should be part of this agreement, to a degree that is obviously proportional and moderate in relation to its capabilities. In any case, I cannot hear that the capacity of the network means that you are no longer hosting refugees. It is the government, through you, that has decided to dismantle seats. So that's not an argument. You just want to mean that there aren't enough seats in our house. The idea was that the network would be dismantled to ensure that no agreement was reached. I find this regrettable, especially when you argue with the press that it is the problem of day-to-day affairs that concerns you the most. You just answered by saying that the problem lay in the capacity of the network. We'll have a chance to come back in a few minutes. We will examine the motion for a resolution that I have tabled and we will see what Parliament will decide on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u19	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I'm sure you're still young enough to see it yourself. I think we really need to look at this and consider our country's participation. I have heard many comments from you and a number of reservations and contexts, but I also hear you say that we can continue the discussion and that it needs to be looked at globally. For us, the political aspect is also important. Belgium has been one of the countries in Europe that has opposed or complained about a number of recent positions of the previous Italian government when it comes to migration. A lack of humanitarian reflex, so to speak. The new Italian Government wants to do things differently and is counting on solidarity and assistance from other European countries. This must go in all directions, of course, but I think that the political consideration of not abandoning Italy with the change of course that is now being considered is important to take into account in the overall discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u20	Mrs. Matz, I didn't close the door. However, to tell me that in day-to-day affairs, I should make decisions such as welcoming a number of additional refugees, that is impossible! Our network is saturated at 96% and I would remind you that the government is in day-to-day business. That would be to send people back to the streets. If we are now committed to including people from these boats here, then we must also decide who we are going to take out. We do everything we can to make places. I invite you: find me some places, find me some mayors who are willing to barrack 100 to 150 asylum seekers on their territory. Find them, and we'll be way ahead of you. But there is no solution. I did not close the door, as Mr De Vriendt says. This is a positive step, because it is a greater solidarity between Member States. I did say that we cannot now decide how many people we are prepared to accept. That's for the next few months, if we have a government. I don't know what month or year it will be in. I haven't fooled people. I'm telling you the truth. If you promise something, you have to do it. I'm not gonna promise anything if I'm not covered by a government in full jurisdiction, I won't. This is well known in the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u21	I understand the reasons for the network's saturation and the difficulty, sometimes within the municipalities, of putting solutions in place; but at some point there was a network and it was dismantled. This network had been set up in collaboration with... it's not that old, minister! In 2018, a decision was made...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u22	But it's not up to me! When I left my duties, there were buffers and a network in a really... It was a really quiet phase. At the end of 2018 I came back and there was a huge saturation in the network. All the individual places were full. [[We had to go back to the streets and look.]] Don't tell me there were ever more places. Yeah, that's right. But what do I buy for that? Nothing. One must look forward and not back. There were reasons for me, when things got quieter in the shelter network, to shut down. As the influx grew again, it was thought that it would fall back. That didn't happen. The influx continues to rise and we must therefore move forward. Each time one comes up with that little straw that there were ever more places. I know that. I also finished in 2014. And in 2015, there was a new asylum crisis. That's the way it is. We don't keep thousands of places, which cost a lot of money, at our disposal if there are no people. Be a little realistic!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u23	I hear everything you say, but there has been – no matter what, we will not go back to history – a government, at some point, that has decided to reduce the number of seats, and to keep buffer places, in insufficient numbers. I know it costs too. It's been a few months or even years. Even at the time, when the places were closed, some NGOs drew attention to the fact that it was a very temporary lull and that it would soon be necessary to reopen places. When you started working, you took steps to increase this network. You're saying Dublin, we've heard about it since you've been here. We all agree that Dublin needs to be amended and more objective criteria must be found, so that the system is much more flexible, because at the moment it is not right. Hence the need for a temporary agreement. Because if we wait... you say it yourself, ten years ago we talked about Dublin. There is an urgent need for temporary agreements with Europe and other European states. I can hear your position. Unfortunately, you inherit the consequences of a policy that you have not pursued. But still, your party was in the government whose politics it was. Why didn't we have this policy stopped? That's another question. I understand that you are trying to take the necessary measures for a whole series of provisions, but it remains that Belgium must give a signal. We will try to give you this signal through Parliament, so that you have a comfortable mandate, since there is no government and we do not know when there will be one.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u24	I believe that the debate on the reception points will be resumed later this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u25	Madam Minister, the European Union would be about to conclude an agreement with Rwanda to deal with evacuated migrants from Libya. The country would initially receive 500 migrants. The theory is that migrants and refugees could be re-established and that from there the return of other migrants to the country of origin could also be organised, but the practice is often different. The deal seems to re-frame the European Union's policy to externalise its migration policy and, through ad hoc agreements, to keep migrants and refugees as far away from the European Union as possible. In addition, legitimate refugees will not be given protection in this way, as the asylum system in the third countries concerned is not at all satisfactory. Madam Secretary, what is, firstly, the state of play of the agreement with Rwanda? What are its precise modalities? Secondly, what is the government's position on the deal? What level is the proposal currently at: the European External Action Service, the European Commission or any other organisations? Has our country had the formal opportunity to express its views on what is on the table? Finally, 10 EU Member States, including Belgium, and a number of other countries, such as Canada, the United States, Switzerland and Norway, promised to resettle at least 6 600 people from Agadez, Niger. This is a similar mechanism, but it is difficult and slow. According to our information, Belgium has only now relocated 43 people from Niger. Why is that? How many people have Belgium promised to resettle from there?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u26	Mr De Vriendt, this is indeed a complex problem. In recent years, there has been clear evidence that the refugee problem requires a global approach. The EU has taken serious steps in recent years to develop a global approach. I therefore disagree with the spirit of your question. You say that EU policy is only aimed at externalising its migration policy, including through pushbacks. The Rwanda project referred to is not an EU project. As a result of the situation in Libya, Rwanda has offered its support. On 10 September, Rwanda, UNHCR and the African Union signed a Memorandum of Understanding setting out the start-up of a transit mechanism for the evacuation of refugees and migrants from Libya in accordance with the Niger Agreement. In view of the high need for places to evacuate Libya and the limited capacity in Niger, UNHCR has been looking for countries in the region willing to receive refugees and migrants from Libya. In Rwanda, UNHCR, in cooperation with the Rwandan government, will seek sustainable solutions for the evacuated. It may be resettlement to a third country, but it may also return to the first country of asylum or, if possible, to the country of origin. Rwanda is therefore prepared to receive part of the evacuated in its own country and to provide residence documents and other assistance. The European Union was not involved in the conclusion of that agreement, but was in the meantime approached with the request to provide financial support for that project. UNHCR has also called on resettlement countries to provide the necessary places for resettlement from Rwanda. As the European Union was not involved, Belgium did not express itself, but this project deserves our support. After all, it provides a way out for migrants and refugees living in very precarious detention conditions in Libya. The emergency transit mechanism in Niger is more difficult than planned. For the period 2018-2019, Belgium had offered 87 relocations for Niger. As we have not received sufficient resettlement files from UNHCR and some of the persons offered were refused after an opinion from and heard from the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless, that number could indeed not be reached. The number currently stands at just over half of the number of relocations offered. We continue to support the project. We will explore how Belgium can contribute in 2020 to the supply of relocations for countries on the Central-Mediterranean route, including Niger, and whether the mechanism with Rwanda could possibly be further developed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u27	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. We are very concerned about such agreements. We have serious reservations about this, which are always reflected in two elements. The first question is what the conditions are on the ground, in this case in Rwanda, and whether there are sufficient guarantees. There are certain standards in Europe which do not necessarily apply in Rwanda. The second issue is the prospect of a new life for those concerned. There can be no asylum applications in Rwanda. In Rwanda people can get documents, a certain statute, but we wonder what that statute means. Will the data subjects have the same rights and obligations as here? And when it comes to resettlement, is it a resettlement in a European country, which has signed the Geneva Convention on Refugees and where there is a possibility of asylum recognition, with the same rights and obligations as the inhabitants here? We see, for example, that resettlement from Niger is not going so well. Are there sufficient guarantees that this will go well with the new project? There are still many questions and concerns.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u28	If this is to be difficult, we must find a better way of screening and questioning people. Only refugees whose files are submitted by the United Nations can be further questioned by the Commissioner-General. I think that is the point when the Commissioner-General finds safety issues in the file. It concerns small numbers of people who are refused. Anyway, the biggest cause is that not enough is being offered. I agree with you: if it is a similar mechanism in Rwanda, it must be improved there. It is not possible to make such plans and ask for the cooperation of countries, even though there is a lack of effectiveness. One must learn from the mistakes. And of course, we agree that it is not an easy country to operate in.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u29	Mr President, Madam Minister, for the past few weeks, we have been alerted about the saturation of the Fedasil centres. However, this increase was predictable. This is not a crisis, but a return to the 2016 and 2017 figures. Today, some centres have to set up tents, such as in Rixensart, in order to respond to this situation. Minister, how did you anticipate this return to normal? What mechanisms have you deployed to this end? Then I will come back to a decision of your predecessor, who had opted for the installation of large structures of collective centres. However, they do not promote the interests of children or guarantee the right to privacy. Similarly, these centres do not provide an optimal response to the placement needs of asylum seekers. Minister, unlike your predecessor, do you favour smaller centres, such as local reception initiatives (LAI)? In this way, an answer would be given to these flows of varying importance.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u30	Mr President, Madam Minister, we have seen a saturation of the reception network over the past few weeks. Fedasil has to find between 500 and 700 places per month, which translates into the creation of high-capacity centres – such as the Mouscron one you will visit tomorrow. For the past few days, we have also seen the opening of precarised places: containers, tents, mobile units, holiday camps – like the Spa which opens in the next few hours. Minister, what action plan have you planned to increase and monitor this capacity? For the next few months, the projections are the same: the need for 500 to 700 places, temporary centres, installation of mobile units, implementation of a distribution plan. What is the cost of this action plan? Your predecessor had a very heavy hand in closing the reception places at an exaggerated rate. Of course, at the time, it was very interesting to communicate about this, but today, as you said earlier, it is you and the government that have to bear the consequences, which are also financial. What, then, is this cost in view of the action plan originally proposed by Fedasil, namely, to create buffer places and maintain a certain capacity of the network? What measures do you intend to put in place for workers in these reception facilities which are in difficulty in the face of an occupation of more than 100 % of the reception facilities with tensions within them and a very complicated context which has been going on for several months already and which will continue to exist?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u31	Madam Minister, CIRÉ recently responded to the current reception policy in an article on the RTBF website. The organisation points out that the lack of reception for refugees is not due to too many asylum applications, but to a shortage of reception places and is suing that situation. Your predecessor, Mr Francken, closed a series of reception points in 2017. The problems that CIRÉ raises are the following. Firstly, the closure rather than the standby of temporary reception places, so that they cannot be re-enabled. Secondly, insufficient staff at the DVZ and the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless. Thirdly, the consequences of Mr Francken's asylum quotas, which brings many people back to the streets every day. The number of refugees is steadily increasing but certainly again. More than 4,000 applications were added in 2018 compared to 2016. In spring 2018, Fedasil itself recommended the creation of 7,500 buffer sites that can be deployed quickly when needed. That advice was in the wind by the government at the time. I have the following questions. You received an extra EUR 14 million for Fedasil. To what do you give priority in the use of this extra EUR 14 million? How many shelters are there right now? How many temporary shelters were closed in 2017? What are the possibilities of reopening it? Do you know about the staff shortages at the DVZ and the CGVS? If so, what plans do you have to resolve them?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u32	Minister, I will be brief as my colleagues have referred to the findings. I am not going to go back on it, but rather ask you what complementary solutions you are considering to meet the saturation of the host network. In the spring of 2018, Fedasil proposed the creation of 7,500 buffer places that could be easily activated if needed. What about it? What is the number of collective places and individual places? How many places does the reception network have for minors, disabled people and very vulnerable profiles? The press reports 5,000 backlog files in February 2019. Do you confirm this number? How much do you assess the backlog today? How do you plan to absorb it? How long is an application for asylum being processed? The Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons has just asked through the press for an additional budget for the asylum administrations and courts. In your opinion, what additional budget will be required to hire the necessary staff in each structure?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. The total number of places in the Fedasil network and its partners is currently 24,667 places for 23,746 people, including 6,414 individual places and 17,430 collective places. There are 1,376 places planned for unaccompanied minors and Fedasil estimates that it would take 500 to 650 places according to the additional reception projections per month to continue to provide reception and support for all beneficiaries. Unfortunately, it is not possible to reopen the places that have been closed in recent years. These places were permanently closed and some of them were also sold by the Government of the Buildings or by Defence, because there were some barracks there. Fedasil has no filing cabinet with old sites to fall back on. New sites need to be searched and this is happening. Many measures have already been taken or are being implemented to ensure reception for all asylum seekers. Since the beginning of the year, the capacity has increased by more than 3,500 places. In addition to the installation of mobile units – which are not just tents or containers suitable for accommodation – several new reception centres have been opened since the beginning of the year. Others will open soon but are still being examined by Fedasil. Finally, a public tender is being prepared to provide sufficient buffer places. We will use the market to re-establish the necessary buffer positions. Some of those buffer sites have disappeared by now, but we still need them. I invented the terms "bufferplace" and "place tampon." Over the years, we have seen a constant increase and decline in influx. On 1 August 2019, Fedasil sent a letter to the local authorities regarding the possibility of creating individual ILA reception spaces under an ILA convention. The same question was also asked in December 2018 but we did not get many answers. This may be explained by the fact that at the time the mayors were at the end of their term of office. Since then, an additional 1,200 ILA places have been opened, 800 of which have been part of a restart of the convention. The question we launched, along with the plan we submitted to the government, contained a triptych. The amount of EUR 14 million was used to create more places. In addition, our administrations were strengthened, both at the Foreign Affairs Office and at the Commissioner General. In this way, the accumulated delay in the number of files to be dealt with could be eliminated. You should also know that those funds were released in February. Afterwards, Selor's recruitment took place. This has taken a lot of weeks and months. Afterwards, those involved also had to undergo training in order to be able to deal with the files. In order to ensure legal certainty, those persons must be properly trained. At the Commissioner-General we are talking about six months of training before we can deal with dossiers ourselves. Providing training for six months also means reducing the capacity in the services themselves, as those who provide the training can at that time also deal with fewer dossiers themselves. I come to Fedasil and the opening of new centers. When a new reception centre is opened, qualified personnel are always recruited and/or transferred. Luckily, we don't have to call on Selor for that. With regard to the centres opened by Fedasil, pending the recruitment and training of employees, a sponsorship system is often used by another reception centre with experienced staff. The small centres are always under the supervision of a "peter" which is a larger centre, which can provide assistance and assistance, and exchange expertise. In Fedasil's designation policy, there are no plans to designate families with children for smaller care facilities. Individual reception places are provided, according to the reception model, for persons with a status or a high chance of obtaining protection, so that they can already prepare locally for their integration into Belgian society. However, for vulnerable families with children, there are specific places in reception networks such as in Louvranges, Hotton, Rixensart and Arendonk. The ultimate solution, however, will only require an increase in the departures of Fedasil structures. It is therefore important that, in the coming months, asylum bodies significantly increase the number of decisions handed down. The duration of treatment is very variable and, at present, a full asylum procedure can easily take more than a year. Consideration must also be given to the possible time frame for appeal against a negative decision of the CGRA. When I took over the jurisdiction of the Asylum and Migration, I immediately put priority on strengthening the staff of asylum bodies. This was part of my action plan, which was approved by the Council of Ministers on 15 February. The recruitment procedure could be launched immediately thereafter, but the difficult situation on the labour market did not help to find suitable candidates quickly. Since this summer alone, there have been reinforcements at the Foreign Office and CGRA. With the reinforcement of staff, the Office of Foreigners was able to stabilize its backlog, which had increased steadily since February 2019, from 9,500 to 12,000 people. First there will be a stabilisation and then the backlog of those files will be overtaken. New people are already working in the Foreign Affairs Office and new people are now in training at the Commissioner-General, but this training takes up to six months. We have also carried out a priority examination of the dossiers. Various measures have therefore been taken within the administration. The solution is to go back to where we came from, faster treatment, faster decisions and to get people out of the care network faster. In this way, even with an increased inflow, saturation should be able to decrease. I realise that the effort I had to ask for at the beginning of my previous mandate was the same. This is certainly incriminating for the staff, and we are doing everything we can to remedy it. On site, however, it is not easy to find new places. After all, there is always criticism. We use an old retirement home because of the fact that we also have people with physical defects who cannot get into a large center with many stairs. Then we get criticism because it's a rest home. If we use a chalet park, it's mainly for families. So we are all trying to do that. Furthermore, we always have a good mix of nationalities in the centers. There is also a mix of families and single men. In a previous legislature, I was in the Barracks of Bastogne. There were 500 single men from Afghanistan, Iraq and Iran. It was in that village to go mad. Those men didn't come in at night, but rather stayed in the village. That's what they've learned. This was then a centre of the Red Cross. We need a good mix of families and single men, ages, nationalities... it's not that easy for Fedasil. This is something that is being taken care of in order to avoid conflicts in the centres and to ensure safety for the staff, but also for the people who come here to seek protection.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u34	Madam Minister, thank you. First of all, you are giving important information because it shows that we agree that, contrary to what is said, we are not in a migration crisis but in a crisis of reception. Indeed, you refer to one year's waiting times, but these waiting times could be three years for some people. You also evoke the boredom and wandering of some people, but this is the case in many centres. You are talking about ILA, a request you made to the municipalities to have more places in ILA as well as the electoral context. Once again, I agree with you. Unfortunately, the migration issue is often taken hostage by electoral interests. Why not repeat a request now that new communal councils and colleges are installed? Finally, you're talking about buffer places that you've established. Next to these, do you have a buffer staff? I am not particularly in favour of work flexibility, but it may also be interesting to have a staff pool in order to be able to hire more quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u35	Mr President, I am a little surprised at the way in which the issues are grouped as we are talking here about the saturation of the network in the broad sense. I had to ask a question later about the backlog of the asylum procedure and here we have already addressed this issue. It might be interesting, next time, to group the issues by theme, so as to avoid duplication in the debate. I have heard that we have a problem, but I have not heard that we have a problem of migration here, but of migration policy. That is where the problem lies for me. If we are in a crisis, it is certainly the responsibility of the government, but the first person responsible is Mr Francken. You must assume as minister today – and you assume it well – the consequences of past choices that are complicated. These earlier choices were made against the opinion of the administration itself. I have heard Mr Franken again in the Finance Committee criticising the administration, highlighting its responsibility for the current consequences and management. It is quite crazy to criticize the administration in the broad sense and all the more Fedasil, who, as a reminder, received in 2016 the award of the public company of the year for having managed in a remarkable way the previous crisis. I understand the complexity of the current situation that you are facing, but I see first of all the first result: men and women welcomed in precarious conditions. While mobile units are not tents, they are not structures that meet the quality standards defined by the host law. We are well aware of that. Next, the result is the pressure exerted on the workers and some are currently in burn-out. It is true that Fedasil has the means to engage whenever capacity increases. But reality is also the time it takes for these people to be operational. Unfortunately, the flows are already tense and make it difficult to organize in parallel reception and training. The result, as you indicated earlier, is a rather negative answer or no answer from CPAS. It's obvious. There has been a breach of trust between all partners. From the moment that, during the crisis in 2015, the government asks for the opening of reception places in ILA without which there will be a distribution plan, the CPAS – partners for 25 years – have followed and, at the speed of lightning, they close their places, causing financial, human consequences with dismissals. If after that they are asked to reopen, I know very few people that it makes you laugh! As they say in Wallonia: "When you pee in my back and they tell me I sweat, it doesn't make me laugh!" I think that's kind of the reaction of the CPAS today. Meanwhile, I am sorry, the result is also a man who tweets, shows the administration of the finger and takes advantage of the chaos that he himself has instituted. I know that we must be loyal, certainly in relation to other agreements, but within the federal government, for example, dare to say that you are being forced today to take on things for which you may not be responsible! Meanwhile, there is an administration that must compensate and that does so with the means it has at its disposal and for that, I thank you for ensuring that at every moment – I know it because I have experienced it – the means are available. They take time because between the times of political and administrative choices and decisions and the reality of the ground, there is always a gap that remains far too great, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u36	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. However, in order to control the increase in the number of refugees, we think it is important that you follow Fedasil's advice to provide additional shelters. I have heard your answer that it is not easy to find new shelters, because the resources are limited. However, it is in the interests of the refugee to provide additional buffer places. This is also in the interests of public order and security in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u37	Madam Minister, I have only one thing to say, and I said it earlier. You must bear the consequences of previous decisions. They weren't made by you, but all these decisions were made by a government at some point. If it is clear that you have to assume them, that it is not very cheerful, and that you do not look completely in tune with them, I do not understand how they were able to pass the ramp at the time, in the government. It seems that you put everything you can in the balance to correct the situation and to welcome people with dignity. We can only thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u38	Question No 55000520C by Mrs Matz was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u39	Madam Secretary, Fedasil would open a new emergency shelter in the buildings of the former IRS at the Stationsplein in Beveren. Some 120 asylum seekers could be sent to the emergency shelter. It would be an open center, where residents can go in and out freely between 6 and 24 hours. At night, the residents have to stay inside. This is already the second shelter on the territory of Beveren, because the Westakkers is also partly located in the district of Haasdonk. I have communicated this information in the conditional manner, because I have only heard them in a number of press articles. Madam Minister, I have the following additional questions, as there is no information yet. First of all, when does the shelter open? Secondly, how did the communication with the residents of the neighborhood go? Third, what's the rent on that location? Is it market-oriented? Fourth, what is the duration of the contract? Are there any obligations in this?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u40	Mr President, the Red Cross Flanders will, on behalf of Fedasil, open a small reception centre in Beveren, in the former Treasury office, which is owned by the Government of the Buildings and has been made available to the reception partner since the beginning of October. This can be agreed upon if necessary. We're gonna need some adaptation work. As you know, they are carried out by the Government of the Buildings. The exact opening date is not yet known. The Red Cross has already consulted the municipal authorities. That consultation will continue after the work and before the opening. This is followed by the usual initiatives to inform the local population well and to set up a hotline for problems. That's the playbook that's used everywhere. There are, of course, also contacts with the competent authorities, schools, etc. There is indeed a maximum capacity of 120 places. Those places won't be occupied overnight. 20 to 30 people, a mix of singles and families, are received per day. The schools are also examining whether they can absorb those numbers. The Red Cross has enough expertise and works well with Fedasil. It's been different once. The Red Cross in our country has not cooperated for a while. It remains a very good partner for us, in cooperation with Fedasil, to ensure a good quality of care and, in a good understanding with the local population, to receive people.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u41	Madam Minister, there are some differences of opinion on the latter. I have been there myself, there is some concern within the community in Beveren. Beveren is not immediately a large city, it is rather a relatively small East-Flemish municipality. If plans appear, with not too much information, and if it is also the second asylum centre in this municipality, then this causes concern for the people. Madam Minister, you know that my party is not in favour of opening asylum centres here and there in smaller municipalities in Flanders. We are in favour of closed reception centres. This proves once again that the planting of such asylum centres in smaller towns and municipalities is not always welcomed on the hooray call.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u42	There's always a lot of anxiety when a center comes. Experience shows that once these people are there, there are few conflicts in small centres. Dialogue between the inhabitants of the centre and the population is also easier in smaller centres than in large cities, where there is already considerable capacity. I understand that, but people in big cities say that they are already dealing with a great deal, and in small cities it is said that it is only a small centre, that it is only a small town. You're pleading for closed down centers. I tell you that in the places where there are closed centres, we also have resistance. I've been everywhere in conflict. I can list the closed centres where I started talking to the trade unions if there had been serious conflicts with the residents. Talking helps. Giving information, helping. At a time when the contract has not yet been concluded, people will not be informed. There is a certain way of working in this area. The necessary contacts are first established and only then will it be examined whether a centre can be opened at that place. It also examines whether this can be done at market prices. Be assured, by the way, that we are acting in a very market-oriented way. No government money can be lost. We also need to ensure a good quality of care. Firefighters, police, mayor and ships, city council, all the communities involved, and representatives of the schools and the neighborhood are also informed. This method is used by both Fedasil and the Red Cross. So both work in the same way. In any case, there is always some concern.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u43	Madam Secretary, thank you for the additional information. I understand there's a schematic to be used. I am merely expressing the concern and feeling of the people of Beveren on the ground. After all, this is the second asylum centre in a relatively small East-Flemish municipality.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u44	Mr President, this question concerns the judgment of the Litigation Section of the Council of State in the file of the fees charged to foreigners for the filing of their files with the administrations. Even though the Council of State has again been very critical of the legislation taken by your predecessor, what strikes me in this judgment is rather the way in which this study was conducted. The Council of State highlights telephone interviews with a dozen unidentified communal agents, conversations with the Director of the Office of Foreigners, a lack of contact with consular services, little or no in-depth statistics on the cases taken into account. On reading, it seems that this study, its methodology and the seriousness with which it was conducted raise questions. My question is about this study and possible others. What do you think about the methodology and implementation of this study, which is being questioned by the Council of State? Can you tell us about the cost of public finances? How was the service provider selected? Have other studies been assigned by your services to the same provider?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u45	Mr President, Madam Minister, as you know, the Council of State recently annulled a royal decree, which had already been contested in the political debate in its time, fixing the amount of the fee charged to foreigners in connection with the filing of their files. This situation calls for very direct and concrete questions. The first concerns the validity of the orders made after the order was challenged before the Council of State. It is my responsibility that your services consider it not tainted by the annulment pronounced by the Council of State. I obviously do not agree with them. Minister, what is your position in this area? In concrete terms, cancellation has implications for applicants as well as for the municipalities that collect the files. Does this cancellation result in a refund of the applicants? By what bias? Above all, what is the overall amount to be reimbursed? We would like clarification because we have the impression that the Foreign Office is asking the municipalities to continue to charge costs, when there is no longer a regulatory basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u46	Mr President, Madam Minister, I shall be brief because my question joins that of my colleague Laaouej on the same two royal decrees cancelled. I'm telling you something that's not negligible. The Council of State considered that the Government had not produced any serious studies to establish the proportionate ratio between the amount of fees fixed and the cost of the service provided for the processing of the residence applications concerned. There are very direct questions about the relationship between the foreign administration and the administration. Does the Office of Foreigners intend to take a proactive approach towards applicants who must be reimbursed for the disputed periods? Will the Office of Foreigners continue to implement the Royal Decree of 12 November 2018, when it is based on royal decrees annulled by the Council of State? Finally, what information has been provided to the municipalities concerning the reimbursement of the fee unduly paid during the disputed periods and concerning the current payment of the fee?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u47	Thank you for your questions. It is true that the Council of State has annulled two royal decrees fixing the amount of the fee intended to cover the administrative costs associated with the processing of certain applications for residence permits. However, I would like to point out that these judgments do not call into question the very principle of royalty. This was confirmed by the Constitutional Court. In determining the amount of the fee, my predecessor relied on a study conducted by both KPMG and the Administrative Simplification Service, using an existing framework contract. This study was commissioned and funded by the Agency for Administrative Simplification. The Council of State criticized the way in which the amount of the fee had been calculated and questioned certain aspects of the method used. It should be noted that this is a rather difficult exercise. I have therefore asked my administration to examine carefully the points criticized in the judgments and to see how they can be improved. There is no question of ignoring the judgments without any more. However, it is important to point out that the annulment by the Council of State covers only a limited period of time and that, following the annulment of the royal decrees, other decrees have been adopted and so far they have not been challenged or annulled. That is why we will continue to apply the fee on the basis of these new decrees, in accordance with the regulations in force. After an initial analysis of the judgments by the administration, we immediately took the necessary steps to inform the partners concerned of the follow-up we were going to give to these judgments. Information on the consequences of the decisions of the Council of State was immediately communicated to diplomatic and consular posts as well as to the communes. This information is also published on the website of the Office of Foreigners. Any refund shall, of course, apply only to the period covered by the judgments. This means that the amounts collected for an application filed between March 2, 2015 and June 25, 2016 will be refunded to any foreigner who requests it. The second judgment concerns applications lodged between 1 March 2017 and 2 January 2019 and concerns only the increase in the amount. It is still too early to know how much to repay in all, as this depends on the number of claims that will be submitted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u48	Madam Minister, I would like to remind you that we regret the pricing that has been implemented. In any case, I thank you for the follow-up you will bring with you to ensure a refund for those who have suffered harm.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u49	Minister, what the municipal authorities do not understand from a legal point of view is that the basic order is that of 2015. It was cancelled. From the time this order is rescinded, subsequent orders based on this order lack legal basis or lose their validity themselves, since they are never only amending orders of a pre-existing order. If the annulment relates to this basic order, there is no longer a regulatory basis. If you consider that you need to continue with this policy, you need to take back a regulatory basis. We do not think it appropriate to pursue this policy, of course. I would add that subsequent orders to increase the fee a fortiori would confirm the case law of the Council of State which upheld the complaint of lack of proportionality. Any order which would have the effect of increasing the fee would be tainted by the same nullity from the moment the Council of State has already ruled on proportionality. I refer here to what Mr. Smet compared to the lack of motivations and studies to establish proportionality. I think the first thing to do, (you are the government, we are Parliament) is to look at the opportunity of maintaining the system. The Council of State has given you an indication. Secondly, you need to clarify diplomatic posts and communes legally in terms of whether or not there is a sufficient regulatory basis through an interpretative circular from your office because the Foreign Office has an extensive approach. Legally, the approach should not be restrictive or extensive, but strict. "The right, just the right, but all the right." That is what we expect of you, minister. We will read your answer because we are here on complex matters. I'm not reassured and I'm saying it. I am thinking in particular of those who have communal responsibilities. Our administrations don't know how to dance.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u50	Indeed, it appears that the amounts requested by the Foreign Office are based on the same studies as the cancelled orders. There is therefore a legal uncertainty which does not seem to me to be completely removed. For the rest and on the substance, let us remember that this fee is in addition to the administrative costs already existing for the submission of visa and residence applications for amounts ranging from 62 to 358 euros! In general, too much cost to populations with very little money to spend on administrative services raises the question of accessibility. For the rest, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u51	Madam Minister, recently the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless have found that asylum seekers who have been recognised as refugees in another European Member State are moving to Belgium to apply for asylum again. In most cases these include Syrians, Iraqis, Eritreans and Afghans. The applicants were 156 in July and 113 in August. This form of abuse of asylum or asylum shopping is only the tip of the iceberg, because there are many more asylum seekers in Belgium who have already applied for asylum in another country. They leave for our country without waiting for the procedure in the other country or after they were refused, and then apply again for asylum. In theory, our country can protect itself from this through the Dublin mechanism, but in practice its implementation is flawed for all kinds of reasons. Madam Minister, how do you intend to protect our country from these forms of asylum abuse, given that abuse is pushing taxpayers at high costs, increasing pressure on the reception network and increasing administrative delays?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u52	Mrs Safai, it is indeed an important problem, which has already been touched on in the previous questions. The secondary migratory flows to our country, our neighbouring countries and the Scandinavian countries are important and can be dealt with most efficiently in a European framework. Therefore, it is crucial for Belgium and other destination countries to continue to insist on the much-needed reform of the Dublin mechanism, which today does not provide an adequate solution to the problem. Last week, at the Justice and Home Affairs Council in Luxembourg on 8 October, I sent out a clear message that this is an absolute priority for our country and for other countries, as well as for the incoming European Commission. The reality is what it is, but in the meantime, in the Belgian context, we must do everything we can to combat the phenomenon and, if possible, to prevent it. For persons with a protection status in another Member State to whom Dublin regulations do not apply, an inadmissibility decision may be taken in an accelerated procedure in accordance with Belgian law. At the beginning of last summer, when I was instructed by the Foreign Office and the Commissioner-General, special measures were taken to deal with these asylum applications in the shortest time: they are given priority, so that a decision can be taken more quickly, on the basis of a proper legal advice. It quickly makes it clear to those asylum seekers that they do not have a chance of protecting us and that they therefore cannot enjoy any rights here either. In 2019, 599 persons were already granted a decision of inadmissibility by the Commissioner-General for that reason. The persons for whom Dublin regulations do apply are also an important category of secondary migration. In this respect, we are doing everything possible to apply the Dublin regulations within the current framework. Additional staff were also recruited in order to speed up the handling of the relevant files. It would be a good idea for those concerned to see that as well. Our country is heavily affected by secondary migratory waves, which are a major burden at European level, because we have a much better and attractive social security system. As I said earlier, Belgium is the land of milk and honey for them. They think they see the best system here. Among other things, Sweden is also the victim, like Luxembourg and the Netherlands, countries that have a similar attractive system, albeit less generous. Acknowledged refugees from Spain, Italy or Greece are coming here and they could be called some kind of economic refugees within Europe. After all, for those who have the status of recognised refugee and have been able to organise their lives in full safety in another country, the reason for moving to another country over time must be economic. We need to tackle the phenomenon more strictly. Now we've found it. Those involved are indeed in our reception system. We therefore want to deal with their dossiers as quickly as possible. However, this must be done in a proper procedural manner. The procedures have been greatly shortened, so we have been able to deal with a large number of dossiers in a short time. We hope that those involved will share the news.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u53	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive answer. I hope that we will be able to solve the problem altogether.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u54	Question No 55000612C by Mr Simon Moutquin is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u55	Mr President, Madam Minister, I will be brief, since we have already dealt with this issue before. In August of this year, CGRA announces 8,368 cases representing some 10,000 people awaiting a decision. Considering that the normal workload is estimated at 4,200 cases, it can therefore be considered that the backlog in August is 4166 cases, an increase since last year since July 2018, the backlog was 1,012 cases. The magnitude of the task and the difficulties for administration are therefore measured. Action should be taken. A majority of these 10,000 people are in the reception network. At present, while solutions to network saturation are being sought, solutions also involve speeding up the procedure, on the one hand to relieve the network, but also because humanly, it is important for everyone to be able to know the decision that will be taken on them, whether positive or negative. Minister, given the current backlog, when can we hope that these 10,000 people trapped in the reception network will receive a decision from asylum authorities to release the network? Do you intend to increase the resources of the Office of Foreigners and CGRA? What will be the cost of these commitments as a matter of urgency, compared to a contract that would have been maintained? I am thinking of the need to reform the staff, since we have had to get rid of trained personnel. It is known that the expertise requires a certain amount of time: when will this staff be operational? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u56	Mr Rigot, I have already given some answers in other answers. We committed through the plan that was approved by the Council of Ministers in February. We had also already planned the strengthening of administrations. Yes, my aim is to speed up asylum procedures as much as possible. It is essential that asylum seekers receive a decision as soon as possible and leave the reception network within a reasonable time. It's cheaper for the state, but I also think it's more human, because these aren't really ideal circumstances. I immediately put priority on strengthening the staff of asylum bodies. It was the plan that was approved on February 15. The recruitment process was launched immediately. The situation was difficult on the market. The Selor was behind schedule. It is only since this summer that we have had reinforcements at the Foreign Office and the CGRA. For CGRA, recruitment and, above all, training take up to six months to complete, because the skills to be acquired to examine an asylum application are more specific. This month, the number of employees will reach the full-time level that the CGRA had before the summer of 2018. We strengthened the structure, knowing that 40 full-time collaborators had to leave at that time. It takes six months of training to achieve average productivity. We should therefore wait until March 2020 for the CGRA to reach its maximum output. It has also taken other steps to have a higher output but the maximum result is really expected by March 2020. We will, of course, make every effort to reduce the backlog as quickly as possible and bring it back to a normal level. Currently, a full asylum procedure may exceed one year, not to mention any time-limits for appeal against a negative decision of the CGRA. With regard to your question on the effects of non-maintenance of agents in asylum proceedings, I also regret this because our administrations have lost trained, experienced and empowered staff to deal with more cases. On the basis of average productivity, the calculation was done by several because announcing figures is always difficult. We can thus estimate that we would have about 6,500 asylum seekers today in our reception network, if the employment contracts had been maintained. You can calculate the annual cost yourself. It's a lot when you know that for ten months, I had to look for 650 places a month. It is the equivalent of a ten-month work that needs to be done. It's a legacy I accept. As always, when you start as a minister in a department, you always have to manage the legacy of predecessors. We have to do the job. That's all. I'm moving forward to prevent this staff from getting in distress. In 2011, the situation was the same. Administrations were understaffed. I can't rewrite the past. That was a little the reason for my anger when I answered Mrs. Matz. I focus on the present in order to better prepare for the future. With Fedasil and the asylum authorities, we monitor the situation closely and continuously assess whether new measures are needed. Every Tuesday morning, Commissioner General Roosemont and Mr Luxen are around the table with my colleagues. For two hours, we talk about all the problems. We follow up on the files processed and look at the groups that are difficult to integrate into the reception system. Each time, we take the measures that are possible to avoid an increase in reception capacity and to speed up the reinforcement of asylum authorities' staff. These are very intense meetings. You're welcome. On the other hand, from an operational point of view, contacts must be sufficiently maintained. I telephone the mayors myself before the start of the work. It is a matter of politeness, especially as they are asked for a lot. Some people have almost an attack when I say it's Maggie De Block on the phone. I'm doing everything I can to visit the centres. I'm going to Mouscron tomorrow. Next week, I'll be in Lommel. This is done not in the presence of the press, but it is really working meetings with the mayor, the residents and the staff of the reception centre. It's very interesting but you have to have the condition of an Olympic athlete to combine this with Public Health and Social Affairs. I can tell you!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u57	Minister, I know how much you're investing right now and thank you for that. The visits you are going to make to the Mouscron centre and Lommel next week are important signals that it is necessary to transmit to the administration – Fedasil, the Office of Foreigners, the CGRA – signals of support to all these teams who perform a complex work in a matter that, it is clear, is not sexy for anyone. I would point out that you are obviously not responsible for decisions taken in the past and that you are making decisions about the present. If you were to make decisions for the future, I very much hope that you would take into account the failures of the past in order not to make these mistakes again and that you would be more cautious about the forecasts and options to be taken to maintain network and reaction flexibility. And, why not, consider a system of flexibility linked above all to the asylum procedure: the flexibility of the staff of the Office for Foreigners and CGRA. Indeed, if the asylum procedure goes ahead and we are able to respond to it in a timely manner, additional reception facilities must not be opened, which makes it possible to work with a much smaller network.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u58	For better impact, the budgets of the entire chain will now be calculated for the coming years. When there is a shortage of staff, there is a decrease in the budget, but at the same time there is an increase in the budget in the reception system. This budget model is experimental. This would explain to the government the consequences of a lack of staff in the administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u59	Thank you for your answers. I will follow very closely the evolution of these matters which are of interest to me. Since you propose it to me, I will not fail to attend these meetings of the Task Force with great pleasure.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u60	Mr Rigot, if I am not mistaken, the minister has already answered a question about ALAs.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u61	Mr President, I wish to turn this question into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u62	Question No 5500917C by Mr Rigot is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u63	Minister, a topical issue at the time was the difficulty for the French- and German-speaking bar associations in joining the Office des Étrangers, which obviously had an impact on the follow-up of the files of applicants for international protection. You were arrested in January and then in September by bars. Can you confirm these inquiries, as well as the difficulties in joining the Foreign Office? What follow-up have you given to these arrests? Do you have an explanation that justifies why the Foreign Office is difficult to reach? What changes have you made or are you going to make on the ground to prevent the situation from deteriorating? What steps are being taken to make the Office of Foreigners accessible again by telephone?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u64	Personally, I don't dare call them anymore! It is true that the Office of Foreigners was indeed questioned by the Bar Association and made a reply last February. The Director General personally met with representatives of lawyers on Monday, 7 October. The structural but also technical difficulties experienced by the Foreigners' Office could then be clarified, but these are not resolved. You may know that the Office of Foreigners moved in November of last year and is now in a completely renovated building adapted to modern working methods, including shared offices and laptops for all. The telephony is also managed from portable PCs and this seems to be one of the sources of the problem. Some solutions are being implemented, including optimisation of the telephone exchange and its use by employees in order to improve accessibility. The list of specific numbers for municipalities and lawyers has also been updated, but the call groups still need to be expanded. This measure is also under way. These are call groups that allow automatic deviations if a first responder is absent or occupied. As far as information desks are concerned, it has of course been envisaged to strengthen it. However, given the specific nature of the function and the lack of budget, appeals to internal candidates that have been launched have so far not been able to significantly strengthen the service. Discouraged by waiting, customers choose to send an e-mail. Mailboxes are saturated, explosive! This generates a vicious circle in which customers try to call again. For the time being, the processing time fluctuates continuously. The lack of staff within the implementing office also has a direct impact on the management of lines reserved for municipalities and lawyers. The Agency is well aware that the raison d'être of this service is directly in the direction of clients and makes every effort, to the extent possible, to be able to provide satisfaction with the service provided. At first, it was thought to be a problem due to lack of staff, but it was detected after there was also a technical problem with telephony.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u65	Minister, thank you for your answers. It's been almost a year since the Foreign Office moved. It is regrettable that there has been no more anticipation. We knew the backplanning for the move and we had to make sure everything was going to be operational. Anticipating means that you need a basic plan but also an alternative if it doesn't work. It is a pity to say in the 21st century that we did not anticipate a problem of Voice over IP. The damage is there for customers, who are seeking international protection. This lengthens the deadlines, it causes frustrations. It is also time-consuming for lawyers and it has a financial cost. This also frustrates the teams of the Office of Foreigners. Minister, I am counting on you to implement all of this as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u66	I'm not dealing with the operational level. I didn't organize the move or fix the phone problems. It's not up to me to take action.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u67	It's up to you to make sure they're taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u68	I have been informed of the situation by Mr Roosemont but I am not going to install the phones myself!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u69	I agree. Call Mr. Roosemont and, if he answers, ask him to install them as soon as possible!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u70	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Delizée's 550000922C was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Delizée's 550000923C was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u71	Mr President, Minister, in December 2018, you took over Mr Francken's torch and abolished the quota of up to 50 asylum applications per day. This quota was introduced to discourage Palestinian refugees from Gaza from coming to Belgium. When you returned to Secretary of State, you stated that the policy needed to be human again. However, the distress campaign against Palestinian refugees does not seem to be stopped according to an analysis by MO Magazine, for the following reasons. Firstly, you had the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless examine whether the status of recognised refugees from Gaza could not be abolished. Secondly, many refugees who have been sent back to Spain through the Dublin Regulation appear to have been imprisoned. According to the law, detention of a refugee is not possible only because of the Dublin Regulation, but also because of the risk of hiding. The situation in Gaza is precarious: 66 injured and 3,174 dead in Gaza this year, 53 percent of the inhabitants live below the poverty line and 52% of Gazans are unemployed. Several civil society organisations, including the Civil Society Platform for Aid to Refugees, speak of a betrayal policy rather than a fight against trafficking in human beings. Firstly, in view of the precarious situation in which the people of Gaza find themselves, why did you have the Commissioner-General examine whether the recognition of refugees from Gaza could be abolished? Secondly, what definition of risk of hiding is used by the Foreign Office to justify the detention of Palestinians who may be returned under the Dublin Regulation? Thirdly, can you say exactly how many Palestinians who were repatriated to Spain were imprisoned?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u72	Mr President, Mrs Daems, first of all I would like to say that we are dealing here with granting asylum for political reasons. You are talking about the poverty line and so on, but these are economic refugees and not political refugees. So that's another matter. The assessment of asylum applications in our country is the responsibility of independent bodies, both at first instance, the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless and, on appeal, the Council for Aliens' Contests. It is clear that a minister responsible for Asylum and Migration must respect that independence. However, as a minister, one could ask the Commissioner-General to examine the possible abolition of the refugee status granted in the past to Palestinians from Gaza. The Commissioner-General had recently changed his policy because the situation in the country of origin had changed: in the assessment of the Commissioner-General, there was no longer any question of the impossibility of returning to Gaza. The law provides for the Minister to request that this be investigated. The policy change of the Commissioner-General justifies this question. I do not judge the gravity of the situation in Gaza. Nor do I judge the need to recognise or not recognise refugee status or to abolish status for persons who have previously obtained status. The Commissioner-General has not yet been able to give an opinion because the case law of the Foreign Affairs Council on the change of the Commissioner's policy has not yet been fully clarified and is being delayed. The Foreign Affairs Office naturally uses the definition of the risk of hiding provided by Article 1 (2) of the Foreign Affairs Act. The risk of hiding must be current and real. This is established after an individual examination, taking into account all circumstances specific to each case. The detention decisions must and must always be justified in law and in fact. The level of protection of the Palestinians in 2018 was 87% but dropped to 30% until September 2019. That makes a big difference. Finally, I can tell you that six Palestinians who were repatriated to Spain were detained in 2018. In 2019 27 were held. As regards the degree of protection for Palestinians, the fall from 87% to 30% concerns not only people from the Gaza Strip but everyone who is present here and says that he or she is Palestinian. There are a number of people who, for example, come from Lebanon and say that she is from the Gaza Strip and is Palestinian. There are also people in there who come from other regions. In other words, asylum seekers with an indefinite nationality are not included.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u73	Just to clarify, I was talking not only about poverty and unemployment, but also about 66 injured and 3,174 dead in Gaza, of course. It is quite clear that it is a precarious situation. We continue to insist that your return policy administration should make a realistic assessment of the situation in Palestine. The laws and international conventions must be respected in order to avoid humanitarian problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u74	Madam Secretary, in De Morgen of 7 October a poignant report appeared on the refugee camp in Moria, Greece. 13,000 refugees are trapped there in a refugee camp where there is only room for 3,100 refugees. There's only one doctor around. There are thefts and assaults on women. Diseases spread to children and adults. It seems that European solidarity is far from being achieved there. What initiatives will the Belgian authorities take to respond to the urgent situation in Moria? How many people arriving in Greece should Belgium take up according to the European asylum quota? Do you think it is still desirable to return refugees to Greece through the Dublin Regulation? How many people were sent back to Greece this year? Do you know how many of them ended up in Moria?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u75	Mrs Daems, our country has always stressed the need to support Greece in a European context. Both political, financial, operational and legislative initiatives in favour of Greece have always been supported by Belgium on the basis of the conviction that solidarity with Greece is necessary and should be organised within a European framework. I am thinking here, for example, of increased financial assistance, support through Frontex, but also secondment from our administrations, of people with expertise. In 2015, as a result of pressure on the asylum system of Greece and Italy, the European Union decided to establish a relocation mechanism. That programme officially ended on 26 September 2017. Belgium re-established a total of 1,162 persons within that scheme, including 691 from Greece. At present there is no European quota for asylum seekers that Belgium should withdraw from Greece, since the relocation programme ended at the end of 2017. At the end of 2016, the European Commission made recommendations on the conditions under which a Dublin transfer could continue to Greece. So far, the Commission's recommendations have not been amended. You asked how many people were already transferred this year from whom it was found that they had already applied for international protection in Greece. It's two people. I don't know where they ended up. They were sent back, but why would they go back to that camp if they were granted refugee recognition in Greece? I didn't see that report. In both cases, we have received an explicit agreement from the Greek authorities on their responsibility and reception. Transfers are made only on the basis of an explicit agreement whereby the Greek authorities give guarantees of reception. If no reception is possible, Belgium will also not get an agreement. So no one is being sent back to Moria. Moria is a hotspot for first arrival and people returning under the Dublin rules are always taken care of on the mainland.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u76	Madam Minister, I understand that this situation has not yet been discussed in your cabinets or at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u77	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u78	I think it is clearly a question of European solidarity. Actually, I think it's pretty strong. Of course, Belgium cannot take on all the work on refugee reception, but it is clear that Greece cannot do that either. Belgium can play a leading role in the field of European solidarity and can encourage other countries to do the same. I hope you will play that role.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u79	I won't. I believe that everyone should take responsibility within Europe, including the Greeks. We have already given them a lot of financial resources and logistical support. Of course, they have a special problem with their islands and their long border, and we understand that. We are doing what we can at European level. By the way, most of the funds went to the Greeks. There must be solidarity between the European Member States, but on the other hand the Dublin rules must continue to apply, including for returning to the Greek mainland. You say that Belgium must play a leading role in this matter. No, we support solidarity within the European Union, but I will not crusade there for the problems of the Greeks. We have our problems and they have theirs. If you will, I invite you to say so there.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u80	Madam Minister, that was a very clear answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic033x.u81	Debates of the European Parliament Mr De Vriendt's 550001034C will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 550001045C, 550001047C and 550001049C by Mr Kir were postponed.
