ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u2	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Laaouej, referred to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u3	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3367/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3367/4) The draft law contains 119 articles. The bill has 119 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u4	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u5	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is once again Mr Laaouej, who refers to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u6	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3368/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3368/3) The draft law has 4 articles. The bill has four articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u7	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u8	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Leen Dierick, Inez De Coninck, Frank Wilrycx, Caroline Cassart-Mailleux, Griet Smaers, Luk Van Biesen, Michel de Lamotte.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u9	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mrs Lalieux and Mrs Bellens, refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we at CD&V are always in favour of working together and joining forces. The bill that is on the agenda today extends to the merger of the Institute of Accountants and Tax Advisors, IAB, and the Professional Institute of Recognised Accountants and Fiscalists, BIBF. It exemplifies how a good cooperation can deliver a nice initiative. The draft law, which is actually the transposition of a draft by Minister Peeters, was drawn up thanks to very intensive cooperation with the two institutes concerned. Mr President, few Members are still present, yet they are rather noisy. I would point out to them that this is an important legislative proposal, which has been worked very hard by the two institutions. The bill establishes a new institute, the Institute of Tax Advisors and the Accountants (IBA). Colleagues, with the merger, we want to continue to guarantee the quality of the profession and, where possible, even raise it to a higher level. This will enable our companies to maintain their confidence in the profession and to respond much better to the needs of companies. The adaptation of a number of professional titles makes the real role much clearer. With the text, we are also fully committed to transparency through the public register and provide easier access to the profession for the new generation. A transitional council will also manage everything for the establishment and operation of the new institute. In short, the merger has a lot of positive effects. Colleagues, companies currently recognised by the ILO are concerned about whether they retain their recognition. I can answer that in the affirmative. It is not our intention to get rid of that. The future regulation will therefore not deviate from the current regulation in this respect. I would also like to make it clear that the majority of the board of members of the legal bodies of the professional groups must be members of the institute, regardless of their capacity as a member of the institute. They can therefore be both external and internal auditors. Finally, I would like to thank all those who have contributed to the drafting of this legislative proposal, in particular the two institutes, which have worked very hard on it, under the leadership of Minister Peeters, whose work is actually continuing. I would also, of course, like to thank all the committee's colleagues for the very rapid handling of the legislative proposal. We've done a very good job. The institutions are also looking forward to the vote on the legislative proposal, which hopefully will be adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u11	Mr President, we in our country are good at making rules and setting up bodies and advisory councils for individual interest groups. For example, the Institute of Business Supervisors (IBR), the Institute of Accountants and Tax Advisors (IAB) and the Professional Institute of Recognised Accountants and Fiscalists (BIBF) were established. At the heart of the matter, they are all concerned with the accounting and financial statements of companies. In 2017, two of these institutes, the IAB and the BIBF, entered into merger discussions, which resulted in the present legislative proposal. This kind of bottom-up initiative, aimed at simplification and efficiency, can only be welcomed by our group. We would therefore like to address the question put by the two Presidents to support the draft law that awards the merger. The profession of accountant and accountant is a bottleneck profession. In addition, there is the challenge of digitalisation: electronic invoicing and advice and control will greatly increase in importance, unlike the classic tasks of organizing and classifying. Specialization and targeted services therefore require adjustments to the working methods and training of accountants, accountants and administrative staff, especially in smaller offices. We are therefore pleased that the other groups agree. Mr Laaouej rightly stressed in committee the increasingly complex legal situation and fiscal and parafiscal obligations facing the sector. His plea for a further rapprochement with the Institute of Business Supervisors has also not escaped our attention. Mr Van Biesen rightly pointed out in committee the situation abroad, where one institution is the norm for the whole sector. We therefore support his comment on the importance of the sector in tax collection and his call for continued attention to be paid to the smaller offices. The merger of the IAB and the BIBF leads to a new institute, as the colleague mentioned, in short IBA. The main advantage of the merger is that the quality review, which is currently only applicable to auditors and tax consultants, will be extended to all professionals. This gives companies the guarantee of quality control. The rules governing the enforcement of disciplinary action are also similar to the current disciplinary regime applicable to the BIBF. The transitional provisions will start on 1 June 2019. A Joint Transitional Council shall be established for a period of four years. It will carry out all the preparatory tasks and will prepare and set up the new institute. A merger of two organisations always brings uncertainty, changes create inertia, not everyone is from the beginning involved with the need for such a merger. That is why we believe it is important that all the members of the two institutions are given the necessary answers to their questions. It is the task of that transitional Council to remove those uncertainties. Misunderstandings create confusion and resistance. With arguments and the right information one can convince people. Mrs Dierick has already answered a number of questions in committee. Other answers will come, but we have to wait for the royal decision to do so. An important focus for us is access to the profession of certified auditor. Accountants and accountants-taxalists will be able to acquire the title of certified accountant subject to a successful proficiency examination. New candidates will have to take an entrance exam before they can start an internship of three years, which will normally be completed with a successful proficiency examination. In our view, an entrance examination is only useful if a candidate has not been properly prepared. An admission examination should not serve as a barrier to the profession, especially if it is a bottleneck profession. Anyone who has successfully completed an appropriate pre-training course should therefore be granted an exemption from the entrance examination or parts of the examination. Good coordination with colleges, universities and institutes is very important. We hope that the forthcoming elections in both the BIBF and the IAB will be marked by the merger and that the noses will point in the same direction in order to resolve constructively all the practical problems that remain for the time being. Our group will, of course, support the legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u12	Mr President, the text was adopted in committee after discussion. It is a good text in the sense that all institutes need to be brought together for issues of accounting standards and financial standards as part of the work that has been done. However, it is up to me that there are still some gnawings with the accountants' association and that it will certainly be necessary to round up the angles on a number of modalities which fall within the scope of the institutes. We must therefore draw the attention of the government to our work, because it is a bill - and there is no minister at the sitting - on the need to be able to hear each other in order for this merger to take place in a calm manner. There are tensions that need to be eased. The minister in charge of implementing this merger by a royal decree must be careful to calm each other. He must hear them and act as a mediator. To make things clear, I would like to say that I will not change my vote. I just wanted to draw attention to this need when implementing this new institute.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u13	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u14	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3522/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3522/4) The bill has 130 articles. The bill has 130 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u15	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u16	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Van Hecke, referred to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u17	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3422/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3422/4) The draft law has 28 articles. The bill has 28 clauses. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u18	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u19	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 2655: Veli Yüksel, Hendrik Bogaert, Richard Miller, Damien Thiéry 2630: Alain Top, Dirk Van der Maelen, David Geerts.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u20	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85.4) (2655/9) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85.4) (2655/9) The meeting's open. The discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mrs Bellens and Mr Vandenput, refer to the written report. I give the floor to Mr Chabot.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my group will abstain from this text, as it did in committee. The PS Group has for many years been defending a Europe of defence, effective in human, material, industrial and strategic terms. My colleague Mr. Christophe Lacroix had already passed a law to that effect by our assembly in May 2013. The text goes in the right direction, in particular point 3, which calls for the full and as far as possible inclusion of Belgian Defence, and all its strategic decisions, in particular within the CFSP and the European Defence Fund. I thank all my colleagues for having adopted several of my amendments, which reinforce the voluntarism of this text in this respect. However, with this abstention, my group wishes to denounce the abyssal gap between the good intentions contained in the text and the concrete actions of the majority. These acts weaken the emergence, in the long term, of a European defence. European strategic independence has never been a priority for this government. The former majority was 99 per cent Atlanticist, and this parliamentary text alone, unfortunately, will not be able to reverse the vapor. Under this government, Belgium bought American fighter aircraft without any European criteria. A market of the century granted without European criteria. This is also the case with the entire programming law. For my group, the voice and positions of the European Union must be strengthened within NATO. We plead not for unhealthy competition, but for a constructive and complementary approach between the European Union and NATO, based on our democratic values of the rule of law and on the absolute principle that the use of force can only be made as a last resort and within a UN framework. It is therefore necessary to allow the emergence of a real European defence strategy, within the framework of a comprehensive approach that combines diplomacy and development. The PESCO thus opens up a unique opportunity. Unique means, of course, historical, but also and above all, that we have only one chance to seize it. Time is running out if we don't want our country to miss the train. For us, such cooperation will also be able to have a positive impact on the employment, growth, innovation and industrial competitiveness of the Union. Here too, the Belgian industry has a card to play, as long as the federal government finally involves the federated entities. For my group, this European cooperation must also continue to encourage synergies, economies of scale and the common purchase of European military equipment, thus further promoting a common European military training base and the total compatibility of the equipment, which is lacking today.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have an important resolution before us here. It is about an integrated defence policy within the European Union. For those of you who have followed that, this resolution dates back to a year and a half ago, September 2017. We had long discussions about this and had an interesting hearing with seven interesting speakers. We discussed and adopted this resolution in committee two weeks ago. In the meantime, we have found that there have been a number of important achievements at European level. The permanent structured security and defence cooperation, PESCO, was set up. The first projects are under way. A European Defence Fund was also set up, with EUR 90 million for the period 2017-2019. As of next year, EUR 1.5 billion will be set aside. I welcome these steps announced and taken at the European echelon. However, this resolution remains topical. Because we still have to shift one gear higher. Many of the proposals in this resolution aim to improve the coordination and efficiency of EU Member States. Ladies and gentlemen, the resolution calls for a better functioning of the European defence industry. EU Member States still play too much cavalier seul. They all invest in the same material, while we often have to look at America for more expensive weapon systems. You will remember with me the debates on the replacement of our F-16 fighter planes. The European initiatives were no match for the American F-35. That must be changed, ladies and gentlemen, and this can only be done if we join forces. In the case of investment, our preference should ideally go more and more to European technology and European companies. Our Belgian industry will also benefit from this. The fact that the German Chancellor Merkel and the French President Macron concluded an agreement last month is a good sign that the defence industries of both countries are growing together. The other EU Member States must pick up that signal. We have the technology and we have the industry. Let us join forces to become a competitive player on the world market. Colleagues, this is a large sum of money that we could save. The European Parliament calculated that an integrated defence policy could achieve cost-efficiency of between EUR 26 and 130 billion per year. Those are numbers we can't ignore. Mr President, in this resolution I advocate the creation of an operational military headquarters. I also call for a Council of EU Defence Ministers. After all, it does not exist today. A strengthened European security and defence policy will also lead to a more efficient and reliable NATO. After all, many EU Member States belong to the alliance that celebrates its 70th anniversary within two months. I see no contradiction between closer cooperation in defence within the EU and our loyalty to NATO. Belgium is a founding member of both organisations. Ladies and gentlemen, in committee this proposal has been substantially amended by the colleagues of the N-VA. However, after the fall of the government, they also somewhat pulled the plug on this proposal of resolution. Mr Buysrogge, I think I can put it that way. I regret that, but I welcome the support of other parties in this hemisphere. I therefore call on you to support this motion for a resolution for more and a safer Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Yüksel began by saying that we have pulled the plug. We would like to stress once again that we as a group fully agree with the spirit of this resolution when it comes to greater cooperation within Europe in the field of defence, the start of the construction of a European army and a European cooperation which is not contrary to good cooperation within NATO. Our group fully supports this. This is important to stress. This resolution contains many good intentions. Up to a certain point, we have also been able to contribute to the texts as they are presented here today. There are constructive and positive elements in the texts, for which I would, by the way, like to congratulate Mr Yüksel and others. However, it must be said that the context has changed somewhat in the meantime. I will therefore explain to you the two reasons why our group will not support this resolution. Firstly, in the current context with a minority government in current affairs, our group does not, for reasons of principle, support the adoption of a resolution calling for action from the government. Apart from the content and the noble objectives of this resolution, that is an argument in itself for us not to vote in favour of this resolution. Secondly, we also have reservations about the content. We have talked a lot in committee about the requesting section 8d, in connection with the study of European preference for military contracts. Mr Yüksel also referred to this in his speech. We have a lot of questions about this. We have already asked a number of questions on this subject in committee, but have never been fully clarified. I'll ask my questions again anyway. Maybe I'll get an answer after all. Is it about calls for tenders that explicitly stipulate that European bidders can get more points than non-European bidders? Can it lead to a situation where better equipment from non-European bidders get fewer points than a not-so-good bidder from the European Union? Are we talking about a preference for bids from the European Union or about a preference for bids within the European continent? In other words, why would a bid from Norway, and possibly soon from the United Kingdom, be less valued than a French offer? That is the question we are asking ourselves. Another question is why there is no distinction between allies, including Canada and the United States of America, and non-unions. Europe is now being stressed as an ally, but there are other allies with whom we work well. One final question is whether an economic return for the three regions in our country is not more important than a European contract. In short, for all these reasons, we thought it appropriate to exclude that particular element, point 8d, from the resolution. There was no agreement in the committee on this, as Mr Yüksel said. That is why we are giving the House the opportunity, through an amendment we are tabling, to get that element of the requested part out of the resolution. We hope that our amendment will be adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are going to adopt this motion for a resolution tabled by our colleague, Mr Yüksel, whom the MR has co-signed with enthusiasm. For our country, the common security and defence policy is firmly part of building a strong and responsible European pillar within NATO. This European pillar within NATO already dates - as you know - from 1996. It was embodied in the so-called "Berlin Plus" agreements of 2002. In our view, ensuring our security requires this two-pronged approach: the European pillar and NATO. One has to strengthen the other. We need this strong alliance with our American and Canadian allies. As such, the NATO Seventeen-Year Summit, as Mr Yüksel recalled, to be held at the end of 2019 in London, will be an opportunity to appreciate the strength of American involvement in European security and Washington's legitimate expectations for Europe's effective contribution to its security and the stability of its environment. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that today, through our debate and the vote on this motion for a resolution, we are fulfilling our role as parliamentarians in exercising control over the actions of the government in European intergovernmental matters, where the role of the European Parliament or of ad hoc structures is, moreover, relatively limited. The MR has already spoken about the parliamentary oversight deficit on the CSDP. The exercise that we are carrying out seems to me to be a positive contribution to this obligation of transparency and democratic control. In the resolution, we also called for the strengthening of parliamentary control. Mr President, two points seem important to me. First, the industrial aspect and the planning of needs - a subject that we have discussed at length through the acquisition of the various weapons programmes included in the military programming law voted under this legislature; a very large integration of the acquisition processes of the European states - what equipment is needed and on what timetable? - involving upstream greater integration of research and development and, downstream, training, training and common maintenance of equipment, would mechanically have a direct effect on arms companies in Europe. To this end, we must strengthen the political leadership of restructuring, mergers and cooperation between European arms companies. Staying inactive on this issue already leads to the unnecessary multiplication of offers and companies, as well as a lack of critical size vis-à-vis non-European competitors and will lead tomorrow to forced restructurings with significant social costs. Political power must be proactive, in partnership with the sector, even though we are well aware - which has once again emerged in our debates, but also through the intervention of our colleague Mr Buysrogge - of the sensitive nature of this dossier. It is, in fact, 40 000 direct and 560,000 indirect jobs affected in Europe, i.e. nearly 1 million workers in leading-edge trades in a highly competitive sector where new Chinese, Indian and Brazilian producers are looking for new markets in the face of confirmed European, Russian and American producers. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, it is an industrial sector for which we have responsibilities. It will also be involved in promoting the joint financing of such military equipment. This is the whole purpose of the European Defence Fund and the post-2021 European budget and a possible European preference. That is also the whole meaning of this resolution for the acquisition of these. The MR is aware of the difficulties in implementing such a provision, but in a competitive world it is necessary to work towards the emergence of this European preference. This resolution goes in this direction and opens the door. Mr President, the second point I would like to address concerns the concept of the European army. First, I will plead for the full implementation of the Lisbon Treaty mechanisms. Yes, we have set up structured and permanent cooperation, but 25 members. Was that the exact nature of the mechanism? I don't think so. Consequently, outside the Treaty, France has developed the European intervention initiative. Belgium participates in these two hard cores that symbolize the revival of the European project, even beyond the question of defence. I am convinced that the CSDP will not be a European policy in which all member countries will be on the same line. It's obvious. As has been done for the euro, we must therefore favour a hard core in the area of common security and defence policy. Yes, the European Defence Fund is an achievement. The increase in the European budget has yet to be negotiated at the level of its multiannual framework. Yes, the command for planning and conducting external operations exists, but it remains undersized, as does the European Defence Agency. The start-up fund for the emergency financing of the initial phases of external operations is theoretically set up, but when are we going to move on to the operational phase? Tactical groups are not yet in place, the reform of the Athena mechanism remains at a standstill; the Council of European Defence Ministers does not yet exist. Not to mention that in case of no-deal or hard Brexit, we will necessarily have to address the future of our military relations with the United Kingdom. The common security and defence policy cannot be without London. So, to speak of a European army, we should consider further political integration and a common analysis of the risks and the responses to them, ultimately allowing for greater strategic autonomy. If this objective is ambitious, it can only be an objective in the very long term, knowing the issues of national sovereignty that are hidden within this common security and defence policy. A European army is planning, a common budget, joint acquisitions, common support, a common command, a common industrial market and a common political authority. Some points can be reached today, others can not. With this resolution, we deliver a message that we think is very strong: to maintain the momentum of progress and, above all, to continue progress on this issue. A European defence, a pillar of NATO, is the foundation of our vision to ensure the security of the continent, our security and that of our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, we will abstain from voting on this CD&V resolution because it contains several contradictions. Firstly, the resolution calls on the federal government not to further reduce the defence budget and to increase it gradually in the long term. However, the 2019 policy paper shows that the 2019 budget will be lower than the 2017 and 2018 defence budget. So far, we have still not received an answer to the question of where the savings will be felt. In any case, it is odd that a majority party should ask through a resolution to increase the defence budget, while not commenting on the clearly declining budget when discussing the 2019 policy paper. Secondly, the resolution calls on the federal government to make the necessary military investments to ensure sustainable and efficient interoperability and complementarity of military equipment between the Member States of the European Union. That is also strange, because the biggest military investment has just been approved. We will buy US fighter aircraft for a few billion euros, and we choose to invest minimally in European air capacity. This investment is not sustainable and certainly not complementary. There are already a lot of fighter planes in Europe. Germany chose a few weeks ago to keep the F-35 out of the competition for the replacement of its fighter planes. According to the Germans, a choice for the American aircraft, which must be deployed for the next 40 years, could stand in the way of a European defence story. Germany clearly opts for the EU option, apparently not CD&V. At the moment we are arguing for EU purchases are figs after Easter. The biggest purchase has just been placed. Thirdly, the resolution calls on the federal government to strive within the EU to optimise the EU's operational capacity, which is, of course, right, but in the meantime, with all the Member States, we are buying the same material at the expense of its impact. All in all, there are also proposals that we naturally support, such as more pooling and sharing, the elimination of capacity gaps and the further deepening of a European defence, but on the other hand the resolution goes completely against the decisions of this government. We have written a more detailed and concrete resolution and have called for our proposal to be supported, hence our abstention in the vote on this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u26	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u27	Request/Demande 8.d • 41 • Peter Buysrogge cs (2655/10) ******
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u28	The vote on the amendment retained and on the whole of the proposal will take place later. The vote on the reserved amendment and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u29	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 3532: Gilles Vanden Burre, Caroline Cassart-Mailleux, Griet Smaers, Nele Lijnen, Jean-Marc Delizée, Michel de Lamotte, Karin Jiroflée, Kristof Calvo - 2037: Gilles Vanden Burre, Evita Willaert, Kristof Calvo - 2128: Karin Jiroflée, David Geerts, Meryame Kitrir, Karin Temmerman, Maya Detiège - 3067: Griet Smaers - 3469: Caroline Cassart-Mailleux, Isabelle Galant, Benoît Friart.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u30	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u31	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this important text is the result of almost two and a half years of work. It was here, in this same forum, that I asked SME Minister Willy Borsus in a discussion on women's entrepreneurship at the time. In response to his answer to one of my questions, I proposed that he add to all his proposals to encourage female entrepreneurship a measure allowing independent dads to benefit from paternity leave. This would, in particular, support independent, entrepreneurial mothers. That is how this subject was put on the table. Subsequently, we tabled a bill. Minister Willy Borsus had said that it was a good idea. We had received his support, which made us happy. After a reshuffle of government, Willy Borsus had been replaced by Denis Ducarme, Minister of SMEs, who had reiterated that it was a good idea and that he wanted to implement it. Without setting out all the history, the government fell by the end of last year - it won't have escaped anyone here - and the bill has never been implemented. The Economy Committee had to take up the text and work together with several political groups. The text that is being put to the vote today is the result of constructive work between several political groups that had tabled a text on paternity leave and birth allowance for the self-employed. It is important to stress that, on certain subjects such as this, we can work together between different political groups, beyond the traditional majority/opposition divides, even though during this current business period these borders are already less clear than before. Why is this proposal important to Ecolo-Groen for a long time? There are two main reasons. The first concerns the balance between family and working life. Today, the working lives of self-employed people are increasingly difficult, complicated and subject to stress and pressure. Work-related illnesses, both for employees and for self-employed people, are subject to an increase. Today there is clearly an increasing demand for reconciliation of working life, often very busy and stressful, especially for the self-employed, with family life, especially when it grows and welcomes a new child. This is an important signal to the world of work. Independent dads and independent co-parents should be encouraged to take more care of family life and assist mothers when a new child arrives. This important signal meets expectations for a decent 21st century labour market and working conditions. This is the first element which, for us, is very important with regard to the balance between family and working life. The second is the equal treatment of employees and self-employed persons, which is also very important to us, in topics such as this, i.e. the reception of a new child. There can be no discrimination between employees who today have ten days of paternity leave and the self-employed who today have nothing at all. For us, this is a horrific injustice. For employees, this leave is already a reality, and it is very good like that. My group, Ecolo-Groen, even wants to lengthen it. This kind of injustice, as in other areas, between statutes, is no longer acceptable when it comes to the care of a new child. The family should be encouraged and supported and involved in family tasks at that time. No distinction should be made between statutes. This proposal, which puts in place ten days of paternity leave for the self-employed, redresses the unacceptable injustice that exists today between the various statutes. As I said, this is a compromise, which was co-signed by several political groups and voted unanimously in the Committee on the Economy. We have come to a proposal that puts in place ten days of optional paternity leave. They are self-employed and need to be given some flexibility. It is possible to take these leave in half days. A request had been made to that effect. In addition, it is a text that we have all wanted to be inclusive, regardless of family composition. It is therefore addressed to both dads and co-parents, regardless of the type of family and the family composition. Each, each, co-parent, parent, obviously has the right to such leave at the time of the birth and arrival of a new child. This leave may be taken within four months, as is the case for employees. It was a demand from the sector. We believe that if a system is to be set up for the self-employed, it must be of the same quality as that of the employees. Finally, additional service titles are also provided if the self-employed can only take up to eight days off instead of the ten. This additional support is the result of a compromise between different parties. Today we give a very important signal to the more than 1,100,000 independents, two thirds of whom are men and therefore potential future dads. I am pleased that we can support this text unanimously.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, like the previous speaker, I think that we can be pleased that, in this current business context, a number of advances in the social law of the self-employed have been possible. A week ago, in the Committee on the Economy, we were able to pass a bill to better protect the self-employed in a situation of illness. We're seeing him again today. With the vote that will take place, we hope, just now, we will introduce paternity leave for the self-employed. Self-employed fathers will now have an optional ten-day leave to be taken within four months of delivery and extended to co-parents, just like wage-earners. At the same time, we have also arranged some differences with the social system of salaried workers. On the one hand, the self-employed will be able to split their days of leave into half-days and, on the other hand, they will be able to choose either ten days of leave, like the employees, or eight days of leave maximum and fifteen service titles. Such accommodation may be justified in view of the specificities of the work of the self-employed. Again, I am pleased with my group that all the democratic groups have been able to work constructively, as has been said, to achieve a very positive but delayed result. You have to say that, too. It has been a long time since we talked about this issue, which took a long time to reach the vote today. However, we have benefited from the support of the organisations representing the self-employed and from the hearings of the UCM and the SNI, which, like the League of Families, supported this approach. The file has skated at length for other reasons that I have never really understood. For a long time, Minister Ducrame told us he was looking for an available budget. Last November, during the discussion on his policy note, he said he was still seeking agreement in the Council of Ministers. There has been the fall of the government and this period of day-to-day business that allows us to finalize – and that is happy – this issue. It doesn't matter what the reason for the blockage is. Today we are giving an important signal for the strengthening of the bond between father and child, an important signal for equality between men and women and an important signal for equality between wage-earners and self-employed workers. That is why our group will enthusiastically vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the introduction of paternity leave for self-employed workers is the result of joint work with several parliamentary groups, but also with the two successive competent ministers, Ministers Borsus and Ducrame. The objectives of this measure in favour of self-employed fathers are multiple. In particular, it aims to eliminate a difference in treatment between employed and self-employed fathers. Since 2002, paid fathers have been entitled to a ten-day period of absence for the birth of a child. This measure meets the expectations of the self-employed in terms of reconciliation between private and professional life, which I believe is essential and very important. Our proposal has also been drafted to fully meet the expectations of the self-employed for simplicity and flexibility. We therefore had to legislate so that they could, according to their profession and in case of hazards, find solutions. With the possibility of taking half-day leave – this very innovative measure allows the self-employed to adapt – within four months – we are showing flexibility here – we are responding to the realities of the self-employed who, during their paternity leave, must nevertheless continue to devote part of their time to running their business or business. The allowance is fixed (€80.82) for a full day. The paternity allowance amounts to a total of 808.20 euros. As in employee schemes, in addition to male self-employed persons, co-parents will also be entitled to such leave. To complement this scheme, the proposal provides that self-employed workers concerned may also choose to temporarily discontinue their employment for a period of up to eight days. In this case, they will receive 15 free service titles. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an important step forward which will apply in a few weeks' time, i.e. from 1 May next. In conclusion, our group fully supports the objectives of this bill, which improves the social status of self-employed workers, and we therefore invite you to vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the CD&V Group submitted its own legislative proposal one and a half years ago to introduce paternity leave for the self-employed in order to eliminate the inequality that still existed. In the workers' system there is paternity leave, for self-employed workers there was nothing for birth leave for fathers. Fortunately, we have also been able to achieve an extension of maternity rest for self-employed mothers. I think it is only logical that we should now also take the step to create an opportunity for independent fathers to take birth leave. As some Members have already said, it is a possibility, it is not a must. We respect the choice of the independent father in question, but if he still wants to take leave, he can take a leave of up to ten days. The proposal drawn up by different parties is in the middle of the various legislative proposals put forward by the separate groups. I think this is a very good proposal. I am pleased that we have been able to work well together on this in committee and that we will soon be able to adopt this proposal with the support of all the groups in this plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all the Members who have worked on this. We can all underline that it is a beautiful evolution that we can say in 2019 that daddies also want to take care of their children. That in itself is a fine merit of this spirit of time. Our group considers it important to underline that we have changed the name of the bill to birth leave rather than paternity leave, because we think it is important that the meemamas should be part of this story. Sometimes semantics are important. We also consider it essential that there is a choice, that daddies and the mermaids have the choice whether or not to take leave, although the other system teaches us that the vast majority of daddies take paternity leave. In that respect, it is eagerly looking forward to next year to seeing the first figures. It's been a fascinating time on the committee. These proposals have been on the table for a long time. We have been able to make a good shift over the last few weeks, and we will probably do so on other proposals. It is good that we have been able to adopt these proposals unanimously.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u37	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u38	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3532/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3532/3) The bill has 8 articles. The bill has 8 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u39	In Article 3, Articles 53a/1 to 53a/6 Article adopted by article.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u40	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u41	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Sandrine De Crom, Caroline Cassart-Mailleux, Tim Vandenput, Jean-Jacques Flahaux.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u42	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Nele Lijnen, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour and a pleasure for me to be able to put this legislative proposal to the vote today. The proposal was adopted unanimously in the Infrastructure Committee, for which I thank Members. I hope that we will also be able to obtain the unanimous approval of this House this evening. I would also like to thank my predecessor, Mrs Sabine Lahaye-Battheu, for the work she has done on the subject. What is it really about? Let me give you a brief explanation. It concerns middle-class drivers who, according to the Vias survey, are the biggest source of irritation in traffic. Middle-class driving is obviously a violation. To this day, that's a first-degree violation. Catching up on the right, on the other hand, is an infringement of the second degree, although that infringement is clearly a result of the first offense. So I did not think it was fair and useful to fine both cases in a different way. With the proposal before us today, middle-class driving will also be a second-degree violation. A small technical remark has yet to be made. There is a draft royal decree of Minister Bellot, which is currently in the palace. That Royal Decree regulates the categorization of the infringements and also includes the introduction of an Article 13°/1. There is also a provision 13°/1 in this legislative proposal. We would therefore like to replace 13°/1 with 13°/2, which is a minor technical adjustment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u44	Mrs. De Crom, excuse me for interrupting. That seems to me to be an effective technical adjustment and therefore not a real amendment. With your approval, we will approve this amendment in general. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u45	Mr. Speaker, today the House is about to vote on an important text that is of particular interest to me. Road safety remains, as you know, one of my concerns. One fact particularly challenges me: centrist motorists who do not fall back to the right after an overtaking manoeuvre are, for the moment, less severely punished than motorists who, because of this behavior, exceed them by the right. This situation is simply incoherent. The Vias Institute has given the centrists the golden palm of incivility, which is, you will agree, not surprising. I was particularly concerned about the results of this survey: 27% of the drivers interviewed say that not falling back to the right is the most irritating behaviour on motorways. In addition to this irritation, this type of behaviour leads to many accidents. And yet, at present, the motorist who does not take up his place is less punished than the motorist who, as a result, exceeds him by the right. This situation can no longer continue. It's about our safety. We support all the objectives aimed at reducing the number of road accidents. We must therefore be empowered to do so through concrete actions and adequately sanction such behaviour. This bill will allow the same sanctions to be imposed on both types of offences. Consequently, the police judge may impose an equivalent penalty for these two offences. Colleagues, this amendment to the Royal Decree of 30 September 2005 goes without saying and will allow for an appropriate regulatory framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u46	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u47	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2986/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2986/6) The title was changed by the Committee to "draft amending the Royal Decree of 30 September 2005 on the designation of offences per degree of the general regulations taken to implement the law on the police on road traffic, as regards not reinserting the right after catching up." The title has been amended by the commission to "proposal for a law amending the Royal Decree of 30 September 2005 designating offences by degree to the general regulations made pursuant to the Law on the Road Traffic Police, in respect of the fact that it does not fall back to the right after an overtaking". The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u48	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u49	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Karine Lalieux, Gwenaëlle Grovonius, Laurent Devin. The Committee on Infrastructure, Transport and Public Enterprises proposes that this bill be rejected. (2991/2) The Committee on Infrastructure, Communications and Public Enterprises proposes to reject this bill. (2991/2) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the author. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the author. The rapporteur, Mr Marcel Cheron, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, briefly, the social tariff is financed by the telecoms sector and it is a reduction in the telecoms bill for the most vulnerable. This reduction has not changed since 2002 despite rising rates that go beyond inflation. This proposal simply made it possible to index the social rate and catch up by increasing the current amount by 7.5%. The entire anti-poverty sector had given a positive opinion, as had the IBPT. Unfortunately, colleagues in the old majority did not find it useful to support the most vulnerable and to fight the digital divide. I'm sorry. That is why I have brought Mr Flahaux back to plenary, hoping that he has changed his mind because I know how much he wants to support the most vulnerable people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u51	No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place later. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u52	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Laurent Devin, Karine Lalieux, Gwenaëlle Grovonius. The Committee on Infrastructure, Transport and Public Enterprises proposes that this bill be rejected. (3196/2) The Committee on Infrastructure, Communications and Public Enterprises proposes to reject this bill. (3196/2) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the author. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the author. The rapporteur, Mr Cheron, referred to the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u53	Mr President, the mobility problems facing our country have major impacts in terms of air quality, quality of life, public spending, climate and economic activity. Road congestion is a daily problem. Thousands of motorists lose valuable time in traffic jams every day. Brussels and Antwerp are among the world's top traffic congestion targets. In Antwerp, motorists lose an average of 34 minutes a day, i.e. a 30 per cent longer journey time without traffic congestion. This is 7% higher than in 2008. In Brussels, it's even worse. The driver loses an average of 44 minutes, 38% longer than without traffic jams. Here too, it's on the rise every year. In view of the health, environmental and economic problems posed by road transport, it is therefore essential for public authorities to promote alternatives that limit the use of private cars. In order to achieve this goal, there is not a single solution; it must involve multiple measures taken at all levels of power. Here, with my excellent colleagues Mrs Lalieux and Mrs Grovonius, we offer you some of the solution. We want to give a train subscription to citizens who give up their own cars. In other words, any person who renounces the use of a car and returns his license plate to the DIV will be entitled, under certain conditions, to a free subscription on a fixed round trip per day for a period of three years. The beneficiary undertakes to abandon a car and thus reduce by one unit the number of cars registered in his household in order to receive a free subscription to his name. As regards the financing of this measure, the financing of SNCB will have to be increased in order to cover all the costs associated with the implementation of this law. This mechanism is similar to that developed by STIB, TEC and De Lijn. In order to encourage a modal shift from the individual car to the rail, we therefore propose that SNCB grant a similar advantage over its network. I also spoke on behalf of Mrs Grovonius and Mrs Lalieux.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u54	No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place later. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u55	At the request of the author and in accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 February 2019, I propose the legislative proposal (Mr Christian Brotcorne) amending the Income Tax Code 1992 in order to fully deduct legal aid premiums, No. 677/1, refer to the Committee on Finance and the Budget in order to include it in the debate on the legislative proposal (Mrs Griet Smaers and Mr Leen Dierick and Mr Gautier Calomne) to make legal aid insurance more accessible, no. 3560/1. At the request of the author and in accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 February 2019, I propose that you refer to the Committee on Finance and the Budget the proposal for a law (Mr Christian Brotcorne) amending the Income Tax Code 1992 to allow the total deductibility of "legal protection" insurance premiums, No. 677/1, in order to attach it to the discussion of the bill (Mrs Griet Smaers and Leen Dierick and Mr Gautier Calomne) to make legal protection insurance more accessible, No. 3560/1. The bill was sent to the Justice Commission on 9 June 2016. This bill had previously been referred to the Justice Committee on 9 June 2016. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. At the request of the proposers and in accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 February 2019, I propose the legislative proposal (Mrs Conseil Degroote, Mr Koen Metsu and Mr Brecht Vermeulen) amending the law of 6 December 2005 on the distribution of part of the federal road safety revenue, No. 348/1, to be referred to the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Public Service. At the request of the authors and in accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 February 2019, I propose that you refer the bill to the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service (MM. Koenraad Degroote, Koen Metsu and Brecht Vermeulen) amending the Act of 6 December 2005 on the allocation of part of federal road safety revenues, No 3448/1. The bill was sent to the Commission for Infrastructure, Transport and Public Enterprises on 17 January 2019. This bill was referred to the Committee on Infrastructure, Communications and Public Enterprises on 17 January 2019. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u56	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 20 December 2018, a call to candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 21 January 2019 for the renewal of half of the mandates of the members of the Notarial Appointment Committees, in particular the replacement of the members appointed by the plenary session of 2 February 2017 for a period of two years. In accordance with the decision of the plenary meeting of 20 December 2018, a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Moniteur of 21 January 2019 for the renewal of half of the terms of office of the members of the Appointment Committees for the notariat, in particular for the replacement of the members who were appointed for a period of two years by the plenary meeting of 2 February 2017. As a result of the resignation of a working member (magistraat) of the Dutch-speaking Appointment Committee and the replacement by his alternate, a call to candidates for the mandate of Dutch-speaking Deputy Member (magistraat) of the Appointment Committees was published in the same report in the Belgian Official Journal, in accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 17 January 2019. Following the resignation of an effective member (magistrate) of the Netherlands Language Appointment Commission and the replacement by his alternate, in the same notice to the Belgian Moniteur, a call was published for candidates for the term of office of Dutch-speaking alternate member (magistrate), in accordance with the decisions of the plenary meeting of 17 January 2019. The following mandates of the Appointment Committees should therefore be renewed: two magistrates (1 N + 1 F) and two external members (1 N + 1 F) for the working members; one magistrate (1 N), two professors/teachers (1 N + 1 F) and two external members (1 N + 1 F) for the alternate members. The following terms of appointment of the Commissions of Appointment must therefore be renewed: two judges (1 F + N) and two external members (1 F + 1 N) for the actual members; one magistrate (1 N), two professors/teachers (1 F + 1 N) and two external members (1 F + 1 N) for the alternate members. Enough applications were submitted for the Dutch Appointments Committee for the various mandates. For the Dutch-speaking Commission, sufficient nominations have been made for the various mandates. Insufficient applications were submitted for the French-speaking Appointments Committee. Applications were submitted only for the term of office of working member for the category "External member'. No applications were submitted for the mandates of working member for the category "Magistraat' and of alternate member for the categories "Magistraat' and "Magistraat'. On the other hand, for the Commission de nomination de langue française, too few applications have been submitted. Nominations were submitted for the term of office as an effective member, an external member category only. For the term of office as an effective member, as a magistrat and as an alternate member, as a teacher/teacher and as an external member, no nomination has been submitted. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 February 2019, I propose to publish a second appeal to the candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandates of French-speaking member for the category "Magistraat' and of French-speaking alternate member for the categories "Magistraat' and "Magistraat'. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 February 2019, I propose that you publish a second call for candidates to the Belgian Monitor for the terms of effective French-speaking member for the category "magistrate" and alternate French-speaking member for the categories "professor/charged of courses" and "external member". Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u57	The next item is the vote on the appointment of alternate members and members of the Bureau of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisoners. The next item is the election for the appointment of alternate members and members of the Bureau of the Central Prison Supervision Board. The Central Supervisory Board shall consist of twelve effective members and twelve alternate members appointed by the Chamber by a two-thirds majority of the votes cast. The Central Prison Supervision Board consists of twelve effective members and twelve alternate members who are appointed by the Chamber by a two-thirds majority of the votes cast. The Central Supervisory Board shall have at least among its alternate members: - two Dutch speakers and two French speakers who hold a Master's degree in Law, including at least one Dutch-speaking and one French-speaking magistrate of the seat; - one Dutch-speaking doctor and one French-speaking doctor. The Central Supervisory Board shall include among its alternate members at least: - two French-speaking and two Dutch-speaking nationals who hold a Master's degree in law, including at least one French-speaking and one Dutch-speaking magistrate; - a French-speaking doctor and a Dutch-speaking doctor. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 24 (7) of the Law of 12 January 2005 on the prison system and the legal status of the detainees, the Member whose term of office expires before the expiry of the five-year period shall be replaced for the remainder by his alternate. In accordance with article 24, paragraph 7, paragraph 3, of the Act of 12 January 2005 on the prison system and the legal status of detainees, the member whose term of office ends before the expiry of the five-year term shall be replaced by his alternate for the remainder of the term of office. The Chamber should therefore appoint a specific alternate for each effective member, taking into account the conditions set out above. For each effective member, the Chamber must therefore appoint a specific alternate member while taking into account the conditions set out above. The Chamber of Representatives should appoint a Bureau among the effective members, consisting of two Dutch-speaking and two French-speaking members, of which at least one member holds a Master's degree in Law per language role. The House of Representatives must appoint from among the actual members a Bureau, composed of two French-speaking members and two Dutch-speaking members, of which at least one member per linguistic role holds a Master's degree in law. The list of candidates was distributed on the banks. (3531/1) The list of candidates was distributed on the benches. (3531/1) By e-mail dated 8 February 2019, Mr Tony Vermeulen withdrew his candidacy for the mandate of Dutch-speaking member of the Bureau. By e-mail dated February 8, 2019, Tony Vermeulen withdrew his candidacy for the Dutch-speaking Bureau membership. However, I would draw your attention to the fact that we should not vote for both mandates of Dutch-speaking members of the Bureau. There are only two candidates for these mandates. As a result, Mrs Valérie Arickx and Mr Ralf Bas, pursuant to Rule 157, 6, of the Chamber Regulations, elected as Dutch-speaking members of the Bureau of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prison Office. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that there is no need for a vote on the two terms of office of Dutch-speaking members of the Bureau. Indeed, there are only two candidates for these terms. I therefore declare Ms. Valérie Arickx and Mr. Ralf Bas elected, pursuant to Rule 157, No. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber, as Dutch-speaking members of the Bureau of the Central Prison Supervision Board. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. As far as the French-speaking candidates are concerned, I would draw your attention to the fact that they are all holders of a master's degree in law. As far as Francophone candidates are concerned, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that they all hold a master's degree in law. The ballots have already been distributed. Ballot papers have already been distributed. You received three ballots. A ballot for the Dutch-speaking alternate members, a ballot for the French-speaking alternate members and a ballot for the French-speaking members of the Bureau. You received three ballot papers. A ballot paper for French-speaking alternate members, a ballot paper for Dutch-speaking alternate members and a ballot paper for French-speaking members of the Bureau. The two ballots for alternate members comprise two shutters: - on the one hand, the names of the six effective members, for each of them an alternate shall be appointed. There is a voting box next to each candidate; - on the other hand, a model list above which there is one voting box. The two ballot papers for the alternate members consist of two parts: - on the one hand, the names of the six effective members, for each of them an alternate member must be appointed. Each name shall be preceded by a voting box; - on the other hand, a model list with a lead box. Members who agree with the model list are requested to place a cross in the voting box above the model list. Members who join the template list are asked to draw a cross in the top box of the template list. Those who, on the other hand, do not wish to approve this model list may, per effective member, place a cross in the box opposite the name of the chosen candidate. Each member is thus free to vote for the candidates of his choice. Members who do not approve this model list may, for each effective member, draw a cross in the box opposite the name of the selected candidate. Each member is thus free to vote for the candidates of his or her choice. The ballots shall be invalid if both votes are cast. The combination of these two methods of voting results in the nullity of the ballot papers. Vote notes with more votes than there are mandates are invalid. Ballot papers containing more votes than there are warrants to be filled shall be void. As the vote is secret, the ballots must not be signed. Due to the secret nature of the ballot, ballot papers cannot be signed. First we have to put together one or two desks of voters by drawing lots. Each bureau shall be composed of four members. I propose, however, that the last two Members who have taken their seats at the Bureau today should be nominated for the vote. We must first draw lots from one or two offices of deputy returning officers, each composed of four members, who will be responsible for the counting. I suggest, however, that you appoint the two youngest members to the bureau this day to take the ballots. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Mr Kristof Calvo and Mrs Yoleen Van Camp were appointed to record the votes. Mr. Kristof Calvo and Ms. Yoleen Van Camp were appointed to vote. I suggest that the ballots be counted in the conference room, in the presence of the voters. I propose that you proceed to the counting of the ballots in the Conference Hall, in the presence of the deputy returning officers. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I would ask every Member to place his unsigned ballot papers in the ballot boxes when calling his name. Please come along my left side to the speaker's seat and leave it on my right side. At the call of his name, each member is asked to submit his unsigned ballot papers in the ballot boxes, going up to the rostrum, from my left to my right. I invite the voters from the names to call. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u58	Did everyone vote? Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? I declare the vote closed. I invite the voters to proceed to the vote. I declare the ballot closed and invite the deputy returning officers to proceed with the counting.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u59	The next item is the secret ballot for the appointment of the first and second vice-chairmen of the Standing Committee on the Control of Intelligence and Security Services. The next item is the election to appoint the first and second alternate chairs of the Standing Committee on the Review of Intelligence and Security Services. On 25 September 2018, Mr Serge Lipszyc took the oath as Chairman of the Committee I. On 25 September 2018, Mr.Serge Lipszyc was sworn in as Chairman of the R Committee. The applications were announced at the plenary session of 7 February 2019. Nominations were announced in plenary on February 7, 2019. The Special Committee responsible for the parliamentary supervision of the P and I Committees heard both candidates on 19 February 2019. Mr André Frédéric reported on this hearing at the Conference of Presidents of 20 February 2019. The special committee responsible for parliamentary support of Committees P and R heard the two candidates on 19 February 2019. André Frédéric reported on these hearings in the Conference of Presidents on 20 February 2019. The document containing the names of the candidates was distributed. (3582/1) The document bearing the names of the candidates has been distributed to you. (3582/1) The ballots have already been distributed. Ballot papers have already been distributed. As the vote is secret, the ballots must not be signed. Due to the secret nature of the ballot, ballot papers cannot be signed. To vote one has to place a cross in the box next to the name of the chosen candidate. The votes cast on more than one candidate shall be invalid. A vote should be taken by drawing a cross in the box opposite the name of the selected candidate. The votes cast in favour of more than one candidate are void. First we have to put together one or two desks of voters by drawing lots. Each bureau shall be composed of four members. I propose, however, that the last two Members who have taken their seats at the Bureau today should be nominated for the vote. We must first draw lots from one or two offices of deputy returning officers, each composed of four members, who will be responsible for the counting. I suggest, however, that you appoint the two youngest members to the bureau this day to take the ballots. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Mr Kristof Calvo and Mrs Yoleen Van Camp were appointed to record the votes. Mr. Kristof Calvo and Ms. Yoleen Van Camp were appointed to vote. I suggest that the ballots be counted in the conference room, in the presence of the voters. I propose that you proceed to the counting of the ballots in the Conference Hall, in the presence of the deputy returning officers. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. I would ask every Member to put his unsigned ballot paper in the ballot box when calling his name. Please come along my left side to the speaker's seat and leave it on my right side. At the call of his name, each member is asked to submit his unsigned ballot in the ballot box, going up to the rostrum, from my left to my right. I invite the voters from the names to call. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u60	Did everyone vote? Did everyone put their ballot in the ballot box? The vote is closed. I invite the voters to proceed to the vote. I declare the ballot closed and invite the deputy returning officers to proceed with the counting.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u61	The Government has requested urgent procedure pursuant to Rule 51 of its Rules of Procedure when submitting the draft law opening provisional appropriations for the months April, May, June and July 2019, No. 3587/1. The government requested urgency pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure at the time of the tabling of the draft law opening provisional appropriations for the months of April, May, June and July 2019, No. 3587/1. I propose that we speak on this question in the usual way, but I do not know whether the government's justification is necessary in this case. Are there any MPs who ask the government to justify the request for urgency, because it is self-evident? [[No.]] I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u62	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 February 2019, I also propose that you consider: - the motion for a resolution (Mr David Geerts and Mrs Karin Temmerman) on the role played by SNCB in the transport of Jews and deportation of Jews during the Second World War, No. 3596/1; - the bill (Mr Emmanuel Burton cs) amending the Law of 19 May 2010 establishing the Crossroads Bank of the vehicles, No. 3604/1; - the motion for a resolution (Mr Veli Yüksel) requesting the Court of Auditors to examine the considerable delays in the renovation work of the Ghent-Sint-Pieters station, No. 3611/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u63	- the legislative proposal (Mr Dirk Janssens and Mrs Nathalie Muylle) amending the Law of 24 January 1977 on the protection of the health of consumers in respect of foodstuffs and other products as regards the sale, gift and supply of alcoholic beverages to minors, No. 3598/1; - the legislative proposal (Mr Dirk Janssens and Mr Damien Thiéry) amending the law of 25 March 1964 on medicinal products, No. 3599/1; - the motion for a resolution (Mrs Sarah Schlitz and Mrs Anne Dedry) on the recognition of dental prosthetics as a health profession, No. 3610/1; - the bill (Mrs Nathalie Muylle) for the recognition of clinical sexuologists, No. 3613/1; - the motion for a resolution (Mrs Nathalie Muylle) on MS care unit Belgium, No. 3615/1; - the legislative proposal (Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne and Mrs Ine Somers) on the granting of a lump sum to persons suffering from congenital malformations resulting from the taking of medicines containing thalidomide by the mother during pregnancy, No. 3622/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u64	- the legislative proposal (Mrs Caroline Cassart-Mailleux cs) on the compulsory insurance of civil professional liability of architects, surveyors, safety and health coordinators and other service providers in the construction sector of immovable property and amending various legal provisions relating to civil liability insurance in the construction sector, No. 3602 /1; - the legislative proposal (Mrs Griet Smaers and Mrs Leen Dierick) amending book I 'Definitions', book XV 'Legal enforcement' and replacing book IV 'Protection of competition' in the Code of Economic Law, No. 3621/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u65	- the bill (Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Gautier Calomne and Mr Vincent Scourneau) amending the law of 19 April 1963 establishing a public institution called 'Royal Montschouwburg' and the law of 22 April 1958 on the statute of the National Orchestra of Belgium, No. 3603/1; - the bill (Mr Luk Van Biesen and Mr Dirk Van Mechelen) amending Royal Decree No. 20 of 20 July 1970 fixing the rates for value added tax and for the classification of goods and services at such rates as regards certain publications, 3619/1; - the bill (Mr Luk Van Biesen and Mr Dirk Van Mechelen) on various financial provisions, No. 3624/1, - the bill (Mr Luk Van Biesen cs) introducing the Code of Friendly and Forced Recovery of Tax and Non-fiscal Claims, No. 3625/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u66	- the legislative proposal (Mr Damien Thiéry, Mr Tim Vandenput and Mr Hendrik Bogaert) amending the law of 16 May 2001 on the status of military personnel in the military reserve framework, No. 3605/1; - the bill (Mrs Damien Thiéry, Tim Vandenput and Hendrik Bogaert) amending the Act of 30 August 2013 establishing a limited-term military career, No. 3606/1; - the bill (Mr Damien Thiéry, Mr Tim Vandenput and Mr Hendrik Bogaert) amending Article 73 of the Law of 16 May 2001 on the Staff Regulations of the Military Reserves, No. 3607/1; - the bill (Mr Damien Thiéry cs) amending various provisions relating to the recruitment and professional evaluation of the military, No. 3608/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u67	- the legislative proposal (Mrs Els Van Hoof) amending Article 1408 of the Legal Code with a view to a revision of the list of non-disposable physical property, No. 3614/1; - the bill (Mrs Sonja Becq and Mr Raf Terwingen) inserting book 3 "Goods" into the new Civil Code, No. 3623/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u68	- the bill (Mr Vincent Van Peteghem) prohibiting management agreements for government directors, No. 3616/1; - the legislative proposal (Mrs Katja Gabriels and Mrs Sandrine De Crom) laying down various provisions on asylum and migration and amending the Law of 15 December 1980 on entry into the territory, residence, establishment and expulsion of foreign nationals, No. 3618/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u69	- the legislative proposal (Mr Stefaan Vercamer and Ms Nahima Lanjri) amending the Act of 26 June 2002 on the closure of undertakings, No. 3620/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u70	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 February 2019, I also propose that you take into account: - the motion for a resolution (Mr David Geerts and Mrs Karin Temmerman) on the conduct of an inquiry into the role played by SNCB in railway convoys and the deportation of Jews during the Second World War, No. 3596/1; - the proposal for a law (Mr Emmanuel Burton et al.) amending the Act of 19 May 2010 establishing the Carrefour desVehicles Bank, No. 3604/1; - the motion for a resolution (Mr Veli Yüksel) asking the Court of Auditors to examine the considerable delays in the renovation of the Ghent-Saint-Pierre station, No 3611/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u71	- the proposal for a law (Mr Dirk Janssens and Mrs Nathalie Muylle) amending the Law of 24 January 1977 on the protection of consumer health, as regards foodstuffs and other products, with regard to the sale, service and supply of beverages and alcoholic products to minors, No 3598/1; - the bill (MM. Dirk Janssens and Damien Thiéry) amending the Law of 25 March 1964 on medicinal products with regard to the unavailability of medicinal products, No 3599/1; - the motion for a resolution (Ms Sarah Schlitz and Anne Dedry) on the recognition of denturology among the health care professions, No 3610/1; - the bill (Ms Nathalie Muylle) on the recognition of clinician sexologists, No. 3613/1; - the motion for a resolution (Ms Nathalie Muylle) on the establishment of a SEP Unit in Belgium, No. 3615/1; - the proposal for a law (Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne and Mrs Ine Somers) on the granting of a lump sum for persons suffering from congenital malformations due to ingestion by their mothers during pregnancy of thalidomide-containing medicines, No 3622/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u72	- the proposal for a law (Ms Caroline Cassart-Mailleux et al.) on compulsory insurance for the professional liability of architects, surveyors-experts, health security coordinators and other providers of construction and amending various legal provisions on liability insurance in the construction sector, No. 3602/1; - the bill (Ms Griet Smaers and Leen Dierick) amending Book I "Definitions", Book XV "Application of the Law" and the replacement of Book IV "Protection of Competition" in the Code of Economic Law, No. 3621/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u73	- the bill (MM. Benoît Piedboeuf, Gautier Calomne and Vincent Scourneau) amending the Act of 19 April 1963 establishing a public establishment known as the Royal Mint Theatre" and the Act of 22 April 1958 on the status of the National Orchestra of Belgium, No. 3603/1; - the bill (MM. Luk Van Biesen and Dirk Van Mechelen) amending Royal Decree No 20 of 20 July 1970 fixing the rates of value added tax and determining the distribution of goods and services according to those rates in respect of certain publications, No 3619/1; - the bill (MM. Luk Van Biesen and Dirk Van Mechelen) with various financial provisions, No 3624/1; - the draft law (Mr. Luk Van Biesen et al.) introducing the Code on the amicable and forced collection of tax and non-tax claims, No. 3625/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u74	- the bill (MM. Damien Thiéry, Tim Vandenput and Hendrik Bogaert) amending the Act of 16 May 2001 on the Status of Military Members of the Reserve Framework of the Armed Forces, No. 3605/1; - the bill (MM. Damien Thiéry, Tim Vandenput and Hendrik Bogaert) amending the Act of 30 August 2013 establishing a military career of limited duration, No. 3606/1; - the bill (MM. Damien Thiéry, Tim Vandenput and Hendrik Bogaert) amending Article 73 of the Law of 16 May 2001 on the Status of Military Members of the Reserve Framework of the Armed Forces, No. 3607/1; - the draft law (Mr Damien Thiéry et al.) amending various provisions relating to the recruitment and professional evaluation of military personnel, No. 3608/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u75	- the bill (Ms. Els Van Hoof) amending article 1408 of the Judicial Code with a view to revising the list of elusive tangible property, No. 3614/1; - the draft law (Ms. Sonja Becq and Mr. Raf Terwingen) incorporating Book 3 "Goods" into the new Civil Code, No. 3623/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u76	- the bill (Mr. Vincent Van Peteghem) prohibiting the use of management contracts to public administrators, No. 3616/1; - the draft law (Ms. Katja Gabriëls and Sandrine De Crom) on various provisions on asylum and migration and amending the Act of 15 December 1980 on the entry, residence, establishment and removal of aliens, No. 3618/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u77	- the proposal for a law (Mr Stefaan Vercamer and Ms Nahima Lanjri) amending the Act of 26 June 2002 on company closures, No. 3620/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u78	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u79	Mr President, I would like to ask for the urgency of the bill (No. 3604) amending the Act of 19 May 2010 establishing the Carrefour des Véhicules Bank. Indeed, at the consultation committees at the end of 2017, the Flemish Region stressed the need for it to have as soon as possible access to registration data for foreign vehicles in the context of the low-emission zones and the kilometric charge for heavy goods vehicles. Without this access, it is impossible for the Regions to effectively verbalize foreign offenders. This leads to both a decrease in the effectiveness of these measures, an injustice compared to the offenders, whose vehicles are registered in Belgium, and a loss of profits for the Regions. These two consultation committees have finally found that the federal government is currently preparing a bill allowing, like the Netherlands and Germany, the exchange of registration data with foreign authorities in the context of road charges or restrictions, including those from the regions in the event of reciprocity. Furthermore, this project is also necessary in order to implement a protocol amending the Treaty on a European vehicle and driving licence information system. The aim of the Protocol is, in particular, to exchange national registration data through national contact points with services other than police services - customs authorities, judicial services and State security - provided that for this purpose there is a clear legal basis at European and national international level.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u80	Colleagues, a little silence.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u81	The present amendment therefore seeks to remedy the absence of such national legislation in Belgium. For these reasons, it is therefore urgent to publish this law, which will enable the regional authorities to better combat offences committed by foreign vehicles and relating to low-emission zones and the kilometric charge for heavy goods vehicles.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u82	Mr President, since this is an important issue, I would ask the urgency of my motion for a resolution No. 3611. Over the past few years, in the Infrastructure Committee, I have repeatedly raised the major delays in the renovation work of the Ghent-Sint-Pieters station. Yesterday it appeared that Minister Bellot could not give the cost and the budgets for the first phase. The works have been shut down for two years now. A new contractor for the second phase has still not been found. In addition, the construction plan has been changed and a new building application has to be submitted. Ladies and gentlemen, Ghent-Sint-Pieters is one of the busiest stations in our country, but the amateur approach with millions of euros of tax money is now in danger of becoming a blunder. That's unworthy of a public body. I believe that the Court should order the Court of Auditors to investigate the legality and regularity of certain expenditure programmes, as well as to carry out financial audits. I therefore ask that the Court of Auditors investigate what has gone wrong here and how we can avoid these mistakes in the future. There must be clarity in the matter, and preferably as soon as possible, in the interests of the tens of thousands of commuters, in the interests of train users and in the interests of taxpayers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we first take a decision on the urgency of Mr Burton's bill (point 3604).
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u84	We shall now take a decision on the urgency of Mr Yüksel's motion for a resolution (No. 3611).
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u85	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u86	Mr President, I have concluded a voting agreement with Mrs Dedry for all the votes this evening.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u87	It's been noted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u88	Mr President, for this vote and the following, I have accompanied Mrs Jadin.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u89	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 104 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 118 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3381/11) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3381/11) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u90	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 118 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 118 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (3230/8) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (3230/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u91	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 90 Yes No. 5 No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 118 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3495/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3495/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u92	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 106 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 11 Abstensions Total 118 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3459/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3459/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u93	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes [[115]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 115 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3460/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3460/4) Mrs Nele Lijnen and Mr Luk Van Biesen and Mr Jef Van den Bergh voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u94	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u95	Mr President, as in committee, my group will abstain from this vote. However, we support two important priorities of the bilateral cooperation agreement with Senegal, namely the development of the private sector and the development of employment and decent work. We believe that these two themes may address the root causes of irregular migration. Unfortunately, the draft law was tabled following the fall of the Michael I government. We therefore read it as a draft law on current matters. Minister De Croo himself indicated that Article 3 of the Bill allows the Minister to conclude special, specific agreements that transcend the initial agreement. That is an excessive delegation of powers for us to a retiring minister. We asked in committee to delete that article. Unfortunately, that was not possible, despite the fact that the agreement could be executed perfectly according to Article 2. We will not vote against, because we do not want to jeopardize the 2018-2022 country portfolio or Enabel's mission, but we will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u96	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 86 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 30 Abstensions Total 116 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3461/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3461/5) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mrs Patricia Ceysens voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u97	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my group supports the ratification of the London Protocol. However, I will abstain from expressing our disagreement with the form of this bill. Indeed, it is not in the tradition of the Committee on External Relations to consider a bill that ratifies several treaties at once. I know that in other committees it is customary for the government to introduce laws with various provisions, but it is absolutely not optimal for good parliamentary work, especially when a text deals with genetically modified organisms and relations between seed farmers and farmers. Let us hope that this will not happen again!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u99	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 64 Yes No. [[29]] No Abstentions 25 Abstensions Total 118 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3493/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3493/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u100	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 116 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 116 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3421/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3421/4) Ms. Nahima Lanjri and Mr. Benoît Piedboeuf voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u101	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 117 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 117 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3422/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3422/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u102	Vote on Amendment No 41 by Peter Buysrogge cs to dismiss application 8.d. (2655/10) Vote on Amendment No 41 by Peter Buysrogge cs to delete the request 8.d. ( 2655/10) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes [[25]] Yes No. 78 No Abstentions 15 Abstensions Total 118 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u103	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 51 Yes No. 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No Abstentions 60 Abstensions Total 114 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the mentioned international bodies. (2655/11) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the international bodies mentioned. (2655/11) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mrs Rita Bellens has voted like her group.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u104	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 117 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 118 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (3532/4) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (3532/4) Mr Filip Dewinter voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u105	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes 117 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 117 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (2986/7) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (2986/7)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u106	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u107	Yes 71 Yes No. 44 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 117 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The Bill No. So 2991/1 was rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Bill No. 2991/1 is therefore rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]] Mrs Véronique Waterschoot and Mr Alain Mathot voted against.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u108	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u109	Yes 72 Yes No. [[42]] No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 118 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The Bill No. 3196/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Bill No. 3196/1 is therefore rejected. Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u110	Votes 108 Votants Blank or invalid 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. White or invalid Valid 106 Valables Two-thirds majority 71 Two-thirds majority Substitute of Ms Valérie Arickx Alternate by Ms Valérie Arickx Mr Raf Gerits received 106 votes. Mr. Raf Gerits obtained 106 votes. Mr Marc Allegaert received 0 votes. Mr. Marc Allegaert obtained 0 votes. Mr Henri Debucquoy received 0 votes. Mr. Henri Debucquoy obtained 0 votes. Mr Jan Decock received 0 votes. Mr. Jan Decock obtained 0 votes. Mr Norbert Verleyen received 0 votes. Mr. Norbert Verleyen obtained 0 votes. Mr Lode Goukens received 0 votes. Mr. Lode Goukens obtained 0 votes. Mr Pieter Houbey received 0 votes. Mr Pieter Houbey obtained 0 votes. Mr Raf Gerits, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was appointed alternate to Mrs Valérie Arickx. Mr Raf Gerits, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, was declared an alternate member of Mrs Valérie Arickx. Substitute of Mr Tony Van Parys Substitute of Mr. Tony Van Parys Mr Raf Gerits received 0 votes. Mr. Raf Gerits obtained 0 votes. Mr Marc Allegaert received 106 votes. Mr. Marc Allegaert obtained 106 votes. Mr Henri Debucquoy received 0 votes. Mr. Henri Debucquoy obtained 0 votes. Mr Jan Decock received 0 votes. Mr. Jan Decock obtained 0 votes. Mr Norbert Verleyen received 0 votes. Mr. Norbert Verleyen obtained 0 votes. Mr Lode Goukens received 0 votes. Mr. Lode Goukens obtained 0 votes. Mr Pieter Houbey received 0 votes. Mr Pieter Houbey obtained 0 votes. Mr Marc Allegaert, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was appointed alternate to Mr Tony Van Parys. Mr. Marc Allegaert, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, was declared an alternate member of Mr. Tony Van Parys. Substitute of Mr Walter Thiery Supplier de M. Walter Thiery Mr Raf Gerits received 0 votes. Mr. Raf Gerits obtained 0 votes. Mr Marc Allegaert received 0 votes. Mr. Marc Allegaert obtained 0 votes. Mr Henri Debucquoy received 106 votes. Mr. Henri Debucquoy obtained 106 votes. Mr Jan Decock received 0 votes. Mr. Jan Decock obtained 0 votes. Mr Norbert Verleyen received 0 votes. Mr. Norbert Verleyen obtained 0 votes. Mr Lode Goukens received 0 votes. Mr. Lode Goukens obtained 0 votes. Mr Pieter Houbey received 0 votes. Mr Pieter Houbey obtained 0 votes. Mr Henri Debucquoy, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was appointed alternate to Mr Walter Thiery. Mr Henri Debucquoy, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, was declared an alternate member of Mr Walter Thiery. Substitute of Mr Tony Vermeulen Alternate by Mr Tony Vermeulen Mr Raf Gerits received 0 votes. Mr. Raf Gerits obtained 0 votes. Mr Marc Allegaert received 0 votes. Mr. Marc Allegaert obtained 0 votes. Mr Henri Debucquoy received 0 votes. Mr. Henri Debucquoy obtained 0 votes. Mr Jan Decock received 0 votes. Mr. Jan Decock obtained 0 votes. Mr Norbert Verleyen received 106 votes. Mr. Norbert Verleyen obtained 106 votes. Mr Lode Goukens received 0 votes. Mr. Lode Goukens obtained 0 votes. Mr Pieter Houbey received 0 votes. Mr Pieter Houbey obtained 0 votes. Mr Norbert Verleyen, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was appointed alternate to Mr Tony Vermeulen. Mr Norbert Verleyen, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, was declared an alternate member of Mr Tony Vermeulen. Substitute of Mr David Baele Alternate Mr. David Baele Mr Raf Gerits received 0 votes. Mr. Raf Gerits obtained 0 votes. Mr Marc Allegaert received 0 votes. Mr. Marc Allegaert obtained 0 votes. Mr Henri Debucquoy received 0 votes. Mr. Henri Debucquoy obtained 0 votes. Mr Jan Decock received 106 votes. Mr. Jan Decock obtained 106 votes. Mr Norbert Verleyen received 0 votes. Mr. Norbert Verleyen obtained 0 votes. Mr Lode Goukens received 0 votes. Mr. Lode Goukens obtained 0 votes. Mr Pieter Houbey received 0 votes. Mr Pieter Houbey obtained 0 votes. Mr Jan Decock, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was appointed alternate to Mr David Baele. Mr Jan Decock, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, was declared an alternate member of Mr David Baele. Substitute of Mr Ralf Bas Alternate by Mr Ralf Bas Mr Raf Gerits received 0 votes. Mr. Raf Gerits obtained 0 votes. Mr Marc Allegaert received 0 votes. Mr. Marc Allegaert obtained 0 votes. Mr Henri Debucquoy received 0 votes. Mr. Henri Debucquoy obtained 0 votes. Mr Jan Decock received 0 votes. Mr. Jan Decock obtained 0 votes. Mr Norbert Verleyen received 0 votes. Mr. Norbert Verleyen obtained 0 votes. Mr Lode Goukens received 0 votes. Mr. Lode Goukens obtained 0 votes. Mr Pieter Houbey received 106 votes. Mr Pieter Houbey obtained 106 votes. Mr Pieter Houbey, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was appointed alternate to Mr Ralf Bas. Mr Pieter Houbey, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, was declared an alternate member of Mr Ralf Bas.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u111	Votes 107 Votants Blank or invalid 5 White or invalid Valid 102 Valables Two-thirds majority 68 Two-thirds majority Substitute of Ms Sarah Grandfils Substitute of Ms. Sarah Grandfils Mr Patrick Charlier received 0 votes. Mr. Patrick Charlier obtained 0 votes. Mrs Béatrice Chapaux received 0 votes. Ms. Béatrice Chapaux obtained 0 votes. Mr Jules Malaise received 0 votes. Mr. Jules Malaise obtained 0 votes. Mr Yves de Locht received 0 votes. Mr. Yves de Locht obtained 0 votes. Mrs. Arlette Donnay got 0 votes. Ms. Arlette Donnay obtained 0 votes. Mrs Isabelle Etienne received 0 votes. Ms Isabelle Etienne obtained 0 votes. Mrs Brigitte Feys received 0 votes. Ms. Brigitte Feys obtained 0 votes. Mr Michel Gustot received 0 votes. Mr. Michel Gustot obtained 0 votes. Mrs Vinciane Saliez received 102 votes. Ms Vinciane Saliez obtained 102 votes. Ms Vinciane Saliez, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was appointed as alternate to Ms Sarah Grandfils. Mrs Vinciane Saliez, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, was declared an alternate member of Mrs Sarah Grandfils. Substitute of Mr Marc Nève Substitute of Mr. Marc Nève Mr Patrick Charlier received 102 votes. Mr. Patrick Charlier obtained 102 votes. Mrs Béatrice Chapaux received 0 votes. Ms. Béatrice Chapaux obtained 0 votes. Mr Jules Malaise received 0 votes. Mr. Jules Malaise obtained 0 votes. Mr Yves de Locht received 0 votes. Mr. Yves de Locht obtained 0 votes. Mrs. Arlette Donnay got 0 votes. Ms. Arlette Donnay obtained 0 votes. Mrs Isabelle Etienne received 0 votes. Ms Isabelle Etienne obtained 0 votes. Mrs Brigitte Feys received 0 votes. Ms. Brigitte Feys obtained 0 votes. Mr Michel Gustot received 0 votes. Mr. Michel Gustot obtained 0 votes. Mrs Vinciane Saliez received 0 votes. Mrs Vinciane Saliez obtained 0 votes. Mr Patrick Charlier, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was appointed alternate to Mr Marc Nève. Mr Patrick Charlier, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, was declared an alternate member of Mr Marc Nève. Substitute of Mr Jean Louis Evrard Alternate Mr. Jean Louis Evrard Mr Patrick Charlier received 0 votes. Mr. Patrick Charlier obtained 0 votes. Mrs Béatrice Chapaux received 0 votes. Ms. Béatrice Chapaux obtained 0 votes. Mr Jules Malaise received 0 votes. Mr. Jules Malaise obtained 0 votes. Mr Yves de Locht received 0 votes. Mr. Yves de Locht obtained 0 votes. Mrs. Arlette Donnay got 0 votes. Ms. Arlette Donnay obtained 0 votes. Mrs Isabelle Etienne received 0 votes. Ms Isabelle Etienne obtained 0 votes. Mrs Brigitte Feys received 0 votes. Ms. Brigitte Feys obtained 0 votes. Mr Michel Gustot received 102 votes. Mr. Michel Gustot obtained 102 votes. Mrs Vinciane Saliez received 0 votes. Mrs Vinciane Saliez obtained 0 votes. Mr Michel Gustot, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was appointed alternate to Mr Jean Louis Evrard. Mr Michel Gustot, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, was declared an alternate member of Mr Jean Louis Evrard. Substitute of Ms Ludivine Kerzmann Alternate by Ms Ludivine Kerzmann Mr Patrick Charlier received 0 votes. Mr. Patrick Charlier obtained 0 votes. Mrs Béatrice Chapaux received 0 votes. Ms. Béatrice Chapaux obtained 0 votes. Mr Jules Malaise received 0 votes. Mr. Jules Malaise obtained 0 votes. Mr Yves de Locht received 0 votes. Mr. Yves de Locht obtained 0 votes. Mrs. Arlette Donnay received 102 votes. Ms. Arlette Donnay obtained 102 votes. Mrs Isabelle Etienne received 0 votes. Ms Isabelle Etienne obtained 0 votes. Mrs Brigitte Feys received 0 votes. Ms. Brigitte Feys obtained 0 votes. Mr Michel Gustot received 0 votes. Mr. Michel Gustot obtained 0 votes. Mrs Vinciane Saliez received 0 votes. Mrs Vinciane Saliez obtained 0 votes. Ms Arlette Donnay, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was appointed as alternate for Ms Ludivine Kerzmann. Mrs Arlette Donnay, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, was declared an alternate member of Mrs Ludivine Kerzmann. Substitute of Mrs Martine Michel Substitute of Ms. Martine Michel Mr Patrick Charlier received 0 votes. Mr. Patrick Charlier obtained 0 votes. Mrs Béatrice Chapaux received 102 votes. Ms. Béatrice Chapaux obtained 102 votes. Mr Jules Malaise received 0 votes. Mr. Jules Malaise obtained 0 votes. Mr Yves de Locht received 0 votes. Mr. Yves de Locht obtained 0 votes. Mrs. Arlette Donnay got 0 votes. Ms. Arlette Donnay obtained 0 votes. Mrs Isabelle Etienne received 0 votes. Ms Isabelle Etienne obtained 0 votes. Mrs Brigitte Feys received 0 votes. Ms. Brigitte Feys obtained 0 votes. Mr Michel Gustot received 0 votes. Mr. Michel Gustot obtained 0 votes. Mrs Vinciane Saliez received 0 votes. Mrs Vinciane Saliez obtained 0 votes. Ms Béatrice Chapaux, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was appointed as alternate to Mrs Martine Michel. Mrs Béatrice Chapaux, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, was declared an alternate member of Mrs Martine Michel. Substitute of Mr Marc Vanderveken Supplier de M. Marc Vanderveken Mr Patrick Charlier received 0 votes. Mr. Patrick Charlier obtained 0 votes. Mrs Béatrice Chapaux received 0 votes. Ms. Béatrice Chapaux obtained 0 votes. Mr Jules Malaise received 0 votes. Mr. Jules Malaise obtained 0 votes. Mr Yves de Locht received 102 votes. Mr. Yves de Locht obtained 102 votes. Mrs. Arlette Donnay got 0 votes. Ms. Arlette Donnay obtained 0 votes. Mrs Isabelle Etienne received 0 votes. Ms Isabelle Etienne obtained 0 votes. Mrs Brigitte Feys received 0 votes. Ms. Brigitte Feys obtained 0 votes. Mr Michel Gustot received 0 votes. Mr. Michel Gustot obtained 0 votes. Mrs Vinciane Saliez received 0 votes. Mrs Vinciane Saliez obtained 0 votes. Mr Yves de Locht, who received the two-thirds majority of the votes, was appointed alternate to Mr Marc Vanderveken. Mr Yves de Locht, having obtained a two-thirds majority of the vote, was declared an alternate member of Mr Marc Vanderveken.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u112	Votes 108 Votants Blank or invalid 3...................................................................................................................... 3...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... White or invalid Valid 105 Valables Perfect majority 53 Absolute majority Mr Jean Louis Evrard received one vote. Mr. Jean Louis Evrard obtained 1 vote. Mrs. Sarah Grandfils received 105 votes. Sarah Grandfils obtained 105 votes. Mr Marc Nève received 104 votes. Mr. Marc Nève obtained 104 votes. Ms Sarah Grandfils, who received the absolute majority of the votes, was appointed a French-speaking member of the Office of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisoners. Ms. Sarah Grandfils, having obtained an absolute majority of votes, was declared a French-speaking member of the Bureau of the Central Prison Supervision Council. Mr Marc Nève, who received the absolute majority of the votes, was appointed a French-speaking member of the Bureau of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisoners. Mr. Marc Nève, having obtained an absolute majority of votes, was declared a French-speaking member of the Bureau of the Central Prison Supervision Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u113	Votes 112 Votants Blank or invalid 6 White or invalid Valid 106 Valables Perfect majority 54 Absolute majority Mr Didier Maréchal received 4 votes. Mr. Didier Maréchal obtained 4 votes. Mrs Vanessa Samain received 102 votes. Ms. Vanessa Samain obtained 102 votes. Mrs Vanessa Samain, who has received an absolute majority, has been appointed first deputy chairman of the Standing Committee on the Supervision of Intelligence and Security Services. Ms. Vanessa Samain, having obtained an absolute majority, was proclaimed the first alternate chairman of the Standing Committee on the Review of Intelligence and Security Services. Since there is only one candidate for the mandate of second deputy chairman of the Standing Committee on the Supervision of Intelligence and Security Services, Mr Didier Maréchal may, pursuant to Rule 157 of the Rules of Procedure, 6, of the Rules of Procedure, declared to be elected. Since there is only one candidate for the term of second deputy chair of the Standing Committee on the Review of Intelligence and Security Services, the House may declare Mr. Didier Maréchal elected pursuant to Rule 157, No. 6 of the Rules of the House. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u114	Vote on Amendment No 6 by Barbara Beware of Article 2. (3556/5) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Barbara Not to Article 2. (3556-5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes [[29]] Yes No. 86 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 115 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u115	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes 86 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 29 Abstensions Total 117 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3556/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (35566) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u116	Vote on Amendment No 549 by Meyrem Almaci cs on Article 2. (3119/23) Vote on Amendment No 549 by Meyrem Almaci cs to Article 2. (3119/23) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes [[42]] Yes No. 69 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 117 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 550 by Meyrem Almaci cs on Article 2. (3119/23) Vote on Amendment No 550 by Meyrem Almaci cs to Article 2. (3119/23) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u117	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 551 by Meyrem Almaci cs on Article 2. (3119/23) Vote on Amendment No 551 by Meyrem Almaci cs to Article 2. (3119/23) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u118	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 552 by Meyrem Almaci cs on Article 2. (3119/23) Vote on Amendment No 552 by Meyrem Almaci cs to Article 2. (3119/23) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 19) Yes [[25]] Yes No. 70 No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 118 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 553 by Meyrem Almaci cs on Article 2. (3119/23) Vote on Amendment No 553 by Meyrem Almaci cs to Article 2. (3119/23) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u119	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 554 by Meyrem Almaci cs on Article 2. (3119/23) Vote on Amendment No 554 by Meyrem Almaci cs to Article 2. (3119/23) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 20) Yes [[43]] Yes No. 69 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 118 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Mrs Daphné Dumery voted against. Vote on Amendment No 555 by Meyrem Almaci cs on Article 2. (3119/23) Vote on Amendment No 555 by Meyrem Almaci cs to Article 2. (3119/23) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u120	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 556 by Meyrem Almaci cs on Article 2. (3119/23) Vote on Amendment No 556 by Meyrem Almaci cs to Article 2. (3119/23) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u121	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 557 by Meyrem Almaci cs on Article 2. (3119/23) Vote on Amendment No 557 by Meyrem Almaci cs to Article 2. (3119/23) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u122	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 558 by Meyrem Almaci cs on Article 2. (3119/23) Vote on Amendment No 558 by Meyrem Almaci cs to Article 2. (3119/23) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u123	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. In Article 2, Articles 1:1 to 1:37, 2:1 to 2:149, 3:1 to 3:103, 4:1 to 4:28, 5:1 to 5:158, 6:1 to 6:128 and 7:1 to 7:232 are adopted by article. In Article 2, Articles 1:1 to 1:37, 2:1 to 2:149, 3:1 to 3:103, 4:1 to 4:28, 5:1 to 5:158, 6:1 to 6:128 and 7:1 to 7:232 are adopted article by article. Article 2 is adopted. Article 2 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 545 of Meryame Kitir cs leaving out Article 13. (3119/23) Vote on Amendment No 545 by Meryame Kitir cs to delete Article 13. (3119/23) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 21) Yes [[41]] Yes No. 69 No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 117 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 13 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 13 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 546 of Meryame Kitir cs leaving out Article 14. (3119/23) Vote on Amendment No 546 by Meryame Kitir cs to delete Article 14. (3119/23) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u124	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 14 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 14 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 547 of Meryame Kitir cs leaving out Article 16. (3119/23) Vote on Amendment No 547 by Meryame Kitir cs to delete Article 16. (3119/23) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u125	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 16 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 16 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 548 of Meryame Kitir cs leaving out Article 18. (3119/23) Vote on Amendment No 548 by Meryame Kitir cs to delete Article 18. (3119/23) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u126	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 18 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 18 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u127	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 22) Yes 68 Yes No. [[27]] No Abstentions 21 Abstensions Total 116 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3119/24) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3119/24) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u128	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 23) Yes 68 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 47 Abstensions Total 116 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3367/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3367/5) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u129	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 24) Yes 67 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 47 Abstensions Total 115 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3368/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3368/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u130	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 25) Yes 103 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 113 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (3522/5) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (3522/5) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? Mr. Laurent Devin, Ms. Sybille de Coster-Bauchau and Ms. Caroline Cassart-Mailleux voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-28-54-plenair-ip273x.u131	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 14 March 2019. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, March 14, 2019. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 14 March 2019 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, 14 March 2019 at 2.15 p.m.
