ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u1	Madam Chair, Minister, since January 2018, the pension savings plan has been amended. Savers now have the choice between two maximum annual instalments for their pension savings. In 2018, the first level was set at €960 per year with a tax deduction of 30% of the amount saved. The second level was fixed at EUR 1230 with a tax deduction of 25% of the amount saved. Subtility of this reform, a "tax trap" already widely commented: savers paying between EUR 960.01 and EUR 1152 go to a 25% tax reduction which is therefore disadvantageous to them, their tax advantage being less than if they had limited their payment to EUR 960. According to figures obtained by Le Vif from the Finance FPS, in 2018, 2,742 savers paid between €960 and €1,152 and are therefore "fall into the trap". They lost part of the tax benefit they would have received by limiting themselves to EUR 960. The Michel government had presented this amendment to the pension savings scheme as a budget neutral. The mechanism, confirmed by a note from the Court of Auditors commented on at the time by the newspaper Le Soir, was as follows: 380 000 savers would only slightly increase their savings, thus remaining below 1152 euros. By means of communicative vessels, this was intended to fund the additional tax reduction of those who would sufficiently approach the second level. The aim was therefore to finance this change in the scheme at the expense of part of the savers. The 2019 tax year has been completed, so the time is on the balance sheet. Beyond the pernicious process, this measure weighs on the state budget. Indeed, with only 2,742 savers falling into the trap (which can be welcomed) instead of the planned 380,000, the measure represents an estimated budget gap of €1.27 million per year (which can be worried). Here are my questions. Do you confirm this data in the press? How many savers have suffered a loss of their tax benefit on the basis of their 2018 payment? How was information provided to taxpayers, to which the government had committed itself, on this matter? Do you intend to offset this loss for public finances? Are you planning, in consultation with Minister Bacquelaine, a review of this reform and a tax correction for the injured savers?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u2	Mrs Leroy, I will answer your first question first. The figures in the press come from the FPS Finances. It goes without saying that they can be confirmed. Indeed, in 2018, 2,742 taxpayers paid more than 960 euros for pension savings, but less than 1,152 euros. This implies a reduction of 25%, less than a reduction of 30% in the case of a payment limited to EUR 960. As you yourself have pointed out, this mechanism has already been commented on at length, in particular by the press. In addition, the FPS Finance website explicitly mentions this particularity. Thus, in the section dedicated to pension savings, under the title "What amount can I pay? How much is the tax reduction?", It is explicitly stated: "Warning, if you exceed the €960 limit, the tax reduction automatically increases from 30 % to 25 %. This is only beneficial for you if you pay more than 1,152 euros." Finally, it will be recalled that the upper threshold of EUR 1 230 applies only if the taxpayer has explicitly opted for this solution. To the knowledge of the administration, the majority of the institutions concerned notify their clients of the risk of ultimately obtaining a lower tax advantage. Let me turn to your third question. At present, there are no plans to make changes to the system in question. Once it is in cruise mode, a new evaluation will be carried out. Your last question calls for the following answer. Given that savers have been informed via different channels, and that the option for the upper threshold of EUR 1 230 results from an explicit choice of these, it cannot be said that there are savers injured by this measure. No changes are therefore envisaged. In any event, such an amendment would exceed the dispatch of routine business.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u3	Minister, if I understood correctly, these 2,742 people would have explicitly chosen to value a tax deduction to a lesser extent. I'm a little surprised. As a user of this kind of mechanism, I would be surprised if I chose to gain a little less tax advantage. I'm really surprised. I will check that, in the next year, more information is still given, so that fewer people explicitly decide to benefit from a lower tax advantage. I propose that we discuss it again next year to see if these 2,742 savers have decided to make another choice, and I really hope so for them. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u4	Minister, this question falls within the single VAT system. Cross-border electronic services, e.g. an online sports channel, are difficult to see because of its nature. This increases the risk that companies will be able to avoid tax burdens by paying no or too little VAT. Since 2010, services to private individuals have been taxed on the basis of the place where the service provider is established. However, for telecommunications services, radio and television services and electronic services, this was changed in 2015, in particular to the place of the consumer. This means that a service provider providing these services to individuals in other EU countries must register in those countries as well. For many small service providers this is a heavy administrative burden. To relieve the administrative burden, the optional Mini One Stop Shop system, the MOSS system, was initially introduced as a test case. The Court of Auditors has examined whether the FPS Finance is addressing this renewed VAT system for cross-border electronic services. The Court of Auditors notes that the organisational aspects were adequately worked out, but not control policy. There seems to be no sound control policy. This dossier is not insignificant, as the scheme will be extended to all cross-border e-commerce from 2021 onwards. From then on, therefore, the financial risks and the fiscal enforcement responsibility will increase exponentially. Mr Minister, why has the FPS Finance not so far pursued a sound control policy in this area? Why does there not yet exist a central risk analysis to select files for verification? What recommendations of the Court of Auditors will the FPS Finance take to heart as a priority? What systematic international cooperation can and would you like to speed up? Can you explain more about the recently introduced supervisory matrix to identify tax risks in cross-border electronic services and to initiate control activities? Can you also explain the initiative within the European anti-fraud network Eurofisc?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u5	Mr Ravyts, Belgian taxpayers who provide MOSS services do not slip through the loopholes of the network. Indeed, there remains a national periodic VAT return subjecting the most risky taxable persons to a centralised risk analysis to control turnover, including the MOSS services. The administration is studying how to overcome the increased workload for handling the new MOSS declarations, the selection, control and screening of commercial internet activities. There are needs in four areas. Firstly, the central services will need to strengthen the processing of the new MOSS declarations and payments through the renewed MOSS application in Intervat and risk analysis. Secondly, the foreign control centre will be responsible for identifying and contacting foreign Internet operators. Thirdly, SME Centres' control teams, which control both intra-Community trade with private individuals and the control of consignments to private individuals from third countries, will have to be trained in order to control the new regime. Fourthly, the e-audit services will screen transactions on the Internet to our country and map them as accurately as possible. In answer to your third question, the FPS Finance attaches great importance to cooperation with its international partners. Good cooperation is crucial to control cross-border transactions, to detect traders who fail to comply with their tax obligations, and to combat fraud. The entry into force of the MOSS system in 2015 strengthened cooperation between Member States. Thanks to the robust and automated MOSS system, Belgium continuously exchanges a large amount of data with other European countries on the registration of taxable persons, VAT returns and payments. International cooperation on e-commerce, and in particular the MOSS, is based on European legal provisions, which Belgium correctly and loyally applies. European legislation in this area has recently been strengthened to allow for improvements and the optimum application of cooperation instruments. These legislative changes will be implemented in the upcoming one-stop-shop system and will address procedures for requesting information and administrative investigations, the transmission of data from taxpayers, the coordination of administrative investigations or the conduct of administrative investigations carried out jointly by the different Member States. The FPS Finance has played an active role in the adoption of these measures at European level and will ensure that they are strictly applied at national level. In answer to your fourth question, the Belgian administration uses the MOSS matrix, developed after Benelux consultation to tackle certain risks directly in the new MOSS application, which is now under development. The General Administration of the BBI actively participates in Eurofisc's work field 5 on electronic commerce. In that context, operational data shall be exchanged to identify fraud, in particular in relation to distance sales. The same administration is also working on the roll-out of the TNA, the Transactional Network Analysis. This tool detects and combats possible VAT fraud in cross-border transactions. The system also facilitates closer cooperation between EU Member States and Eurofisc. One of the European projects under negotiation is the introduction of a system for the exchange of information on financial transactions. This system will enable Eurofisc officials to compare payment data with the VAT data available to them and to carry out targeted checks.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u6	Mr Minister, I will certainly read your answer carefully, given its technicality. I'll follow up on this case. In any case, it is gaining in importance, because the expansion of the system will also increase the financial importance exponentially, as will the fiscal authorities' enforcement tasks.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u7	Minister, Biztax is the standard application for filing the corporate tax return. This year, until 26 September, companies were given the time to submit the declaration. Due to technical problems and the late opening of the Biztax website this year, you postponed on 17 September until 10 October. Afterwards, many technical problems with the platform were again identified and the data could not be correctly stored in the system. Several users lost their connection to the platform several times and often had to wait in vain to re-register on the platform. As a result, it was again decided to extend the deadline by four days. However, the problems have been identified by companies and fiscalists in recent years. Mr Minister, are the problems in this year of attack comparable to those of recent years? What has been done to reduce the overload of the platform during the submission period? One cannot forward a declaration until error checks have been carried out. That error check requires a lot of computing capacity from the platform. What can be done to address the great need for error-checking calculation capacity and, consequently, to reduce queues in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u8	Madam President, I think that is the same question as under point 22.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u9	This question is about Biztax. The other one is about Tax-on-web. Different IT systems have common problems, but not the same ones. However, we will also discuss tax-on-web in detail. In 2017, the server architecture and the Biztax application were substantially modified to make the validation of the declarations more performant. Despite the adjustments, the large influx of declarations in the last days before a limit date may have a negative impact on response times. On the other hand, an application such as Biztax has numerous dependencies that may be the cause of failure to obtain access to the application or technical problems in the application itself. Technically, in recent weeks, performance has been maximized by, inter alia, the temporary cessation or otherwise planning of all unnecessary batch processing, a thorough monitoring of applications and a priority treatment of technical problems. Finally, a simulation calculation is only possible with the data of a validated, correctly completed declaration. After all, the amount to be paid or returned cannot be calculated or not correctly in the case of an incorrect completed declaration as you have indicated. More generally, this applies to Biztax, but I would also like to stress that we are a service organisation, and so I think we should do everything in our power to ensure, at crucial moments close to the deadline, that the service is what is always expected. I understand technical problems, but I think that as a citizen we can expect more than what we are getting in this area so far.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u10	In the meantime, Minister, postponement for problems is a certificate. It comes back year after year, each year it has to be postponed again. It is therefore a structural problem, and we must ask the necessary questions. You are talking about a number of small temporary measures to solve the problem when it is very busy, but I believe that a little more needs to be done structurally to ensure that the problems are finally resolved in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u11	Minister, in the context of last year's corporate tax reform, it was decided to reduce the deduction of risk capital to be taken into account. This was one of the compensatory measures to justify a reduction in corporate tax. The amount that can be taken into account is currently the annual average net increase in own funds over the five previous financial years. The determination of that own funds at the beginning of the reference period can be easy. It used to be, when it had to be taken into account to calculate the notional interest deduction. Today, however, we note that it is not clear for many fiscalists and entrepreneurs how the total own funds can be determined at the end of the financial year to be closed for the calculation of the risk capital to be taken into account. In fact, a definitive closure can only take place after the estimated taxes have been calculated. However, it should be possible to determine that own funds at the end of the financial year in order to calculate those estimated taxes. There is therefore a great deal of uncertainty for fiscalists and companies. Minister, how should own funds be established? Why did the principle of taking into account equity, known at the beginning of the financial year, have been abandoned in order to ensure a more transparent calculation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u12	Mr Van Lommel, the problem you mentioned regarding the calculation of the deduction for risk capital has already been solved by a modification of that deduction by the Law of 30 July 2018 laying down various provisions on income tax with the aim of simplifying its application. Those amended provisions shall apply from the 2019 tax year, linked to the taxable period beginning at the earliest on 1 January 2018. In future, the calculation of the deduction for risk capital means in particular that account is taken of the amount of the company's own funds at the beginning of the taxable period and at the beginning of the fifth previous taxable period.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, which in itself is very enlightening. Today, fiscalists and entrepreneurs are still thinking about the change in the law at the time, so that we can see that they do not work properly or with the right data. That is why your answer is very enlightening. It is therefore a good thing that a legislative amendment was introduced on 30 July 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u14	Madam President, this is a somewhat old question, but it has just been reoriented. Minister, at his last corporate council, Belfius Bank discussed reducing its network of agencies on the pretext that people are turning more to digital applications to carry out their banking operations. When we question the management of Belfius, it remains reserved and tells us that it does a state of affairs without adding more comments. I am concerned, therefore, because I would not like it to be put back at the foot of the wall and that, overnight, several dozen agencies will be closed. Digital is the future, we can be aware of it. However, let us not forget that the digital divide is real. The Digital Agency, in its citizen barometer, is clear: 34% of Walloons – one million Walloons – are in a situation of weakness or delicacy with regard to digital technology – either because they do not have access to the Internet or because they do not have the minimum skills to use it properly. Not all Belgians are ready to live without an agency. A third of the Walloons will be wronged. My fear obviously also concerns employment. Belfius would like to remove 800 posts naturally by 2025. The Belgian State has been a majority shareholder of Belfius Bank since the 2008 crisis. The Belgian citizens have saved this bank from bankruptcy and I believe that it has a duty to keep jobs and to offer a service of proximity and quality to its customers. My questions are therefore as follows. Have you ever assessed how many direct and indirect jobs are threatened by the potential closure of Belfius agencies? Is this in addition to the abolition of the 800 posts already mentioned? How many agencies are involved and will Picardy Wallonia be affected? Finally, what is the government's position on the possible closure of these agencies?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u15	Madam President, the closures announced in 2020 – namely 23 agencies which are located only in Flanders – will take place at the earliest in April and mainly concern smaller agencies which already have limited opening times at present or only open by appointment. Approximately 35 functions will be abolished in 2020 for the entire employee network in Flanders. The impact on staff is therefore limited and various levers – such as pension departure, internal mobility to other agencies, to Belfius Connect, or to seats – are available to compensate for the removal of functions. As mentioned, these are 23 agencies located in Flanders only. The Belgian Government does not intervene in the concrete and day-to-day management of Belfius.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u16	Minister, thank you for these answers. It is true that this is a little less than I could say. The fact that the Belgian state, the federal government, does not intervene on the pretext of commercial freedom, your colleague, Mrs Muylle, has also told me this recently. I can still regret it, in view of everything that is happening today, in view of our economic situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u17	Question No 55001161C by Mr Gilkinet falls.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u18	Madam President, Minister, the Regions have the opportunity to put in place financial incentives to mobilise job seekers for training. This is particularly the case in Wallonia where Forem grants a financial incentive to the trainee who succeeds in training leading to a job in need. The amount of the financial incentive is 350 euros gross per month. To date, 3,543 files have been validated. At the time of the start of this project (the Walloon government decree of 28 February 2018), it was clearly agreed that the financial incentive would be fully defied. However, it was subsequently found that this incentive can only be exempted up to a maximum of EUR 220, the remaining EUR 130 being taxed at 11%. Each trainee therefore does not receive 350 euros but 335.56 euros. Minister, the total amount of 350 euros was not a large amount. If, in the end, it is almost 15 euros lower, the advantage of the jobseeker is clearly planed. Can the government take a legislative or regulatory initiative to ensure that these cheques or incentives put in place by the Regions are fully deficalized? If there is no legislative initiative, can we at least ask the tax authorities to introduce an administrative tolerance in view of the derisory amounts involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u19	Madam President, Mr Goblet, training premiums granted by a Region or by the German-speaking Community which meet certain conditions are exempt for an amount of EUR 220 under IARC 92. However, this amount of EUR 220 is a basic amount which must be indexed annually. For the 2019 tax year, this amount thus exempt was therefore 350 euros. For the 2020 tax year, this exempt amount amounts to EUR 360. The financial incentive which constitutes these training bonuses is therefore indeed defied.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u20	Minister, thank you for your answer. It seems to me, however, that there is a quiproquo. Indeed, in the notes I received from Forem and the Walloon Region's office, it is only referred to those to whom the 350 were paid. It is stated that the deduction of the professional discount on the 130 euros had not been made – it was the Forem that was going to take charge of it – but that from now on, the deduction of 15 euros would be made. There is certainly a problem of understanding the indexation to which you refer. Otherwise, the current problem would not arise. I would point out, however, that with the exception of the €350 premium for trades in short supply, and in addition to travel costs, Forem pays only one euro per hour to those in training. For the latter, the difference of EUR 15 per month can therefore be significant.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u21	Mr Goblet, in the case you have described there is clearly a problem of implementation. I therefore propose that you provide us with the information you have in order for me to make a clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u22	Question No 55001194C by Mr Bayet is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u23	Mr Minister, we recently read an article in Knack which shows that it is being examined whether the port of Antwerp could be equipped with so-called sniffing cranes. Those are cranes that could smell drugs. It's not like a dog. The images of these cranes could be screened through artificial intelligence, which could and should increase the chance of taking drugs sensitively. That's the bright side of the story. The nasty side is that customs estimate that such a project could be rolled out within eight years at the earliest. The problem of drugs introduced through ports is considerable. I do not think it is appropriate to wait so long and to take measures more quickly. Currently the controls are rather random or based on tips. The customs officers are doing their utmost, but the way and conditions in which they have to work are not so obvious. Sometimes they just stick a pick in a palette. I don't think that's from this time of year anymore. They also depend on tips, so I think there is still a lot going on. We must try to avoid this as much as possible. Minister, how do you view the idea of so-called sniffing cranes? Are you planning short-term measures to step up the fight against drug trafficking through ports? If so, how do you intend to do that? Do the customs in the ports have drug dogs at their disposal? If so, how many are in each port? If not, are drug dogs currently being trained? Are you planning on at least putting that in?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u24	Mrs. De Wit, customs are constantly looking for new, innovative methods to detect drugs. One of the slopes currently under investigation consists of the use of air samples. These are the so-called sniffing cranes, in combination with the artificial intelligence. The fight against drugs in port has already been stepped up and is being consolidated. Thanks to the Streamplan, additional budgets were allocated for the recruitment of staff and the purchase of effective equipment. The drug team was therefore doubled in number. There are now 20 detectives working permanently. The following measures have already been taken with regard to the active substances. The fixed scanners at two border inspection posts were modernised. The two mobile scanners were replaced by a performer type. In addition, the scan team will have two own backscatters at the end of 2019. The verification services and border posts were equipped with drug cone equipment. These devices analyse the air contained in a container, which makes it possible to determine whether or not drugs are hidden between the cargo of a container. In addition, smart shields are used to monitor the transport of selected containers remotely. In addition, many measures were taken to improve the control approach. More checks are carried out on the basis of risk analyses, but also on the basis of random selections. There is also an agreement between the Administration Operations and the Administration Investigation with a view to providing support services related to resources and human resources to the drug teams. In recent years, a number of cooperation agreements have also been concluded with high-risk countries in South America. In addition, customs can welcome a number of US administrations working in the fight against drugs. In addition to the Customs and Border Patrols, the services of the Drug Enforcement Agency and the Immigration and Customs Enforcement are now permanently housed in the buildings of the Antwerp Customs Office. A new training was developed to train customs officers even better in the physical inspection of containers. The private partners also play a role in the fight against drug crime. There has been intense consultation with customs and a number of cooperation agreements have been signed. Through the 100 % scanning project currently under study, it is intended to achieve effective 100 % scanning in the medium term. Customs have two drug dogs in the port of Antwerp. In 2020 this will be extended to four. The customs services of the ports of Zeebrugge, Ghent and Ostend together have two drug dogs. The idea of the 'cranish nuggets', as you call it, is to be able to switch to a system with 100 % control. With the current mechanisms, that is actually impossible, because that would lead to a huge delay in the flow into the port. Why are they using these cranes? Those are moments of standstill, when the container still hangs. We know that this project will take some time, but once we move to a system where we know that every container is controlled in Antwerp, that is a very important signal to drug traffickers. It is then known that one cannot count on luck to guide a container through the port of Antwerp. One last element. It is of course important that when we do so, other ports do so. Otherwise you will have a waterbed effect, where you will try to use other routes, which are less secure.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased to hear that initiatives are being taken. The crane snuff is an interesting idea, also because you can check every container. I realize that this can take a long time, but eight years is a very long time. We really need to be able to speed this up and speed it up and give customs every means possible to carry out its task. That is not clear on the ground today. Walking with these people is an interesting exercise. They have no obvious task at all. I want to give you another tip. If we do find prohibited stuff, then there is also work to be done to store and store it. I believe that there are also challenges in this area. That's beyond my question in itself, but I'm giving it away because I know this is a pain point too. It would be rather clumsy if the kilos we can grab were stored so amateurically that they could simply be taken back. I think there is still a task to be done, but I am very glad that it is already being worked on today, even though there is still a lot of work to be done. I look forward to that check on every container. The fact that the problem will move is obvious. We know that too, but we know that the traffic here is so huge that it must be a priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u26	Question No 55001239C by Mr Bayet is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u27	Article 15 of the Tax Convention between Belgium and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg provides that "salaries, wages and other similar remuneration received by a resident of a Contracting State in respect of employment shall be taxable only in that State unless the employment is exercised in the other Contracting State. If the employment is exercised there, the remuneration received in that capacity may be taxed in that other State." In order to adapt this rule to the reality of telework, the Belgian and Luxembourg Finance Ministers concluded an agreement in 2015 according to which a Belgian resident who is employed in Luxembourg and who, during a taxable period, is physically present in Belgium and/or in a third State to work there for one or more periods not exceeding 24 days, will remain taxable throughout the taxable period in Luxembourg. Last May, an agreement in principle between the two countries was made public. It planned to extend this period from 24 to 48 days. Minister, has this agreement in principle come into force? Do Belgian workers who are employed in the Grand Duchy already have the right not to be physically present in the Grand Duchy 48 days a year, while remaining taxable there? If so, should this agreement in principle not be the subject of an amendment to the tax convention between the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg and Belgium? Are the current 24 days of exemption included in the double taxation preventive agreement? If not, how were they formalized between the two countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u28	Mr Arens, an agreement in principle at the political level was reached last May. The aim is to extend the tolerance rule from 24 to 48 days. At present, this political agreement must be achieved through the conclusion of a new amendment to the Belgian-Luxembourg Convention. In order to do so, negotiations between the technical delegations of the two countries still need to be conducted. The 24-day tolerance rule is based on an amicable agreement, which has been applicable since the 2015 taxable period. This rule was subsequently endorsed by the amendment of 5 December 2017, amending the 1970 Convention. The amendment has yet to be approved by Parliament. We hope that its approval can be expressed in the course of next year so that it can enter into force in 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u29	Minister, thank you for your answer. I think you wanted to talk about the 2019 deal? Indeed, you have said that you hope that the one of 2017 – an amendment to the preventive law of double taxation – will be formalized thanks to a commitment made by Parliament. But he is already.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u30	No, when we talk about the 24-day rule, it was endorsed by the December 5, 2017 amendment to the 1970 Convention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u31	All right. We therefore now await Parliament's approval of the 2019 amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u32	Mr. Secretary, I have a question about the Brexit parkings. If there is a hard Brexit, extensive customs formalities will be necessary again. As a result, additional waiting times are expected for the flow of freight to the United Kingdom. We have heard in the press that the domain Puyenbroeck in East Flanders would be taken into account as one of the East Flemish Brexitparkings. We have also read in the press that another location included in the list of Brexit parkings, namely Ursel, would have been removed from the list. We have a number of questions about this. First of all, is it true that the Puyenbroeck domain is being considered, to serve as a Brexitparking for a hard Brexit? Is it true that the place Ursel would have been removed from the list? Secondly, which other places in East Flanders are still on the list? What criteria have been used for these choices? Thirdly, has the traffic infarct involved such a car park also been taken into account? The parking lot of Puyenbroeck in Wachtebeke is very difficult to reach for large freight traffic. It concerns 650 trucks that would be driven through the village centers to the parking lot. How will the nuisance for the neighbors be minimized? Are traffic measures already in place, for example, to ensure that cycling is managed safely? After all, there is no separate bicycle road. How will this be taken into account? Fourthly, can the local authorities object? Have they been included in the decision? Are they involved in the decision? Fifth, are you planning additional support for local authorities in the form of extra police capacity, to reduce any inconvenience? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u33	Mrs Depoorter, your question is very pertinent. Unfortunately, however, I have to give you a very brief answer, because the questions you ask me do not fall within my competence at all. The identification of possible waiting or buffer parkings, which you are talking about, falls entirely within the competence of the Minister of the Interior and the departments of the provincial governor. Customs have not done any cataloguing of places. Those places are called Brexit parkings, but customs do their job at the customs checkpoints. Anything related to traffic management, which is the subject of this debate, is not within my competence at all. The question is very pertinent, but it has to be asked to my colleague Pieter De Crem.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u34	Minister, I will be delighted to ask your colleague and mayor of Aalter, and therefore also Mr van Ursel. I therefore expect a pertinent answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u35	Mr President, Minister, on 22 October 2019 I asked you a question about the European Commission's investigation into excess profit rulings. In your reply, you stated the following on the net recovery of EUR 797 million: "The amounts actually recovered were indeed included in the tax revenue, in particular under the corporate tax budget article. (...) In the event of a possible repayment, the aid recovered should be increased by a moratorium. You would ask your administration for advice on the follow-up to this procedure. I take it this advice hasn't come in yet. After all, we had asked for that to happen. I would like to combine this with a question I asked following the discussion of the Monitoring Committee's report on the state of our budget on 15 October, which is also topical in relation to the European Commission's comments. In reply to my question whether the possibility of reimbursement in 2020 was taken into account, you replied in writing: "In view of the fact that in the case of excess profit rulings there is not yet a final ruling by the European Court of Justice, nothing has yet been included as regards a cost for a possible reimbursement of the amounts recovered in the context of the State aid case.' Understand, therefore, that no possible refunds are included in the 2020 budget. The members of the Monitoring Committee said that they would follow the matter closely, as they also see that there is a potential risk for the 2020 budget. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, can you confirm with 100 percent certainty that there will be no final ruling by the European Court of Justice in 2020 in the overprofits procedure and that there will therefore be no budgetary impact in 2020? The Monitoring Committee is based on the data of your services. Secondly, if you answer the first question in the affirmative, what do you base yourself on? What elements do you have to make that statement?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u36	Madam President, on the possible reimbursement of the aid recovered to the companies concerned in the excess profit rulings file (EPR), I would like to point out that the Belgian authorities remain obliged to refuse the refund of the amounts recovered, even if the European Court of Justice confirms the position of the EU court and the annulment of the Commission's decision of 11 January 2016 concerning the EPRs as aid scheme. As reported in this Committee, the European Commission opened individual and formal investigation procedures concerning excess profit rulings in respect of the companies concerned on 16 September 2019. As soon as the Commission qualifies a measure as unlawful State aid and initiates the formal investigation procedure, the Belgian authorities are obliged to suspend any payment of such aid on the basis of the suspension obligation laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. In addition, the Commission seeks to adopt a final decision to terminate the formal investigation procedure within 18 months of the initiation of an investigation. If the individual investigation procedures have not yet been concluded in 2020 or the Commission takes a negative final decision for Belgium in the individual investigations against which appeal can be made, there will be no budgetary impact in 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u37	Madam President, Minister, if I understand correctly, you say that even in the case of a general statement, you will wait for the individual statements that have been brought before you. Can I summarize your answer in this way? [[Minister's agreement]] Do you have any information on the administration's advice?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u38	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u39	So you said yes to the advice of the administration. Is that opinion on the follow-up procedure not yet in place? Or does the summary also apply here that you will wait for the individual studies?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u40	What I just said is the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u41	Minister, the European Investment Bank (EIB) announced in July of this year in its draft plan for future loans to the energy sector that it would terminate its loans to new gas projects, after it had already severely reduced financing for coal and oil. However, due to disagreements between Member States, a weakened draft plan was presented in September, but this was also not supported by all Member States, which did not reach agreement on the final plan at the Governing Council on 15 October. According to the compromise reached last week, the European Investment Bank will end its financing of oil, gas and coal projects after 2021. We welcome this decision, but we would like to map out this compromise between the various Member States and the role of Belgium in it. Hence a series of questions on this subject, Minister. For which countries did the September design still exclude too much fossil investment? For which countries exactly did the September draft not go far enough? Which countries agreed to the proposal as it was on the table on 15 October? On the basis of what differences of opinion were it decided that no final decision could be taken on 15 October? What was Belgium's position vis-à-vis the original design plan from July and the modified design plan from September? What is Belgium's position on the financing of so-called low-carbon gases? How does Belgium view the possible financing by the EIB of fossil projects in the list of projects of common interest, given that the EIB will continue to support any project added to this list before 2022?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u42	Mr Vanbesien, first of all I can confirm that at its most recent meeting on 14 November, the European Investment Bank's Governing Board reached agreement on a thorough revision of the lending policy for the energy sector. Our country is extremely satisfied with the scope and speed with which the EIB and its members have managed to reach that decision, which will be fully implemented from January 2022. The new investment strategy should help the EU's climate ambition to be fully carbon-free by 2050, deliver the much-needed support to rapidly and structurally change energy systems in Europe. Given its scope and its tight timing, it is no surprise that the EIB's proposal has led to intense discussions within the Governing Board. However, no country questioned the principle of change of course. A number of countries were concerned that the changed policy would involve high costs, which would make the EIB's financing channels less accessible to these countries. In order to meet these countries, it was finally agreed to implement the policy only by the end of 2021 instead of by the end of 2020 and to increase the share of EIB funding for more vulnerable regions to 75% instead of the current 50%. Belgium defended the same position during the discussions: our country wanted to ensure that the coherence between the EIB's financing arrangements is fully integrated into the ambitious European climate strategy. We have advocated the complete abolition of the loan policy for fossil fuels as soon as possible. In addition, our country has also advocated allowing for a strong policy of transition towards renewable energy sources. On the basis of the strict condition that these investments create greater access to sustainable and thus carbon-free energy sources, our country has called for EIB support for low-carbon energy sources to be maintained in a transitional phase. These are specific energy sources with an emission of less than 250 grams of CO2 per kilowatt-hour, such as synthetic gas and biogas. As a bank of the European Union, the EIB must respect the strategies and policies defined by the Member States. It is therefore necessary to establish a direct link between projects of common interest, the greening of the European Semester and the EIB's financing arrangements for Member States and partner countries. A transitional phase is also essential here to transform polluting energy sources into carbon-free systems in an organised and structural way. This is important in order to ensure security of energy supply and to create the right conditions for the financial markets, so that they are sufficiently resilient in the transition to and financing of carbon-free energy systems.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u43	I understand that the ambition for everyone is the same, but the sense of timing is not always the same for all partners. The EIB is responsible for financing the technology of the future. I understand that there will also be gas projects in the transition. In principle, we believe that conventional funding should be sought for these projects. We are pleased with the EIB's final decision, but as for its Vice-President, Mr McDowell, it is not the last step either.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u44	Madam President, Minister, through financing or investment, or by choosing not to finance or not to invest, investors influence the future-oriented decisions of companies in the European Union. The European Union and its Member States have entered into the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and the Paris climate ambitions. In order to allow investors to recognise green investment opportunities, policy objectives should be set in clear frameworks. EU taxonomy is an example of such a framework: a list of economic activities, assessed and classified on the basis of their contribution to the sustainability objectives of the European Union. Since the relevant committees in the European Parliament have voted to start negotiations on taxonomy with the Council, it is now a good time to question Belgium's current and future position in this debate. Is Belgium part of the Council's position to include nuclear energy in taxonomy? If so, what is the thinking behind that position? How does Belgium relate to questions from parts of the energy sector to include gas in taxonomy? Why did Belgium take that view? What is the Belgian position on the inclusion of intensive livestock farming and fossil fuel vehicles in taxonomy? How does Belgium intend to ensure that the protection of natural forests within taxonomy takes precedence over reforestation and monoculture? Is Belgium behind the position that taxonomy should be given only two categories, namely green activities and others, or behind the position that there should be several categories looking at the different degrees of sustainability and encompassing the entire economy? What is our country's position on the timeline for implementing the first part of the taxonomy that relates to climate?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u45	Madam President, Mr Vanbesien, on your first question, Belgium is not part of the Council position on nuclear energy in taxonomy. The debate on nuclear power is very politicised between a number of strong supporters, with France first, and a number of strong opponents, gathered around Germany. Our country has therefore so far taken a neutral position in the debate on the inclusion of nuclear energy. Secondly, the current proposal of the Technical Expert Group, set up by the European Commission, includes the production of electricity from the combustion of gases under the condition that CO2 or equivalent greenhouse gas emissions are below 100 grams per kilowatt-hour generated throughout the lifetime of such a plant. That threshold drops every five years, until it reaches zero grams of net emissions per kilowatt hour by 2050. This means that conventional electricity generation based on natural gas will not be considered sustainable, unlike gases with low CO2 emissions, such as synthetic gas, hydrogen and biogas. Belgium sees its support for the conservation of so-called clean gases fully in a transition logic. As long as the preservation of these gases in taxonomy can contribute to strengthening the development of renewable energy options, this possibility should be retained during a transitional period. Thirdly, to date Belgium has not taken a position on the inclusion of intensive livestock farming and fossil fuel vehicles in taxonomy. Fourthly, in taxonomy, there is no prioritisation between different economic activities. A possible distinction between natural forests, reforestation and monoculture can be made in public policy. Fifth, at the moment, the Belgian position is that a positive taxonomy should be developed in which sustainable activities are determined in terms of ESG ( Environmental, Social and Governance). The thresholds used need to be tightened in order to achieve a transition to a low carbon and ultimately carbon-free economy. Sixthly, sustainability is defined in terms of taxonomy in terms of ESG. The proposal of the Technical Expert Group concerns only a number of components of the environmental pillar. The SNG pillars (syntec natural gas) and the other components of the environmental pillar are to be developed at a later stage. Belgium has a strong interest in a holistic ESG approach to sustainability. We therefore want to avoid the various elements of taxonomy being pulled apart. With regard to timing, the Belgian position is that the implementation of the climate and environmental component should be simultaneous and by 2021 at the latest. In addition, the definition of the other sustainability components should be addressed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u46	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. Just like before, I notice that the ambition is there, but not all partners want to move forward as quickly as possible. I understand that. Our group is keen to see this move forward as soon as possible. We shall continue to monitor this. Like the NGOs, I would like to call for taxonomy not to depend on lobbying groups but to work on scientific recommendations and studies. What is helping in climate change and what is not? That should be the only basis for that classification.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u47	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hecke's 55001371C expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u48	We talked about this a few weeks ago a whole morning, my colleague. But that's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u49	Madam Secretary, I apologize. I had addressed this question to Mrs Muylle, in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, but apparently she was forwarded to this committee. I propose that the Minister respond to the questions that were not raised at the time. I will certainly look again at the report from that hearing. Minister, a no-dealbrexit is no longer available, but of course that does not mean that we should not be fully prepared. Hence my questions. We see that Rotterdam is very well prepared. Customs, together with the port, already provide parking facilities where the trucks can go if the drivers do not have the right documents on them. Is there any additional capacity available for us? If so, where will that be? In the Netherlands, these additional parking facilities also have a lot of infrastructure, such as fences. Is this already the case in our country? Will there be customs offices in these places to help stranded drivers? Are there any traffic circulation plans in preparation? The exporters and importers must agree in the Netherlands who will digitally report their cargo to or from the United Kingdom in advance. Is this also the case in Belgium? The FPS Treasury would be looking for 386 extra customs officers. I have recently been to the port of Zeebrugge, where people say that 27 additional customs officers can work in Zeebrugge. Rotterdam alone puts hundreds more into it. Are there enough extra forces in Zeebrugge? Customs headquarters would move to Roeselare. Is this true? If so, why is this move planned? In the Netherlands they work with a buddy program in which a larger company helps a smaller brother in the preparations. Is that planned in our country, too? Finally, Belgian companies may be able to mobilise in good time, but the main fear is that many companies from Eastern Europe or southern Europe will do so less. In the Netherlands people are very busy with an awareness campaign and flyers are already being handed out to the truck drivers. Is this planned in our country, too?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u50	Mrs Depraetere, the port company of Zeebrugge has set up two buffer parking areas with a capacity of 650 places. The establishment of waiting or buffer parking areas is the responsibility of the FPS Interior and the services of the provincial governors. There are no customs counters planned in places with stranded drivers. Customs declarations must be drawn up by trade, i.e. importers, exporters and customs representatives. Circulation plans do not fall within the competence of the customs authorities. I can say that there is a great deal of cooperation with the services of the Interior in this area. In Belgium, community systems allow exporters and importers to digitally report their cargo to or from the United Kingdom in advance. This is similar to Portbase in the Netherlands. For the port of Zeebrugge there is the system RX/SeaPort, for the port of Antwerp it is NxtPort and for the airport of Zaventem it is BRUcloud. Bierset Airport also has such a community system that is currently nameless. The number of extra customs officers in Zeebrugge is sufficient. On 10 October 2019, customs organised an operational stress test in collaboration with key stakeholders. This showed that customs processing capacity is in line with the expected increase in traffic. The Brexit has an impact not only on the external borders such as Zeebrugge but also on the interior. Certain facilitation measures, such as the licence loading site where the export control is carried out by the operator and not at the external border, require an additional staff deployment in the interior. There are no moving plans at the moment. The central administration of customs is and will continue to be located in Brussels. Customs have been assisting Belgian companies since the Brexireféendum. Businesses can obtain information on the customs Brexit website, during the more than 100 seminars and events organised by customs and through the call centre that also played an active role by proactive contacting companies. If industry were to set up a buddy system by analogy with the Netherlands, this initiative could of course count on the support of customs. The Belgian customs authorities, together with France, have taken initiatives and organized seminars in Romania, Poland and the Czech Republic to raise awareness of trade there. In addition, all customers of the ferry services at Zeebrugge receive the message from the shipping companies that a booking is only possible if the customs formalities are fully completed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u51	Thank you, Minister, for the clarification and additional information. In West Flanders there is still a lot of uncertainty and concerns about the preparations. However, I understand that many measures have already been taken. I'll pass that on.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u52	Mr Minister, the European Council has taken the decision to grant a postponement of Brexit so that the vote can take place in the United Kingdom after a period of reflection. To limit the negative consequences of leaving the European Union without agreement, the Federal State and the Regions have introduced a general measure of temporary fiscal fiction. This transitional regime is based on reciprocity and is in line with the measures agreed at Belgian and European level. In the interests of legal certainty, simplicity and equality of rights, the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland are considered to be still part of the European Union until a given date. This is where there is a problem since the date chosen by the Federal State and the Brussels Region is 31 December 2019 and the date chosen by the Walloon and Flemish Regions is 31 December 2020. Minister, do you not think that it is necessary to amend the law of 3 April 2019 by stating that in the case of Brexit without agreement, the fiscal fiction will apply until 31 December 2020? What provision have you made in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u53	Dear colleague, the Act of 3 April 2019 on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union provided for a transitional period of general assimilation of the United Kingdom into a Member State of the European Union for tax matters until 31 December 2019 in the case of Brexit without agreement. Having regard to the decision of the European Council taken in agreement with the United Kingdom on 29 October 2019 extending the negotiating deadline once again, no exit without agreement may take place until 31 January 2020. I will then propose to adapt the law of 3 April 2019 in order to change that date from 31 December 2019 to 31 December 2020 before the end of the year. A draft legislative amendment is being prepared.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u54	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u55	Minister, we live in the country of surrealism; I also like to see the Belgian surrealists. Today an article has been published about the FPS Finance who recently launched an advertising campaign on its website MyMinfin.be and also via social media. Tax-on-web is part of that, among other things. It would make life easier and so it is for a piece. We shouldn't throw away the baby with the bathwater. It is a bit surreal, because a few weeks ago the Royal Association of Accountants and Accountants called for a further delay in filing the personal income tax return, in particular until 17 November. Reference was made to the ongoing problems with Tax-on-web, the electronic system of finance. Normally all tax returns for the previous financial year had to be submitted by 24 October at the latest, but the FPS Finance granted two extensions: first until 5 November and then until 7 November. There is displeasure at the professional association. The size is full. At each deadline one must pull the alarm bell. The professional association stresses that the failing IT system behind Tax-on-web requires structural investment. It is pointed out that every time a busy period arrives, the system cannot cope with the influx and crashes. More than 300,000 declarations have been filed since 24 October. There's frustration and a waste of time. Firstly, do you believe that additional funds should be provided to invest in Tax-on-web? Secondly, how do you intend to remedy the current problem? Thirdly, what are your views on the proposal that, pending one or more structural solutions, interim deadlines should be used to meet a certain percentage of the declarations? This would avoid the rush that we are talking about at all times.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u56	Minister, like Christmas parties, this is a question that comes back every year, not because of the poor quality of the tool but because of the massive demand for this tool at a specific time, that is, around the end of the legal deadline. This poses problems on a regular basis and we should analyse different working hypotheses. On the one hand, we could review the opportunities for introducing the various tax declarations. On the other hand, we could solve these technical problems. I'd like to talk to you about these problems. Have you considered extending the deadline for filing PPI returns? How could this excellent tool be improved when it works.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u57	Madam President, Minister, we were talking earlier about the Biztax, now we are talking about Tax-on-Web. I had tabled a written question on this subject, but in view of the urgency and the fact that other colleagues have put oral questions on this subject, I chose to endorse it. Most cases have already been cited. Even today, I've received complaints about MyMinfin and you don't have to feel lonely about eGRIFIE. Colleagues of yours have the same problems, you are not alone. I can only repeat the questions and recommendations. What will be done about it? I believe that investments are needed to make the platform sufficiently robust. By when do you expect us to have a stable and reliable application?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u58	Madam President, the mandate holder of Tax-on-web experienced three interruptions in the months of September, October and November, the last being on 7 November, at a simultaneous and massive retrieval by the man data officers of the lists of submitted declarations. To ensure continuity, the necessary measures were taken on servers and infrastructure. Due to technical problems, the deadline for returns has been adjusted twice to allow agents to deliver a full and quality product. This report lasted until 12 November last. Every year, improvements are made to Tax-on-web to improve availability and performance. The Tax-on-web public servant application did not encounter any service interruptions this year. The Tax-on-web citizen app has only experienced one interruption. Nevertheless, I certainly cannot and will not sweep the problems of the past few months under the mat. There is no doubt that citizens have the right to a quality service because of the government. I have therefore asked my administration to investigate all incidents and to prepare itself better in the coming years. There will also be consultations with the professions, which submit many declarations. In order to make Tax-on-web more robust for managers, additional investments in database specialists and database infrastructure will be made in 2020, in order to cope with the influx of man-datarissen declarations during the last week. The entire Tax-on-web application was also included in a plan of functional, user-oriented and technological evaluation, which will run over several years and will be launched from the beginning of 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u59	Madam President, Minister, I am sure you will take the issue seriously. You have announced some initiatives, including consultation with professional groups, of course better preparation for services and a more reinforced or updated database infrastructure. These are all positive measures. We hope that there will be some improvement in the coming years, especially for the mandatators.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u60	Minister, I share the same view.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u61	Madam President, Minister, you have replied that many improvements have been made to Tax-on-Web on a functional level and that new applications have been introduced. That's right, and that's why the system has more success every year. It is therefore necessary to anticipate this additional success and to ensure that there is additional capacity to meet the additional demand. I come from the computer world and understand that perception is not always the same as reality. When a person makes five successful returns and the sixth fails, that sixth declaration remains in the mind. However, as you know, perception is also an important thing to manage. However, if we can invest in database specialists and in capacity, we can move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u62	Madam President, Minister, the OECD has been responsible for international negotiations on the taxation of the digital economy and more broadly on the taxation of multinational enterprises. The Organisation is committed to relaunching negotiations in this area by asking itself key questions, including whether negotiations should be limited to the taxation of the digital sector, particularly the famous GAFAMs, or whether they can go further. According to the negotiating mandate, "digital transformation affects the entire economy and it would be difficult, if not impossible, to isolate the digital economy", which calls for an expansion of negotiations beyond taxation by a handful of companies in a single sector of the economy. The OECD has expanded participation in a new forum, the OECD/G20 inclusive BEPS Framework, which now brings together 135 countries (including developing countries). This negotiation should be concluded and endorsed by the G20 at the end of 2020. The presence of developing countries around the negotiating table, however, has a cost: all the measures taken under the BEPS plan have a retroactive effect. They must therefore be implemented by all members of the inclusive framework, without having a say in the negotiations. Minister, such a negotiation would be a good step forward in the fight against tax dumping. Belgium can play an important role in this negotiation, since it is a member of the steering committee for the inclusive framework. Minister, given Belgium's presence on the steering committee, the government has certainly given the negotiators a clear mandate. Could you tell us what the mandate of the Belgian negotiators is? Could you also take stock of the status of the case and tell us what has already been achieved and what is still under negotiation? Do you confirm the date of November 2020 to be completed?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u63	Madam President, Mr Laaouej, Belgium has been working constructively on the OECD's work on the digital economy since the start of the project and will continue this collaboration until the completion of the project in 2020. As for the status of the project, nothing has yet been achieved. Some elements are at a more important stage of development than others, but all are still in the exploratory phase, in the sense that, for each element, several options still coexist. The contours of new principles under the two pillars are beginning to emerge, but many guidelines still need to be clarified. Various expert groups are currently working on these issues. With regard to pillar 1, the scope and possible exceptions for certain economic sectors still need to be clarified. In particular, the discussions will be informed by the results of the public consultation on this pillar, which was in progress until 12 November. Impact assessments are also being carried out. With regard to pillar 2, the objective is to create a level playing faith between countries, which requires the installation of a minimum level of taxation. Many questions still need to be resolved, particularly as regards the rate, the definition of the tax base and the scope of application. All these discussions will be open to all member countries of the inclusive framework, which brings together more than 130 States, including many developing countries. They will have the opportunity to make their views known. The Belgian representative's positions in the steering committee for the inclusive framework are always intended to contribute constructively to the ongoing projects while ensuring that Belgium's interests are safeguarded.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u64	Minister, thank you for your answers. I note that there is still a lot of work to be done before it can be achieved, since we must agree on the rate, on the base, on the basis, in other words, on the three components of any tax. Nevertheless, there is a real opportunity. The OECD has shown that it can be an effective and operational framework, particularly at the level of BEPS. Indeed, in essence, we are committed to ensuring that there is as little tax competition as possible between States. Those committed to tax justice will consider this to be justified in the name of tax justice. Those who are committed to the proper functioning of a market will consider that this will enable the market to function well. Finally, both can join; this does not happen every day. But we understand that all of these big global companies, GAFAMs, obviously benefit from the lack of tax harmonisation and derive much of their wealth from our thriving European economy, which has a half-billion consumer market, sometimes without paying any taxes while our small SMEs pay their taxes. There would be, I believe, an interesting tax deposit for state finances, for Europe's finances, which, moreover, would not hinder the growth of these enterprises, but could alleviate our public finances and, why not, allow us to have additional resources to finance other countries or even reduce taxes on individuals or SMEs. These are all reasons to encourage you, Minister, to ensure that our negotiators actively contribute to the outcome of this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u65	Madam President, Minister, a few weeks ago we heard that the Antwerp District Court brought an action against the administrators of the bankrupt Corsan for swindling a number of people who had used the tax shelter. Some 500 SMEs had invested through the tax shelter system and had been granted a provisional exemption for this purpose, but could not ultimately obtain the definitive exemption. As a result, they were still taxed, but also faced with a tax increase and negligence which, depending on the file, could reach between EUR 1 000 and EUR 10 000. When your predecessor was confronted with this, he said that they would be flexible. It was later established that each individual file also required an individual request for remission. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, can you clarify how the administration has dealt with the investors? Secondly, as far as the negligence concerns are concerned, how many investors have requested the application of Article 417 of the WIB 92? How have we dealt with this? Thirdly, the same story with regard to tax increases. Has the right of grace been exercised? If yes, was the request for an exemption from tax increase accepted? Finally, can you tell me if the administration has set itself a civil party in the case of scams by using the tax shelter?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u66	Madam President, Mr Matheï, my administration has acted and acted as my predecessor pointed out. In making a decision on the applications submitted by investors who have invested in good faith and who have not entered the exemption on their profits as final, the advisers-general have always taken into account the particular circumstances which arise in this case and in each individual file. As regards the figures requested, 154 investors asked for the waiver of the negligence interests, 128 of which were accepted. The total amount of remission of negligence is EUR 1.6 million and the average amount cancelled is EUR 12.579. Two investors applied to the tax mediation service responsible for obtaining a reduction or remission of the tax increases, for a total amount of 9.579 euros. However, no reduction or remission of administrative sanctions was granted because of infringements which are legally excluded from reduction or remission.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u67	Thank you for your reply, Minister. It is good to hear that, as far as the interest in negligence is concerned, the maximum has been taken into account. The system is being promoted. It is also an interesting system, but of course it cannot be that the investors will suffer if something goes wrong with the system.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u68	Madam President, Minister, my question concerns horizontal supervision. I refer to your predecessor's policy paper last year. It indicated that a pilot project on horizontal monitoring would start. I would also refer to the hearing on the fight against fraud which took place a few weeks ago, when the pilot project was discussed, indicating that it has a difficult start. As an explanation, it was pointed out that companies would have difficulty with the mind switch from the classic conflict model in Belgium to a cooperation model with the tax authorities. On the field, however, I hear that the conditions for joining the horizontal monitoring project are very strict and that this may also explain why companies are dropping out. Mr Minister, can you clarify how many companies have already been or have indicated their interest in participating in the pilot project for large companies? Can you confirm that not only the mind switch plays a decisive role, but also the strict conditions, so that one cannot sign in? Are there any actions planned to make this pilot project work? Can you give an update on the parallel project for SMEs, which was also announced?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u69	Madam President, in the meantime, three large enterprise groups have started the take-in phase of the so-called Co-operative Tax Compliance Programme (CTCP) of the Large Enterprises Administration. Two others showed interest in joining. It is true that the shift of emphasis from a control over the past to a current fiscal insight presupposes a different mindset for both parties. The starting point is an open and constructive dialogue between the two sides. The model focuses on the analysis of the business processes and the risk associated with these processes. Therefore, the programme requires the presence of a tax control framework (TCF) among the participating enterprise groups. A tax control framework is sometimes perceived as a significant administrative procedure. The initial experience shows that the TCF provides a basis at the start of the journey, both for the company and for the administrative follow-up team that guides the company through the journey. By the way, the TCF is an evolutionary process, which the company runs along with the follow-up team. Moreover, a strong TCF is accompanied by lower business risks, resulting in a win-win situation, both for the companies and for my administration. As for your third question, in order to give the project every opportunity and to play briefly on the ball, soon frequently asked questions will be published that answer questions that were asked during various performances by the experts and their advisers. In addition, my administration is planning a new communication moment about the CTCP. My administration also guides its employees in making that mind switch from a repressive to a proactive action through targeted training that focuses on the development of soft skills and also through a workshop on analysis and assessment from the TCF. Experiences with the first enterprise groups are positive and take place in an open dialogue with mutual respect. In 2018, the SME administration organised a study round on the introduction of horizontal supervision in SMEs. Interest and expectations have also been surveyed through open discussions with representatives of the economic professions and a number of sectoral organisations. Meanwhile, the administration creates a relationship of trust between SMEs and its stakeholders by exchanging more information and working together to find concrete initiatives or technological solutions to reduce administrative burdens. The first concrete realization in this context is a geolocalization app in which the very formalistic burden of proof for restaurant receipts, castickets, fuel invoices, taxi rides and others in the context of demonstrating the presence abroad is replaced by an app that automatically captures geolocalization in an almost intuitive way. Other ideas and concepts are still being studied.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u70	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. It is good to hear that three large companies have already entered the project and that it is currently being seen as positive. We are also pleased to hear that the initiative of the FAQs on the website can remove certain concerns and we look forward to the initiatives around the SMEs.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u71	Minister, the fight against international tax fraud is an important fact. There are also projects in Belgium, including at Febelfin, to ensure that data exchange is efficient and that suspicious transactions are detected. The report of the Panama Papers Committee of Inquiry stated that tackling international tax fraud is best done internationally, as fraud structures are usually developed at international level. One of the recommendations was a European agency which should be entrusted with the task of supporting Member States in the fight against international tax fraud and risk analysis. Can you clarify what steps have already been taken in setting up the Agency? What steps are still planned in the near future? What policy will you follow at the European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u72	Madam President, this is recommendation 123 of the Panama Papers Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, which reads as follows: "Insofar as OLAF is unable to assume this role, Belgium must take initiatives to set up, at European level, a European agency composed of national officials from the Member States in charge of supporting Member States in the fight against international tax fraud and risk analysis with a view to selecting effective controls." I can fully support that recommendation. The fight against international fraud requires an integrated approach across national borders. Coordination and mutual trust between Member States are essential. The creation of an EU agency can be the culmination of genuinely integrated multinational action by the various Member States. Of course, this requires a unanimous agreement at EU level. Meanwhile, my administration, and in particular the general administration of the BBI, contributes to this through the transactional network analysis or TNA project, which I mentioned in the answer to a previous question. Finally, I can assure you that I will defend the idea of an EU agency, if necessary, at various levels.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u73	Thank you for your reply, Minister, and for your positive attitude towards an EU agency, which we can also support.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u74	Questions Nos 55001523C by Mrs Dierick and 55001529C by Mrs Jadin are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u75	Minister, Article 17 of the OECD Model Convention contains a provision on foreign sportsmen and women performing in Belgium. A corporate tax of 18% has been fixed for them. At present, e-athletes are gaining ground, both in Belgium and abroad. There are even several football clubs engaged in recruiting e-athletes, in order to attract interest in this way. Mr Minister, are the non-residents who come to Belgium to practice e-sports also considered to be sportsmen within the meaning of Article 17 of the OECD Model Convention? Can you clarify how the administration handles this? Can you clarify whether the declarations, for a total amount of EUR 23.3 million, as shown by your answer to a parliamentary question of 8 August 2019, include the e-athletes' declarations? Are the Belgian e-sporters exercising e-sports abroad taxed in the same way as required by the OECD Model Convention? Or is it also happening that Belgian e-athletes are still taxed for their performance abroad?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u76	This is a new feature for my administration. My administration is currently examining this issue. We cannot yet take a definitive position on this, but I think it is right to do so. The question is also whether this should be seen as a sport. There is still a position to be taken on this. I will ask my administration to take a position on this quickly. I don't think we can wait too long with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u77	If we can believe the media, there are several organisations involved in organising major tournaments in Belgium, where many foreign e-athletes are expected. So that's definitely something up-to-date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u78	Minister, at the end of the previous legislature, the Chamber of Representatives adopted a very broad-based bill to introduce a code of ethics, an oath and disciplinary regime for the banking sector. The so-called 'bankers' oath' is a convincing signal from all those involved in the sector that they are committed to the integrity and interests of the customer. However, this Act shall enter into force only on a date determined by the Council of Ministers after consultation with credit institutions on its implementation would be held by 31 December 2019. I have the following questions, Minister. Firstly, has the consultation with the credit institutions already taken place? If so, what were the results and discussed topics of this consultation? If not, when will this consultation take place? Secondly, can the government decide on the date of entry into force of this law in current cases after this consultation? If so, what date are you aiming at?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u79	Thank you for your question. Indeed, many elements of the law require close consultation with the sector. This applies, among other things, to the definition of the practical scope of the law, the elaboration of a code of ethics and the way in which the deontology of the sector is to be enforced. In the past, there have been several contacts with Febelfin. A formal consultation will be launched in the coming weeks within the legal deadline of 31 December this year. Whether and to what extent the government can decide on the date of entry into force of the law in current cases will depend, inter alia, on the outcome of the consultation, as well as on the concrete implementing measures necessary to implement the law. This also requires a KB to be declared, and that is not the case in current cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u80	I understand that it will be difficult for a government in current cases to bring the law into force, but I am pleased to hear that you intend to comply effectively with the law and organise a consultation by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u81	Madam President, Minister, in April 2016 the Panama Papers scandal, unveiled by a consortium of journalists, broke out. They had updated an impressive number of documents relating to offshore accounts and international tax fraud. It is recalled that hundreds of Belgian taxpayers were involved; this Parliament initiated a special committee and then investigated the matter. Minister, I would like to take stock with you of the number of cases opened in the tax administration. How many cases have they already been closed? How many officers are assigned to the processing of these particular cases? What are the amounts currently enrolled? Finally, what amounts are actually recovered?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u82	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that at the ISI 40 cases are still open in this case; 226 cases have been closed; 46 ISI officers have intervened sporadically in various ways (pre-investigation, litigation, taxation) in their handling. Enrolment amounts to €18,918,423.87. Of this amount, €15,633,451.99 was actually received.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u83	Minister, thank you. It's clear, clear and precise.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u84	Madam President, Minister, small businesses benefit from a VAT exemption if their annual turnover is less than EUR 25,000. We note that many companies and non-profit organisations use this exemption. The advantage is that they hardly have to run a VAT administration. At the same time, they have a competitive advantage as they do not have to charge VAT. We heard that on 8 November last the European Council discussed a proposal for amending the VAT Directive, including a special scheme for small businesses. Can you confirm, Minister, that this agreement allows Member States to exempt goods and services up to EUR 85 000? If so, how does that increase relate to the argument of distortion of competition between taxable persons and non-taxable persons or exempt taxable persons? Could you clarify what the organisational and financial impact would be if Belgium increased the threshold of EUR 25,000 for the exemption to EUR 85,000? How many companies and associations could potentially benefit from this? What would that increase mean for the Belgian Treasury? Finally, will our country approve this increase within the Council? If that is the intention, is that approval possible, given that the government is in current cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u85	Madam President, Mr Matheï, the text containing the proposal for a directive reforming the exemption for small businesses was adopted at the Ecofin Council on 8 November 2019. One of the pillars of the reform is that Member States should be given more margin to set their national threshold for this exemption scheme, provided that it does not exceed EUR 85 000. In this way, Member States wishing to raise their threshold will no longer have to ask for authorisation from the Council, which they had previously had to renew every three years. The new scheme therefore does not impose any obligation to set the threshold at a certain amount or at the maximum amount of EUR 85 000. Indeed, such a decision could not be taken by a government in current cases. Under the new scheme, each individual Member State will be able to take maximum account of the specificities of its national market and the operators active in it when setting the threshold amount. In this way, the scheme provides the necessary flexibility to avoid possible distortions of competition on the national market of a certain extent between taxable persons operating within and outside the freedom regime. The new European provisions should not be transposed by the Member States until 31 December 2024 with a view to their entry into force on 1 January 2025. Your question about the organisational and financial impact of a threshold increase requires a number of searches and calculations that could not be done within the short timeframe for answering your question. I have instructed my administration to do what is necessary, and I will provide you with the information requested as soon as they are available. More generally, if you ask questions like this in writing, it is easier to give you all the information. There is too little time for oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u86	Thank you, Minister, for this answer, for which I fully understand. I am pleased to hear that there will be more margin for Member States to set their own threshold. It is important for Belgium to think carefully, because any increase in the threshold could be particularly interesting for non-profit organisations in order to reduce the planning burden.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u87	Mr Minister, if the liquidation of a company is closed and the tax authority wishes to establish another tax charge, it is common law to establish the tax assessment in the name of the liquidator and in his capacity as liquidator. In other words, it must contain the name of the liquidator with the words "payer of company X'. A new category of tax liability was added by the Law of 2 May 2019 to Article 357 of the WIB 92, in particular the liquidator of the legal person whose liquidation is closed, in that capacity, or, in the absence thereof, the persons who are considered to be liquidators, in particular the last directors. However, there is doubt about the proper scope of this addition in practice. Mr Minister, my questions are as follows. Should this addition, in addition to the name of the liquidator, also indicate that he is designated as a tax debtor "in the capacity of liquidator"? Does this imply that the name of the company in question still has to be mentioned in the kohier? What is the difference with the term "competitor"? It always gets more technical: is the liquidator referred to as an additional debtor and therefore his personal assets come into the sight of the recipient, without the liquidator making a mistake? Should we consider the addition merely as a reminder for the tax authorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u88	Mr Van der Donkt, the judgment of the Antwerp Court of Appeal of 27 July 2017 ruled that the attacks established in the name of a related company were in fact addressed to a company which no longer exists and that such attacks should be made in the name of the liquidator in his capacity as the liquidator of the related company. The indication of "in the capacity of the debtor of the company" provides clarity as to the fact that the liquidator is addressed on behalf of the defendant company. For this reason, the term "in the capacity of the liquidator" is also used, and not only "the liquidator of the company." The administration thus adapts to existing case law. The details of the hit note are the same as the data of the kohier. The preparatory works on the items mentioned by you state that the assessment is to be made on the basis of the liquidator's qualite in terms of the representative of the company in question. As a result, no additional obligations are created for the liquidator in his personal name. The action brought against the debtor in that capacity is in fact an action brought against an institution of the company in question and cannot therefore lead to a personal conviction on the part of the debtor. The liquidator shall remain responsible for the distribution of the assets of the company in question and shall adjust its distribution if it appears that additional tax debts are still to be settled in respect of the company in question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u89	Thank you, Minister, for the enlightening explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u90	Minister, the Ecofin Council of 12 February 2019 held an exchange of views on the proposal to decide tax matters at European level with a qualifying majority rule. This meeting was not public and its reporting was limited. It is therefore unclear what position you have taken on behalf of Belgium with regard to this proposal. The IW-Kurtz Message 31/2019 divides the EU Member States into two groups: a group of small EU Member States in favour of unanimity and a group of major EU Member States in favour of the qualifying majority rule. The strange thing is that in that message Belgium is placed in the latter group. My question is therefore brief: what position did you take on behalf of Belgium at the Ecofin Council of 12 February 2019 with regard to the proposal to decide tax matters at EU level by a qualifying majority and why?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u91	Mr Van der Donkt, Belgium will take a final position after the period of current cases after it has weighed all the advantages and disadvantages of the qualifying majority rule in tax files. On the one hand, we will continue to contribute positively to the discussion, bearing in mind the traditional Belgian position of support for the Community method and qualified majority voting in the Council. Unanimity can prevent smooth decision-making. On the other hand, a small country such as Belgium must be cautious about the possible consequences of a qualified majority due to the weight of the large Member States. In any case, it is awaiting an initiative from the next Commission to reopen the debate. Perhaps we will have a government with full authority by then.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u92	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I would like to give you something more, and you have already more or less appreciated it in your reply. I refer, among other things, to the French economist Zuchman, an unsuspecting source, who has calculated that our country, with its niche fiscality, is still able to raise 2.3 billion corporate taxes. You may suspect that the large countries, which are in favour of this qualified majority, are not very keen on that. It may well be that we would lose that income from corporate taxes if we followed the large EU Member States in these.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u93	Questions Nos 55001634C and 55001635C by Mr Loones were postponed. The same applies to Question No 55001638C by Mrs Thémont and Question No 55001639C by Mr. Ben Achour.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u94	Minister, NewB is a Belgian cooperative building an ethical and sustainable bank in our country. It aims to focus 100% of its funding on climate transition and makes ethical policy an absolute spearhead. The presence of such a cooperative bank in Belgium would add value to the banking landscape and could reinforce and accelerate the positive developments taking place in the banking sector. The cooperative can count on broad support in civil society. More than 150 organizations are cooperative, ranging from the Family Association on the World Wildlife Fund to FairFin. In addition, 50,000 citizens had already invested in this initiative last year. To obtain a banking license next year, NewB was commissioned to raise 30 million euros by 27 November. Since the end of October thousands of citizens have put their trust in this project, but the cooperative is still looking for a number of institutional investors. Minister, I have two questions. Firstly, is the government prepared to publicly express its support for this project, just as the Brussels Government did at the end of last week? Secondly, will the Federal Participatory and Investment Company (FPIM) invest in NewB, just as Brussels' regional investment company did? Will you recommend that to her?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u95	Mr Vanbesien, I have also seen the coverage of NewB and personally I think it is an interesting project. The decision as to whether it is appropriate for the FPIM to invest in it should be taken by the FPIM Board. It is not that the FPIM is a kind of vehicle that we politically steer. In any case, any investigation of a possible investment is confidential. Moreover, in the specific case of the NewB project, I think it is important that both the government and the FPIM do not make any communication before 27 November, so as not to affect citizens in any way. I say that more generally. I am not saying that one thing or another is being done. You also asked whether the federal government could take a position on this. Compared to such projects, this is generally not done by a government. We are also in a current situation, which is not the case for the Brussels Government.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-20-55-commissie-ic056x.u96	Thank you for your reply, Minister. In the context of such innovative cooperative initiatives, a word of support to institutional investors might give the small push that is still needed. As far as the FPIM is concerned, I know that you cannot make your own decision, but a word can already do wonders. The FPIM was founded with a social vision in mind. The objectives of the FPIM can perfectly coincide with the project that is being set up here. Any initiative that can help to make the project work is more than welcome.
