ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u2	[[for the standing meeting]] The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to begin this commemorative moment with a quote from Mohamed El Bachiri, a Moroccan Belgian, Muslim and Molenbekenaar who lost his wife, his great love and the mother of his children on 22 March 2016. He wrote a book called:A jihad of love. I quote: "The jihad of love must be the answer to the people who want to divide us and propagate violence and terrorism. Cursed be the war, cursed be terrorism. Three years ago, on Tuesday, 22 March, our country was shaken by several bloody attacks. Thirty-two people were suddenly broke by cowardly and foolish acts, leaving a void that can never be filled again. Public life in our country has stopped collectively. I remember as you do this terrible silence in the deserted streets of Brussels. Sadness, indignation, anguish and anger then are still very present today. The wave of memory is still as strong and leaves behind it countless torn families and many lives forever broken. On that day, we all lost a small part of ourselves. But let us not forget that beside all this suffering, there is also room for hope, faith and fraternity. Memories are important to highlight the tragic consequences of hatred, extremism and fundamentalism. Stand still is a good way to think. Freeze? Sure, but also and above all dare to move on. Of course, we must remain vigilant, but we must not be guided by fear. We, as an assembly, have been given the responsibility of driving the country. Over and over again, we have to respond to complex challenges and are expected to make difficult decisions. Fear, anger and hatred are bad counselors. These are feelings that allow individuals to cause so much suffering, three years ago with us, last week in Christchurch in New Zealand and on Monday in Utrecht. The nauseous ideas underlying this blind violence – whether dictated by racism or religious fundamentalism – must be fought hard by the democrats we are. Ideal in motion, the spirit of the Enlightenment still has much to do in today's society. Let us not be naive to believe that our democracies are eternal. The spirit of the Enlightenment is struggling with strong resistances that remain deeply rooted in society. That is why we cannot lose sight of the principles of the Enlightenment, but we must, on the contrary, actively defend them. Colleagues, I would like to conclude with a poem by the same Mohamed El Bachiri: Bathing in love, floating on the river of life: nothing justifies hatred, nothing will lead to hatred. Even the toughest trials and the greatest disappointments will not make us yield to a language or ideology that calls for hatred and destruction. Let us continue from the heart and reason, with a conviction, religious or not. Let's tap into love, that inexhaustible raw material that comes from the heart and not from the soil.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we commemorate 22 March 2016, a day that began as many other days with the daily routines that we all know. It wasn't supposed to stay that way. At 7:48 p.m., our country was shocked by the first attack in Zaventem. At 09.11 hours followed the second attack in Maalbeek. As the President said, thirty-two people were being ripped away from us by cowardly and pointless acts. Hundreds were wounded, many of them for life. We are already at the third commemoration. I still can't understand the absurdity of events. We have taken many security measures. The victims and their families deserve our support and sympathy. We must remain hopeful and united, because the intention of the terrorists was to divide our society through terror. They failed. Immediately after the attacks, people came together from all sides to help, care for and support. The aid, from all sides, was world-class and showed the strength of cooperation and hope. Let us not forget what unites us. Let us never forget what our values are. Fear can only be overcome together, with hope, both in the long term and in our daily tasks. 22 March 2016 was a black day, a day when lives were destroyed. The only meaningful response of society is to grow closer to each other. Let this commemoration of the victims be a guide in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u4	Thank you, Minister. At this moment only a few moments of silence fit here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u5	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 March 2019, I propose that the following points be inserted after points 1 and 2: 9. the draft law amending the Law of 15 April 1994 on the protection of the general public and the environment against the dangers arising from ionizing radiation and on the Federal Nuclear Control Agency on nuclear cybersecurity, Nos 3336/1 to 4. 10. the draft law approving the Multilateral Agreement implementing tax-related measures to prevent base erosion and profit shifting and the explanatory Note, done in Paris on 24 November 2016, Nos 3510/1 to 3. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 March 2019, I propose that you insert the following points after points 1 and 2: 9. The draft law amending the Act of 15 April 1994 on the protection of the population and the environment from the dangers arising from ionizing radiation and relating to the Federal Agency for Nuclear Control concerning nuclear cybersecurity, Nos. 3336/1 to 4. 10. the draft law approving the Multilateral Convention for the Implementation of Measures relating to Tax Treaties to Prevent the Erosion of the Basis of Taxation and the Transfer of Profits and the Explanatory Note, done at Paris on 24 November 2016, Nos. 3510/1 to 3. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 March 2019, I propose to postpone the discussion of the following points to next week: 3. the legislative proposal (Mr Damien Thiéry, Mrs Els Van Hoof and Mr Dirk Janssens) laying down various provisions relating to proprietary medicinal products, watchkeeping services of pharmacists and prophylactic measures relating to poliomyelitis, Nos 3504/1 to 3. 4. the bill (Mrs Nathalie Muylle and Ine Somers, Mr Damien Thiéry) amending the coordinated law of 10 May 2015 on the pursuit of health professions, Nos 3526/1 to 4. 5. the legislative proposal (Mrs Ine Somers, Mr Damien Thiéry, Ms Nathalie Muylle and Mr Dirk Janssens) amending provisions concerning the provision of scientific and technical advice by the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products and on the financing of the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products, Nos 3519/1 to 5. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 March 2019, I propose that you postpone the discussion of the following points until next week: 3. the proposal for a law (Mr Damien Thiéry, Ms Els Van Hoof and Mr Dirk Janssens) on various provisions in the field of proprietary medicinal products, keeping pharmacists and prophylactic measures in the field of poliomyelitis, Nos. 3504/1 to 3. 4. the bill (Ms Nathalie Muylle and Ine Somers, Mr Damien Thiéry) amending the coordinated law of 10 May 2015 on the exercise of health professions, Nos. 3526/1 to 4. 5. the bill (Ms. Ine Somers, Mr. Damien Thiéry, Ms. Nathalie Muylle and Mr. Dirk Janssens) amending provisions relating to the provision of scientific and technical advice by the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products and concerning the financing of the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products, Nos. 3519/1 to 5. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 March 2019, I propose that you register on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: 12. the legislative proposal (Mrs Veerle Wouters and Mr Hendrik Vuye) amending the laws of 18 July 1966 on the use of languages in administrative matters as regards the supervision of the implementation of these laws, No. 2299/1. The Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Public Prosecutor proposes that this proposal be rejected. 13. the legislative proposal (Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mrs Nathalie Muylle and Mr Leen Dierick and Mr Dirk Janssens) laying down various provisions on agriculture and certain budgetary funds and provision on social integration, Nos 3551/1 to 3. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 March 2019, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: 12. the bill (Ms. Veerle Wouters and Mr. Hendrik Vuye) amending the Acts of 18 July 1966 on the use of languages in administrative matters with regard to the monitoring of the implementation of these Acts, No. 2299/1. The Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service proposes to reject this proposal. 13. the bill (Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mrs Nathalie Muylle and Mr Len Dierick and Mr Dirk Janssens) laying down various provisions in the field of agriculture, concerning certain budgetary funds and in the field of social integration, Nos. 3551/1 to 3. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u6	Mr Vice Prime Minister, our Parliament is approaching the end of its work and the pre-election period is one where programmes are drawn up and posters are made. It is also the period in which Parliament and the government traditionally consider a list of articles of our Constitution which can be declared subject to revision. There are many ideas in Parliament, sometimes different, sometimes common, about what can be better done in our Constitution, where it can be renewed, where it can be deepened. In the past, even the whole of Parliament proposed articles in order to be able to work on them in the next policy period. Our Group, Ecolo-Green, is today presenting a common list of articles that we, as ecologists, wish to review. Only one man appears to have fear of his own shadow, and that is the Prime Minister. Apparently, the Prime Minister has so much fear of rumors about atoma agreements with the 2014 N-VA that he does not want to enter into a discussion with Parliament on the future of our Constitution in 2019. Mr Vice Prime Minister, the fear of a person, of someone who seems to be more active at the moment as party chairman than as prime minister, should not paralyze that fascinating debate. I can reassure you, as ecologists, we have very different ideas about the Constitution than the N-VA. The N-VA wishes to declare all articles of the Constitution subject to revision, including the article on the death penalty. We have very different ideas about this. We think that our Constitution should just anchor and strengthen a number of fundamental rights. The N-VA wants to split the country. We believe that a federal constituency is a very good idea to strengthen and deepen our country and to ensure greater cooperation. It is no secret that there are a lot of differences between us and the N-VA, between Mr De Roover and myself. On one point, I agree with Mr De Roover. If the government refuses a list of Parliament, on which there would be a majority here, then that is indeed a coup d'état. A government that represents barely one in three voters should have the humility and openness to make Parliament work on that point. Mr Vice Prime Minister, I am not asking you to approve our list. I'm not asking you to approve a list already. I would ask the government to send a clear signal: yes, the government will participate in such an exercise, no, there will be no veto from Charles Michel. That is not a question of state reform. This is a question of democracy and openness, which one can certainly expect from a government in current affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u7	Mr President, a debate on the possibility of revising a number of articles of the constitution actually amounts to considering a legislative proposal. Parliament is prepared to hold a debate on this. It is also perfectly possible for different groups to want certain articles to be subject to revision, but to disagree at all on what should ultimately happen to them. That is a matter for the next legislature. So it is basically just that Parliament has the openness to hold the debate on a number of articles in the next legislature. I don't remember any precedent. I've been sitting here for a while, in which Parliament has taken the lead in such a discussion. It was always the government that came to Parliament and proposed a list. It is, as it were, the smallest or the greatest common denominator, which is the subject of what we can do. I call that the smallest common denominator. It must be articles that are effectively on the list of the Chamber, the Senate and the government, la trinité or.I don't know if this is sacred to call the trinity. In short, these three institutions must try to find each other somewhere. Let's take this as our starting point. My group is not a requesting party for a new state reform in the next legislature. I believe that the country has other priorities. This distinguishes us, for example, from the colleagues of the N-VA. My group believes that it would be a very bad signal to close the Constitution completely and to say that no article can be the subject of a review. The government, Mr Vice Prime Minister, has the legal and technical capacity to do the latter. The President of the Chamber reminded me of this on the radio this morning. I am not going to call it a coup d'état, I am just going to say what I said in the Constitutional Commission. That would be a very unwise course of action. If Chamber and Senate can agree on a limited list, it seems to me that it is the logic itself for a government in current affairs to agree to it. I am only asking to be able to talk about a number of articles that have to do with our fundamental rights and freedoms. I am thinking of equality between men and women, the right to freedom of expression, the primacy or not of the Constitution on faith. These are fundamental questions that people are asking themselves. My question also relates to the size of the state apparatus. Do we need another Senate? Do we need 150 MPs? Should there be a right to vote or a right to vote in our country? Those questions have nothing to do with a state reform, but with a form of state reduction. Mr President, if Parliament establishes such a list, I think it would be inconceivable for a government which has no majority to block it legally and technically. This is not happening!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to apologise to the Prime Minister and to emphasise that there is no fear or veto, but that there are a number of other elements involved. I'll go over them. Firstly, it is important to refer to the Prime Minister's reply in the plenary session of 14 February 2019. Article 195 of the Constitution gives the federal legislature the right to declare that there are grounds for revising as many constitutional provisions as it designates and describes the procedure to be followed for the revision of the Constitution. Since the federal legislature is collectively exercised by the King, the Chamber and the Senate, three lists are necessary, even in current cases. A note from the services of the Chamber distributed at the Conference of Presidents confirms this legal analysis by the Prime Minister. Allow me to quote from this important note: "For the purposes of Article 36 of the Constitution, the federal legislature is collectively exercised by the King, the Chamber of Representatives and the Senate. A declaration for revision of the Constitution therefore requires the cooperation of the three branches of the legislature, since it is customary for each of them to adopt their own declaration of revision and thus be able to express their views with complete discretion. A declaration of revision can therefore never be adopted against the will of the Chamber and the Senate, not even in current cases. Nor can a declaration of revision be adopted against the will of the government." So much for the legal framework and the legal situation, on which there can be no ambiguity. The right of the Chamber to draw up a list or not is clearly also for the Senate and for the government. The review committee will meet next week to start discussing the various proposals put forward by the members of the Chamber. As far as the government is concerned, no decision has yet been taken on this. We have only had a first round of discussions, the core of which has not reached a decision. This issue will soon be raised again. The procedure is therefore very clear. No list can be approved by the Chamber alone or by the Government against the Chamber. Every branch of the legislative authority must be able to express its opinion on this matter with complete discretion.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u9	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, the glass is half full. You say that no decision has yet been made. That only motivates our group and probably many colleagues in Parliament to start the discussion next week. After all, the indecision of this government on current or previously still matters must not paralyze our country. If we in Parliament have any good ideas, I have already noticed this with the PS, with the sp.a. and with the Open Vld's in order to update and renew the Constitution in order to make our country better and to anchor fundamental rights, then we simply have to do so. We need to grab that. I hope, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, that the government will enter into dialogue with us on this matter. We are in a period of ongoing cases where the government regularly comes to Parliament to get things done. It would be a good thing for the government to adopt a similar attitude in the area of the Constitution, as we have done very often in Parliament in recent weeks. That is why I am looking at you, Mr President. I asked this question at the Conference of Presidents and now I am doing so in public: I demand that the Prime Minister come from his ivory tower and that he discuss this with us in Parliament, preferably in public, but if I have to, it is also good for me in the Conference of Presidents. I do not accept, however, that the government is now saying that it has not yet decided and then finally, without looking at Parliament, it is going to veto it. So the conversation is open, but it must be conducted. Hence my question, Mr President, to enter into dialogue with the Prime Minister on this matter and try to reach agreement on a number of articles. It is even my belief that this is not a gift to the nationalists. Not updating our Constitution, not anchoring fundamental rights, that is a gift for nationalists and populists. If Charles Michel wants, with five years of delay, to make a fist against the N-VA, then he will write with us a better Constitution, which goes for more cooperation and stronger fundamental rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u10	Mr President, you will have noted that Mr Calvo said that we should simply do so. The fact that our slogan is so eagerly taken over by other groups proves that it is a good slogan and that he is beckoning nicely. All madness, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, what you said on behalf of the government is important, namely that no decision has been taken. It is important that we should be able to conduct the debate here in the Chamber over the next few days, and I appeal to you, Mr President of the Chamber, in complete independence and autonomy, as one part of that trinity. At some point, the government will be confronted with what may appear to be a consensus in the Chamber and Senate. I am not going to anticipate that, but I would like to repeat my plea, Mr Deputy Prime Minister. When the government went into current affairs, it came to Parliament and said that it still had a certain ambition, but that it depended on majorities in this democratic house that still has full power to implement a certain policy. If you grant us that democratic legitimacy to pass laws, then you will take into account and respect that democratic legitimacy when it comes to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u11	Minister, we have more and more distressing testimony from the construction and transportation sectors about incredible social dumping. Truck drivers who work 80 hours a week for 400 euros a month is totally unacceptable in our country. Construction workers who would be paid 300 or 400 euros a month by not counting their hours, sleeping in barracks, is completely unacceptable. On the one hand, it is unfair competition with employees in Belgium and, on the other hand, these workers in the Eastern countries (Romania, Bulgaria, Poland) are facing completely unacceptable conditions! Last Monday, we were arrested by 150 FGTB activists. They've come to tell us it can't go on like this. They went to look at the grounds themselves. They themselves went with a delegation to Slovakia. What did they see there? That Belgian companies simply set up a seat there to bring Slovaks here. They're simple mailboxes. They compared the files with those of the Belgian companies that have gignon on the street and they set up mailboxes when they have no activity, not even a parking lot to park a truck there. These companies allegedly have an activity in Slovakia. This is totally unacceptable! Minister, people are wondering what politics is doing against this. In construction, which employs 320,000 workers, there are 32% postings. The EU is legally organising social dumping. It's not a question of dishonesty. It is the European Commission that wants to break all the working conditions we have in Belgium, allowing this social dumping. Minister, what are you going to do? I have the feeling that we are looking at it and allowing it to happen, so that the EU can continue to organise this competition. You'll tell me that Marianne Thyssen has taken steps. What measures? At the level of secondment, Belgian social rights are regulated only after 18 months in Belgium, and you know very well, Minister. These detachments are much shorter. In reality, it does not change anything. For the PTB, the fight must be fought against these mailboxes, against this social dumping organised by the EU. Minister, what are you planning to do in the short term to respond to the requests made by the FGTB last Monday?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u12	Mr Hedebouw, I agree with you on social dumping. We have started the fight against social dumping, but unfortunately it has not yet ended. I fully support the proposals put forward by FGTB, BBBV and others to combat social dumping. I do not agree with you when you say that we have not done anything yet. You say that the problem has not yet been dealt with in depth at both federal and European level. Firstly, we have a federal action plan to combat social fraud and social dumping. FGTB and ABVV came to my cabinet not so long ago and some of the proposals made by these organisations have now been converted into regulations, which are applied on the ground. Think of the reduction in the limit from EUR 800 000 to EUR 500 000 to determine whether there should be attendance at the yard. Fines for fictitious connection as a self-employed person have also doubled. Does it mean we're already here? No, additional measures are needed, which will be implemented this year. You are also wrong to claim that no results have yet been achieved. The policy against social fraud and social dumping has indeed produced results. For example, the revenue from the regularisation of foreign workers' wages has increased from 2.5 million to 19.8 million. I can give you more examples. There will also be additional actions. In 2019, the different inspection services will carry out at least 700 checks specifically focused on social dumping, as well as 270 checks specifically focused on fraudulent constructions. 10 network analyses are also carried out by the RSZ, based on the results obtained by data matching and data mining. You will recognize that this is also being done at European level, for example in the case of postal bus companies. Yesterday there was very clear coverage of that. The facts are very regrettable and we must continue to challenge them; in any case, steps have been taken forward. For example, the Posting of Workers Directive has been amended and there has been a very recent debate on Regulation 883. We must fight social dumping. I also agree with you that we are not here yet. The examples show that there is still social dumping from other EU countries in Belgium. That is unacceptable. However, I do not agree with you that nothing would have happened; we take the problem to heart.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u13	Minister, you are presenting eightfold results here, but I do not think you are looking at what is happening on the ground. Without the ABVV we knew nothing about Google for example. At Google, however, not a small company, there is social dumping. It just happens everywhere. For example, 32% of workers in the construction sector are posted. That is simply legally organised by Europe. You are right in what you say about inspections, but the problem is that Europe is actually organising this competition. The wages of the people who come to work here are lower. At the PTB, we say clearly: equal pay for equal work! The principle must be this one. The same social contributions must be paid in Belgium for all workers. That is the solution, minister, and you know it. The problem is, we don't get an answer. This unfair competition will therefore continue. The problem lies at the federal level as well as at the European level. The European Union must be combated today because it organises this competition. It's not a mistake. It is created for this purpose, tailor-made, so that employers can benefit as much as possible from competition between workers, by levelling down all the workers' achievements. That is one of the reasons why we have fought this fight, Minister, at the federal level. At European level, we do not yet have parliamentarians, but this will be better on the morning of 27 May. We'll lead the fight there. We will act on the Commissioners, whether it is Mrs Thyssen or not - we will see who will be European Commissioner - so that all the directives on secondment are reviewed. The basic principle of the European Union must be: equal work, equal pay!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u14	Mr Minister, here we are again. Week after week and question after question is about the Brexit. Each time we hope that there will be clarity and certainty very quickly. But she doesn't get there again and again. Last week, Prime Minister May asked for the Brexit to be postponed again, in particular until 30 June 2019. Let's be honest. Such a request for postponement sounds very simple, but perhaps opens a Pandora box again. There are many questions for us, for our country and for the European Union. There is the question of whether we will simply approve the postponement or whether we will attach conditions to the approval. There is also the question of whether or not we will lift the postponement over the European elections, with all the consequences. There is also the question of what will happen if the deal is fired off in the House of Commons next week and there is a demand for more delay than until 30 June 2019. It also raises the question of what will happen if, in the meantime, the British Government also falls. What scenario are we going to go into? Mr. Secretary, I have to be honest. When I look at the whole situation, we must quickly take a clear and firm stance towards the United Kingdom. After all, there is no room for postponement of execution. It's no good to anyone. At some point the playing time is over and we must move forward. In all this, there are three priorities for our country. A first priority is that we must have security for our companies and employees as quickly as possible. Secondly, we must be clear about the countrymen who are staying in the United Kingdom. Thirdly, the European Union must not let itself be broken up. We must remain united and not allow our policies and our institutions to be affected. Minister, is it not high time that we set a very clear and irrevocable date for the Brexit against the United Kingdom?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u15	Mr van Peteghem, I understand your reasoning. It's always very difficult to stay in great uncertainty. That certainly applies to the companies. However, there are facts. Prime Minister Theresa May sent a letter to the President of the European Council on 20 March 2019 asking the following questions: the approval of the documents negotiated with President Juncker in Strasbourg and the granting of an extension until 30 June 2019. It also states in the letter that it does not want to organise European elections. Those two questions will be addressed at today's European summit. The Belgian position is that Belgium does not want a cliff edge no deal and can be flexible about a short or long extension, provided that a defined objective is pursued, without compromising the proper functioning of the EU. The proper functioning of the EU includes the proper organisation of the European elections in all European countries between 23 and 26 May 2019. Mr van Peteghem, I would also draw your attention to the fact that, although this is not our choice, we must prepare ourselves for a no deal. It is therefore important that Parliament adopts the necessary legislation in good time. For us, therefore, an extension is possible, but only if a real objective is defined and if there is no harm to the functioning of the European institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. A short delay must indeed be possible if a final decision is to be taken. The only problem is that we do not know which Pandora box we are opening if there is no clarity from the United Kingdom next week or in the weeks after that. The indecision of the British cannot cripple the European Union and Belgium. There's a lot of uncertainty. There is a great deal of uncertainty for the companies and for the families who live there. We have to take that into account. If Europe takes a strong position vis-à-vis the United Kingdom, with a short delay but with very clear conditions, we can agree with that. After all, this is what it is about: clarity and security for our companies and for our residents.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u17	Mr President, Minister, in your former position as Minister of Defence, your nickname was Crembo, but today you are being bullied by your own party chairman, Mr Beke, who announced that he wants to come to Antwerp with a tank. I can't blame him. In the narcopolis that has become Antwerp, with every day a new attack and the war on drugs announced by Mayor Bart De Wever, it has become a drug mess in practice. Sixty attacks took place at three years' time, six attacks at barely three weeks' time, two this week. The district of Antwerp-North, which has 80 000 inhabitants and is the same size as, for example, the city of Mechelen, has become a confused zone. The citizens are terrified and rightly feel left to their own devices. The day before yesterday, the day before yesterday, after three years of drug war and sixty attacks in Antwerp, measures announced are too little, too late. The Streamplan, proposed just before the municipal elections in 2018, is not working. The mayor of Antwerp now even wants to have a review of the Kali team and the Power Plan carried out. Politicians are moving the blackbird to each other today. It is the fault of the Justice Department, or of the Antwerp city administration, which is also divided internally, or of the police, it is always someone else's fault. However, everyone agrees that fear in Antwerp must change camp. Once again, the drug dealers, the criminals and the mob bosses should be scared, not the Antwerp people, not the ordinary citizens. Mr Minister, in addition to a lockdown of the district concerned, I am therefore in favour of the military's efforts, as has happened in the past, in the wake of terrorist attacks. Only a shock effect can restore order and order in the streets of Antwerp-North.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u18	Minister, I stand here as a partner in the very difficult fight against violent crime, including in the drugs environment. Less than six months ago, the ambitious Power Plan was launched. The fact that we are standing here today at least means that all taboos have been broken. One can come here and say that the plan, which is a few months old, completely fails or one can push this story along with us. We can see that there is a big stir in a pot. Everyone knows that the initial stench is always the most persistent when removing the lid from the pot. I have the impression, by the way, when I read the press, that there have never been so many drugs intercepted as in the past few months. That does not mean that it is enough, on the contrary, but pretending there is some kind of magic wand with which one-two-three can solve the problem is, of course, bullshit. New structures are being set up. There's an 80-headed Kali team that's gonna kick that crime as well. I've never known the federal and local police to work together so constructively and intensively. Are there any challenges? Of course there are. That's pretty weedy. One appears to be the flow of information between the police and third parties. My first question is therefore, Minister. How can we optimise the flow of information between port services, customs, RVA and police, for example? There are indeed legislative obstacles on the way. Can you give us a brief state of affairs, a kind of micro-evaluation of the Power Plan, although it is only a few months old? Doing nothing would be much easier politically, but fortunately we, together with you, Minister, think very differently.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u19	Mr President, Minister, '000 bombs and grenades' said Captain Haddock in Tintin, but it is now also applicable to Antwerp. It's more like a messed-up drug than a messed-up drug. However, Minister, there are certainties. A month ago, you were the head of the squad, because you didn't want to cooperate in the fight against drugs. Today, others are the headline of jut. Today it's the yuppies and yogasnuivers. I personally also feel a bit addressed, when it comes to yoga, I do not sniff it. In 2013 the drug dealers were bullied away from Antwerp. This has been as successful as smoking out the PS in this Parliament. Zero tolerance and repression, these are the words of order, but we see that this simply does not work. 58 attacks in a three-year period, that's not normal anymore. I do not want to say that the repressive is not necessary, but what do we see? If controls are carried out today, the small drug users will be caught, while the big fish will stay out of sight. If the repressive hatch is necessary, it is certainly not the only one. We must break this spiral of violence in the short term, because the inhabitants are tired of it, but we must also look at the long term. That is where it is important to have prevention. Minister, how is cooperation between you and the federal services, on the one hand, and the municipal administration of Antwerp, on the other? Is the Flemish Community also involved in this cooperation in the context of prevention?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u20	Minister, Dewinter and Wouters said that over the last three years more than 60 violent incidents could be associated with drugs in and around Antwerp. It's about shootings, kidnappings, hand grenades and semi-automatic weapons and murder. Violence is inherent in the drug environment. In recent years, the port of Antwerp has unfortunately become the international hub of cocaine trafficking, partly because the Dutch drug gangs have moved their field of action. Crime knows no bounds. There is therefore a huge amount of money involved: for example, global profits from drugs exceed those from the global profits of the automotive and oil industries. In other words, there is an urgent need for an integrated approach which reduces the use of resources, but also the burden and crime. How are we gonna do that? There is already the Power Plan and there is also being used for thorough identity checks by the police, more camera surveillance and stricter controls in the port. My group is in favour of the following measures. The drugs environment needs to be better mapped out. One cannot fight something if one does not know exactly what it is like. We need a targeted search of the criminals. We also call for an administrative approach to organised crime. All smuggling methods need to be tackled and international cooperation urgently needs to be stepped up. In short, an integrated approach and a clear strategy for the fight against organised crime in Belgium. Minister, I have four specific questions for you. In what way will the port of Antwerp be better protected? Will you increase the controls there? What measures will be taken to finally reduce the nuisance and violence? How do we tackle the underlying structures of organised crime? How, after all, do we systematically restrict organised crime?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u21	Minister, every now and then Antwerp-North is shocked by explosions, shootings, arsons and threats. In just three weeks, it was the sixth attack. Since 2016 we count more than 60 acts of violence in Antwerp. This led to a lot of material damage, damage to cars and facades. Fortunately, the wounded and the dead were spared us. I'm holding my heart anyway. I can't think about what would happen if someone just happened to pass by the moment a grenade like that exploded. The neighborhood is scared, and she's tired of it, too. Families with kids are thinking about moving away from the neighborhood. It seems very much that all this is the result of an escalating drug war, a war which is apparently difficult to control. On the contrary, the war on drugs turns out to be a mess. However, safety is a basic right. That right is being undermined to the depths of its core in Antwerp-North. Minister, I am convinced that the services of Antwerp are doing everything in their power to control the situation more or less. However, Antwerp cannot handle it alone; cooperation is needed instead of pointing the finger at each other or playing the blackbird. In order to overcome these challenges, a Power Plan was approved six months ago, in September 2018. A Kali team was also established, a specialized team with federal and local police, inspectors, customs and prosecutors. We're working together to dismantle the crooked business models of these drug criminals. Minister, what is your view on this matter? There is no doubt that there is an increase in violence. Do you also feel the situation is escalating? How is cooperation between the federal government and the city going? The Kali team would start with 30 specialists and be expanded afterwards. How do you see this expansion? What thresholds do you still see? We are talking about issues such as the flow of information. How can they be dealt with? Can the federal police possibly strengthen the local police in the context of the neighborhood-oriented operation or possibly through the provision of equipment or through any other form of cooperation? How will you further monitor and evaluate the Power Plan and the Kali team? How do you see that?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u22	Even though there are a number of issues that have been mentioned here, such as substance for a discussion in the Antwerp city council or in the police council, I will try to answer the questions about the Power Plan itself and its implementation. I do not need to repeat that the purpose of the Power Plan is to minimise the import and transit of cocaine and to combat organised crime. The closely interwoven phenomena of money laundering and violent crimes are essential points in that plan. First of all, I would like to say that I have instructed the federal police to pay in full the amount pre-financed by Antwerp in the framework of the Stroomplan in the past. In other words, as always, we take up our share of responsibility. As with the unacceptable riots in Molenbeek, the federal government will also be part of the solution to the local problems. In any case, the federal government with the Home Office will honour the commitments made and, if there are any questions, we will respond to them. The purpose of the Streamplan is therefore to tackle the social undermining nature of the Antwerp drug clans. These clans play a very negative key role in the spread of drugs from the port infrastructure of Antwerp, for which not only the FPS Interior or city administration is competent, but also regional partners play their role, not to mention the private sector. As one of the components of the Power Plan, the Kali team was specifically employed. That team, which was founded in September 2018, represented the city of Antwerp, the local police, with the drug team of local detectives, and the federal judicial police. In addition, the customs of Antwerp and a liaison in the Netherlands are part of the Kali team. In concrete terms, it concerns the increase in control pressure and judicial investigations based on integrated imaging and focused information collection and, as a number of colleagues have said, identity checks and camera surveillance. You will understand, of course, that I cannot give further details about the specific research techniques in the public sitting. The attacks with grenades, such as recently in the Spoor Noord park and the Biekorfstraat, are the subject of a judicial investigation. As a member of the government, I cannot comment on this. Expertise, continuous exchange of information and experience from other and previous cases have taught us that those forms of visible violence are generally about this, it refers to an increase in the struggle between several clans, for example to take the place of dismantled clans or as a threat, internally in the circuit and to the outside world. In the meantime, the Mayor of Antwerp has announced additional measures and the police have already carried out additional inspections on the ground. The functioning of the Kali team will be evaluated in September of this year, exactly after one year of operation, but again, the Department of Home Affairs is making its agreed part of the efforts. As Secretary of State for Security and Home Affairs, I support the decisive approach that is indeed the Power Plan. The establishment of the Kali team is closely involved. I will also continue to work with the political authorities of the city of Antwerp. They are an essential partner in the fight against these forms of crime together with us. With the recent grenade attacks, of course, a border has been crossed very clearly, which neither I nor the authorities concerned will tolerate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u23	Mr Minister, the measures announced yesterday, including identity checks in the area concerned and camera surveillance, are three years late. Remember that the latest attack on the Biekorfstraat is the fifth attempt at three years. There's no cameras there. There was no increased surveillance. All this could have been done earlier. The fact that this war is now so clearly manifesting in the streets, in your opinion, points to the fact that the drug mafia is struggling, that they are in conflict with each other. You say it could be a deathfight. Hardly a week ago there was a drug dealer at VTM who explicitly declared himself anonymous: we laughed with the war on drugs, and did what they did in practice. Let us not forget that the trinity, arrogance and, above all, the violence of the drug mafia does not point to problems or weakness, but to the mentality of who affects us and we are the bosses on the streets. Especially that's the signal the drug mafia is sending today. Let us not misinterpret that. Striking back with the same means, only a hard approach works for those kinds of people. This means, indeed, a lockdown of the district concerned and the deployment of the army and by all means necessary to reduce the drug mafia and ensure that the government is in charge on the street, not the drug dealers, the drug criminals and the drug mafia.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u24	Minister, thank you very much for your determination to continue the struggle with us. We knew in advance that confrontation would become a real feat. I'd like to dot two more i's. First of all, what happened is terrible. Each attack is effective one too many. But in the past period, the crime rate in Antwerp has fallen by 30%. That too may be said. People may forget that once in a while. Secondly, I heard a colleague say that the big fish stay out of sight. That's exactly why the Power Plan was generated. Let's be clear about that, too. The judicial police and local police are working intensively together to catch exactly those big fish. Is this going to take a little longer and should we investigate it? No doubt. I repeat what I said earlier: doing nothing is very easy. Politically, doing nothing would be particularly easy but also cowardly. I am extremely pleased that we have the callers, Minister, and that we will continue the fight together. Nothing's impossible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. One thing is clear: don't pull the plug on the Power Plan. A coordinated approach is needed, along with measures of repression, including prevention. They both need to be discussed. Moreover, the drug circuit is created not only because there is a supply and we have to deal with the supply side, but also because there is demand for drugs. We therefore believe that prevention should be included in the whole package of measures. I would like to refer to the Dutch law Bibob. I believe that you can still find information on this, because that law ensures that drug money cannot be laundered through malicious companies. We need to see what happens on the other side of the border. Mr. De Crem, set the cart in motion. Perhaps you don't realize how much longer you could still be Minister of the Interior. Get on with it!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u26	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I hear good actions and I would also like to express my thanks for the efforts already made. Very explicitly, I would also like to thank the policemen on the street for the fight they are fighting every day against the drug war. I believe that a structural solution and a decisive approach are needed. What is happening today in the streets of Antwerp is clearly hallucinating. The situation is dangerous and the Antwerper does not feel safe at all anymore. I therefore hope that you will take our recommendations to heart.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u27	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and your sustained efforts. I would also like to thank you, as we expect you to do, for your part of the effort, both in people and in resources: you provide staff, but you will also pay back the part pre-financed by the city, as agreed. Actually, the Power Plan didn't come a second early. It has to be carried out now. Mr Dewinter, there is no room for fatalism here. Doing nothing or suggesting that actions do not do anything is not an option. We must continue to work on it. Shoulder to shoulder, together we have to tackle the drug dealers and roll up the networks. Minister, this requires cooperation and I think you can count on the city of Antwerp. I would like to thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u28	Mr President, Minister of the Interior, barely the trial of the anti-Semitic attack on the Jewish Museum of Belgium – perpetrated by a murderer claiming to be in Daesh – ended that we had to deplore another attack this time against the faithful of a mosque in New Zealand. Directed against the Muslim community in this country, he was accompanied by several echoes beyond the oceans and, in particular, at home. How did we get there? A particularly violent video has been broadcast on social networks – in a globalised world, it is sometimes to be regretted. She is violent because she shows the killer in action, shooting with an automatic weapon and killing the Muslim faithful gathered in this New Zealand mosque. The concern, evidently present among our fellow citizens of the Muslim faith, has continued to grow. It is all the more intense today as we are on the eve of a day of prayer. Through their institutions and representatives, they informed us of their fears and therefore called upon us. That's what leads me, Mr. Minister of the Interior, to question you. Indeed, some Brussels police areas have already considered it essential to inform the patrols of the need for more vigilance in the vicinity of the mosques. Mr President, Minister, I would like to quote very briefly from the remarks made by New Zealand's Prime Minister, Jacinda Ardern, to her fellow Muslim citizens: "The victims of this killing had decided to make New Zealand their homeland. They're us. The killer isn't." She adds: "My job is to guarantee your safety, your freedom to pray safely, your freedom to express your culture and religion." I have no doubt, Mr. Minister of the Interior, that these words will inspire you. So how do you expect to reassure our Muslim fellow citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u29	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it was right at the beginning of this sitting to point out the tragedy that took place last Friday in Christchurch. I believe that this horrible slaughter has caused a great deal of turmoil in the world. In our country, in our neighborhoods, in cities and especially in the Muslim community, it has caused a great deal of concern and creates a feeling of insecurity. This attack was followed very quickly by threats and horrible reports on social media which indicated that this example could best be followed and that mosques should also be burned down in our country. A little later, ISIS announced that a retribution was coming. You may agree with me, Minister, that there are a lot of worried, scared people asking for protection and security in society today. I was all the more surprised at the particularly rapid response of the OCAD, that same Friday, to indicate that there was no increased threat. From the local perspective, this was very peculiar. This was also followed very quickly by the announcement by Minister Geens that no additional measures or protection directives were needed. Minister, any radicalism and violent extremism must be taken seriously. The extreme right-wing extremism, which is now also known to be internationally organized and on the rise, also needs to be followed more closely. This brings me to two questions, Minister. On Friday, March 15th, there was communication. It is really unclear to me whether this happened within the framework of the National Security Council. Has it been agreed unanimously that there was no need for additional directives and that there was no desire to respond to the appeal of the Muslim community in our country to provide additional protection? I am convinced, Minister, that it is absolutely necessary for the local integrated security cells, which must follow local extremism and radicalism, to be given quite specific guidelines to monitor and follow up on this horrible extreme right radicalism, both preventive, administrative, police and, if necessary, judicial.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u30	Mr President, Mr Laaouej, Mr Bonte, first of all I would like to stress that, of course, I strongly condemn any form of extremism. I would also like to express my condolences to the victims of the violent attack in New Zealand, a country with which we have a very strong and deep connection, for historical reasons, which has to do with the First World War. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, following the events in Christchurch, the Coordinating Body for Threat Analysis (OCAM) immediately drafted a threat assessment. Mr Bonte, as early as 3 p.m. on 19 March, the Strategic Committee on Intelligence and Security was called together to analyse the situation in New Zealand and its possible impact on our country. The last update of the general threat assessment of 20 March 2019 also takes into account this component of the threat. As you know, the OCAD is an independent body carrying out its threat analyses. On this basis, measures are determined by the Government's crisis centre. At present, OCAM does not have any concrete indications to conclude that there is a threat of an attack of any kind against one of the more than 400 mosques or other institutions in our country. There's no indication that Brendon Tarrant wouldn't have acted alone or that there'd be any connection to our country. On this basis, OCAM maintains existing threat levels, including level 2 for the overall threat in the country. Security level 3 remains in force for certain institutions and public authorities. However, local authorities can themselves take additional measures to secure the so-called soft targets on their own territory, as clearly demonstrated by the opinion of the OCAD. I believe, however, that we will have the opportunity to discuss this with you in Vilvoorde shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u31	Mr President, Minister of the Interior, I take note of the information you have just given us. However, I ask you to take into account the growing and real concern of many of our fellow Muslims on the eve of Friday, the day of prayer in mosques. I ask you to do so because, without causing panic ourselves, it is necessary, in a proportionate and appropriate manner, to ensure that there can be an effort, in the context of a dialogue which you could conduct, to pedagogy, to explain, to inform and to maintain vigilance which makes it possible to properly identify those who, in Belgium today, according to a report by the State Security Agency, consider that there is a need to be able to make threats with impunity. Fortunately, these are not implemented, but the State Security believes that they pose a real threat to the security of a large part of our citizens. Let us be clear: barbarism and fanaticism leave no respite to our democracies. We must be strong, responsible, vigilant and reassuring towards our fellow citizens, regardless of their religious or philosophical convictions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u32	Mr President, Minister, in recent years we have been sorry to learn what the role of the OCAD and the Security Council is. If the OCAD does not have any elements to review the threat level, it can only be taken into account. However, I also know that the OCAD is much less well informed, organised and invested in research into extreme right-wing radicalism, including at international level. This concerns the OCAD. I understand that the National Security Council did not carry out its analysis until the day before yesterday, on 19 March, and I regret that. Then Minister None's communication would indeed have been much faster. Minister, we must ensure that a very worried population in our cities and communities does not feel that we are working with double standards and two weights. After all, we all have a duty, including at the local level, to ensure peace and security where there is anxiety and fear. I would also like to make the appeal, even in a period of virtual government or suspended parliament, that there is no effective laxism, but that a little bit more is being done to take that threat seriously at local level. As far as I am concerned, support is needed for this at the local level, with clear guidelines for the LIVCs, in order to curb extremism. There's work on the shelf in the short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u33	Mr President, Mr Minister, civil protection has really been undermined by your predecessor and I have repeatedly denounced this reform in Parliament since it was announced. For me, the removal of four barracks dramatically reduces the level of protection of a large part of the country's population in the event of natural disasters, nuclear incidents, chemical disasters or new terrorist attacks. In addition, civil protection personnel have undergone this reform in full. Some officers have seen their workplace move by almost 100 kilometres and others still have uncertainties about their future status. In addition, this morning it is reported that you would have refused any schedule adjustments proposed by the staff, which would save money, improve training and reduce travel. In this context, Minister, it can be understood that civil protection workers are sick of it. We can understand that they decided today to go on strike. My question is therefore very simple: when will you finally re-establish a social dialogue with civil protection officers?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u34	Mr President, Mr Thiébaut, the civil protection reform that began on 1 January 2019 resulted in a plan that was implemented by my predecessor, Minister Jambon, and which was approved by the Council of Ministers on 28 July 2017. As you know, this reform aims to increase the number of barracks from 6 to 2. As for the two remaining centres of expertise in Crisnée and Brasschaat, they will continue to carry out specialized tasks, such as the Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear Defense CBRN, Search & Rescue, Heavy Technical Deployment and Information & Communication Management, as well as longer-term deployment if necessary. Their missions are in this context and are complementary to those of front-line services, such as fire services. All former civil protection staff were invited to participate in a selection to be incorporated into the new civil protection in 2019. An individualized reorientation route was offered to those who did not wish to participate in the selection or who did not succeed. They have been offered functions within and outside the Internal FPS. The new administrative and financial status affecting members of civil protection, aligned with that of firefighters, has resulted in an increase in salary through an operational bonus of 18 to 38% and has been part of several reform measures such as, inter alia, the modification of the working regime adapted to the real needs of interventions. On 22 January, I met with the unions and became aware of a number of concerns. I then asked the administration to work with the unions to find solutions. More recently, four proposals were submitted to union representatives to improve the functioning of the organization and, above all, the well-being of staff. I understand that some of the staff consider these proposals to be insufficient and will now discuss with the various officials whether it is possible to do more work on them. For my part, I stress that they are substantial and balanced. In any event, it is essential to maintain a balance between rights and tasks and tasks. All this must be part of a reformed civil protection. My first concern was, is and will remain to ensure the optimal operationality of civil protection while preserving the well-being of staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u35	Mr Minister, on paper it seems to be working, but on the ground it is quite the opposite. I can tell you that at the time of the official closure of the barracks, in January, there were still officers who did not know at all where they had to go to work. So there's still a lot of work to do. I believe that you should also very quickly consider an initial assessment of this reform and see on the ground all the shortcomings that it will cause, in particular the overloads of work for the relief areas. I myself am president of a rescue zone and can testify to that with the returns I have from the ground. You have had contacts with the workers' representatives, but obviously these contacts must be multiplied because they are not sufficient. Today, I can tell you that dissatisfaction in staff is very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u36	Mr. Chair, Minister, this Tuesday I was asking you about the issue of ongoing police training following the release of a report by Committee P that raised a number of questions on this subject. A few weeks ago, it was the Standing Commission of the Local Police (CPPL) that published its Memorandum 2019-2023 – the order of march of local police officers – and which makes some interesting observations on the basic training of police officers: "Basic training, despite the various reforms to improve its concept and content, remains insufficient in terms of the quality of the candidates completing their course, in terms of quantity as well. The final result therefore does not correspond to the expectations of the police areas." Clearly, Minister, the level of knowledge of candidates leaving the academies is considered to be low, often approximate and superficial. This would result, inter alia, in errors in the drafting of the minutes, which is serious for police officers or in unlawful arrests of certain persons. In the police-citizen relationship, it appears that it is the capacity of empathy and the position of the victim so important in Community policing that are also impacted. To be complete, however, I would like to point out that the officials of the police academies who were interviewed by the press following the publication of the report have been more nuanced, expressing their astonishment and now that this is a demanding training but some aspects of which could be reviewed. Nor should we lose sight of the fact that there are a large number of failures at the entrance of police academies for all candidates and that it is therefore seriously treated. In any event, the CPPL does not only make recommendations. She made concrete suggestions to improve that situation. Minister, what is your analysis of the situation? Do you share the findings of the CPPL? If so, are you considering initiatives to improve this training situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have already had the opportunity to discuss these issues this week in committee. I saw, like you, an article in Sud Presse about the discussion between the Standing Committee on Local Police and the various police academies. Our police aspirants wouldn't be well trained enough. The academies of Liège, Jurbise and Namur find this criticism unjustified. I was also present a month ago at the presentation of the CPPL Memorandum in Namur. On that occasion, I took note of the recommendations, as well as the points of attention and improvement made by the local police and the suggestions for the drafting of a future government agreement. The Memorandum also contained remarks on the training of police officers. Police schools always try to develop their training according to general and special needs and needs. Police education is one of the topics dealt with by a project group composed of representatives of my firm, local police, CPPL and police schools. Again this morning, this project group met to discuss training challenges. I would add that the CPPL's recommendations were immediately addressed, precisely as a result of the exchange of views held in committee. The basic training courses will therefore be reviewed and possibly extended with the aim of optimising them and making them acceptable to the Communities. This is the case, for the time being, with the basic training of inspectors. I will try to move the matter forward as far as possible in this day-to-day business. I remain convinced, like you, that good training, adapted to the needs and dynamics of the field, is the basis of any modern police service ready to serve the interests of our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u38	Minister, thank you for your answer. I hear that this is and remains a priority. This is very good, especially since, according to the Memorandum, one of the consequences of the criticisms formulated is that the policeman himself becomes less sure of the act he poses. It is no longer just about the protection of the citizen; it is also about the protection of the policeman himself. It is therefore necessary to have optimal and harmonised training in our country, in favour of the functioning of a not easy profession.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u39	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the problem of migrants is of course not new. It has been up to date for several years and has been getting worse and worse in recent years. This is confirmed in the figures: in 2018, 7 000 transmigrants were arrested in my province, which is a doubling compared to the figures for 2015. There are also the problems surrounding the Maximilian Park; we see the problems surrounding the North Station; we see problems arising from the presence of transmigrants in the highway parkings; there is the situation in Zeebrugge and today the Bruges Court has condemned a number of criminal transmigrants for facts in the vicinity of Blankenberge. Transmigrants are not seeking asylum and are not threatened by their beliefs, beliefs or sex; they enter Belgium for economic reasons as a tourist to get to the economic halla of the United Kingdom as soon as possible. Your predecessor, along with the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, has been confronted with the problem several times. After all, it is a question of shared competence. At that time, conflicts were regularly identified and solutions sought. There was a very close search. Following recent problems in October 2018, an additional nine-point plan has been put in place to address a number of issues and follow them closer. This would lead to more police surveillance near the highways. Better agreements would be agreed on the evacuation of the Maximilian Park and Zeebrugge would be better secured. It is also very important that there should be better cooperation with the United Kingdom. Last week mayors from various political parties pointed out that the problem is still very topical, that it is not being properly resolved and that not much is actually happening. What progress has been made on implementing the nine-point plan, Minister? What have you done to address the problem of migrants? What is the status of the talks with the United Kingdom at the moment?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u40	Mr Vermeulen, the problem of transmigration, of which everyone knows what it means, and you have also referred to the qualification of a transmigrant.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The number of transmigrants arrested has increased significantly in 2018, also among my predecessor. For example, 7 020 transmigrants were intercepted in the province of West Flanders alone. This rising trend continues in the first two months of 2019. For all these reasons, shortly after the government recast, I carried out several work visits, including at the port of Zeebrugge, together with the structural task force for Transmigration, including Governor Decaluwé, the mayors concerned and the police chiefs. A wide range of measures and security methods for the port itself, highway parkings and other possible attraction poles were discussed and refined. I also took the decision to implement part of the nine-point programme that had not yet been implemented, namely to strengthen support in men, which are particularly important. By the end of this month, ten days at the latest, 20 policemen will join us in West Flanders. By the way, on the eve of this meeting, I will personally welcome a first meeting with the police forces and the mayors and the first ten reinforcements to the intervention corps. There are also targeted actions on a very frequent basis, with the federal and local police working closely together. In addition, the situation in the other parts of the country is closely monitored, with a special attention to the provinces of Antwerp and East Flanders in addition to the province of West Flanders due to the presence of ports and motorways and the resulting transit and freight traffic. At the beginning of last week I contacted the Mayor of Mol, Mr Caeyers, and the Mayor of Wommelgem, Mr Gys, with whom I will have a personal interview very soon. You cited the problem of the Brexit. It will involuntarily focus on transmigration. Transmigrants want to hit the Brexit in the UK and once the Brexit is done, the longer queues of lorries at the border can cause additional nuisance. Of course, this point also applies to highway parking, which is particularly important in my policy. That is why, specifically in the context of the Brexit, I have asked for and received reinforcements at the Council of Ministers. These are therefore additional staff for the federal police and a Belgian liaison officer in the United Kingdom with a view to ensuring the continuity of the exchange of information. I follow the problem very closely with almost daily consultation with all the parties involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u41	Thank you for your answer, Minister, especially because you have put a great emphasis on the activities being carried out for West Flanders. Fortunately, you have also said that measures are being taken in other parts of the country. It is mainly about Flanders, because the problem is much less felt in the French-speaking part of the country. The problem of migration is not easy. No one has ever said otherwise, neither have I, but by doing little or nothing, nothing will improve. Just improvement is needed. We need a stronger and firmer approach. Transmigrenders are illegal here, causing damage to public infrastructure, our economy and property of people and businesses. A firmer approach will therefore certainly be needed, not only of the smugglers of human beings, which, of course, must be given much attention, but also of the transmigrants, who themselves cause problems. I just found it very regrettable that the mayor of Bruges has given a very different signal and wants to deal much looser with transmigrants.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u42	Mr. Maingain is apologised.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u43	Minister, I was particularly surprised to hear you talk two days ago about the necessary refinancing of justice. I wondered if what I heard was the truth. It would interest me to know what path you were on the day you had this revelation! For five years, you took over this department to find out that you didn't have the means of your policy! Can we still believe you? I'd tend to hope so. Like all the actors in the justice system, we believe that we will be able to move forward! The problem is that you said it will be for the next legislature. I challenge you to start right away! Next week, we will be discussing the provisional appropriations again. Would we not take advantage of this to start this radical reform and to increase the resources made available to you today? I am sure that political groups in this House would follow us in this request. That being said, according to your calculations, of the 740 million you are proposing, there are 300 million for the judicial order. What is it? The judicial, prosecutorial and registry staff as they currently exist are 100 per cent full? As far as computerisation is concerned, what are you planning to ensure that it is finally complete and harmonious? Is the increase in legal aid ceilings affected by your request for additional funding? What about prisons? Are we going to invest again in large structures or, finally, in more humane formulas? You have spoken on several occasions about the inmate's accompaniment, the execution of sentences, a reflection on the meaning of confinement. One might think that the increase in your budget could be used to pay the periodic penalty payments that the bar associations have just obtained against the Belgian State to supplement prison overcrowding and avoid it in the future. In short, minister, what legacy are you going to leave tomorrow to yourself or your successor?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u44	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Brotcorne, first of all, I found that your party fully agreed with the amount I proposed on the RTBF issue Last Wednesday, in your opinion. So we're on the same wavelength, which is not bad already. I'm not going to insist on polemics, or on the fact that you believe me or not. These are style formulas, and there is no need to insist on them; the content is more important. I believe that the 300 million for the judiciary should be used, to the tune of 130 million, to make self-management possible, to give the necessary support to the judiciary and to make possible the distribution of resources according to workloads. You know that I have reached an agreement with headquarters on this self-management, but unfortunately this agreement could not be transposed into the bill because of the fall of the government. Then there would be 35 million more for computer science. After all, and despite all the criticisms, the Mach system, which is used by 90% of the criminal chain for the time being, is working quite well. It must certainly be improved in the coming legislature. In addition, there would be 120 million to increase the pro deo ceilings. The remaining 200 million are said to be for safety and, above all, for the prison system, which suffers from a lack of staff, not specifically at the level of prison officers, but at the level of psychologists, social workers, etc. The buildings are the domain of the Régie, which I am responsible for, as they say, using a somewhat masochistic term. As far as the Régie is concerned, I would propose, only for Justice buildings, which mainly generate rents to be paid in DBFM projects (Design, Build, Finance & Maintain), an increase in the budget for prisons, courthouses and their renovation, to the tune of 240 million. For now, we are living in situations that are not worthy of the men who must work there, stay there or be accommodated there.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u45	Minister, thank you for the clarifications on the breakdown of this financial manna. We will be at your side – if we have the opportunity – to discuss it beyond May. Many public services are in arrears, but the justice system is. It is vital that we pay attention to it and re-finance it because it protects our rule of law and our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u46	Mr President, Minister, we have commemorated in Parliament and will commemorate tomorrow in Zaventem and Maelbeek the third anniversary of these terrorist attacks. We remember the horror, the blind savagery and the suffering of the hundreds of victims crushed in their bodies, in their hearts. We know that, since then, our society has changed. Although it has been remarkably resilient, it has also adapted to this threat. We sought to understand why we could not better protect our people. We have seen this disarticulated state, that our intelligence and police services are inadequately equipped, that they speak insufficiently and that our legislative framework is inadequate. And we also sought to support the victims. They felt abandoned and alone in the face of bureaucracy, this disarticulated state and insurers. In the meantime, we've been working. We have this status of national solidarity, these compensations which are improved, both for health care, for legal costs, for travel expenses. But much remains to be done. Very important progress remains to be made, particularly on aspects on which victims were very attentive: there is still no real one-stop shop, since the federal window is not linked with those of federated entities; the principle of subrogation, which would give the State the capacity to act first and then to turn to insurance, still does not exist; there is still no accreditation or financial support for associations. The latter call for special attention to be paid to victims of polytrauma, including Karen Northshield, for compensation to be equal to that granted to victims of war, to our soldiers who are victims of serious injuries, and for special attention to be paid to minors. Minister, since you are not responsible for all these aspects, I would like to hear from you about what the government intends to do before the end of the legislature. What progress can be expected in these areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u47	Mr Dallemagne, thank you for your question about support for victims of terrorism. It is true that, in a way, faced with this serious misfortune, we have encountered problems of duality: between the victims' fund, which falls under the Ministry of Justice, and the insurers, on the one hand, and, on the other, at the level of the single window, between the Federal State and the Communities, on the other. This led to long-term inter-federal consultation. With regard to the status of national solidarity, designed by my colleague De Block, which allows for reimbursement of medical expenses and a compensation pension, I understand that the government has, for the time being, fulfilled its obligations. As far as the insurance mechanism is concerned, it seems to me that my colleague Kris Peeters still wants to submit his proposal for a law to the committee of the relevant Parliament. As far as I am concerned, I promised at the time of the amendment of the Law on the Commission for Financial Assistance to Victims that I would amend the Royal Decree to approve the associations of victims. This draft royal decree is currently before the Council of State. In addition, a royal decree will soon be published. It aims to organise a mediation procedure within the framework of the national solidarity statute. Finally, we will continue to work at the inter-federal level to create a one-stop shop to help victims in the very complex situation in our country. We continue to move forward and despite the concerns and resentments of victims, whom I understand and share, in terms of medical assistance, I believe that our country has shown remarkable quality and resilience.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u48	Mr. Minister of Justice, thank you for your answer. I see the efforts you are making. I am not saying that they are not without results, but we must be right: in my opinion, Belgium has reacted too late to respond to the sense of abandonment felt by the victims. We have singularly lacked empathy for their suffering. The latter will continue in the years to come. I therefore ask you, Minister, to continue to achieve results in these crucial areas and, in particular, in this support so much requested by the victims. You know that they still face serious injuries, heavy bureaucracy and a state they have difficulty understanding, insurers who send them from door to door,... We need to stay there in the weeks and years to come. They need us. They were beaten on behalf of the State because they were Belgian citizens or resided in Belgium. I believe that they have the right to our solidarity and to our concrete support every day in the weeks and years to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u49	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, 21 March is a symbolic date for people with Down syndrome 21. In fact, 21 March is the world day of trisomy 21 awareness because this date refers to the fact that there are three 21 chromosomes for these people. On 21 March, people with Down syndrome, but also people working around them, their families, participate in public awareness activities, which aim to defend the rights to inclusion and well-being of people with Down syndrome 21. To symbolize this day, they wear loose socks. Mr. President, I wanted to show you my socks. For the occasion, today I put on two loose socks to symbolize this day. I know that other colleagues have also done this, and I congratulate them! Madam Minister, at every level of power, we must bring the voices of these people, whether in our communes, at the level of the Regions or Communities, in education or in the workplace. At our level, from a federal perspective, I think we can also act. I have identified four areas in which we could be active. First, at the hospital level, multi-disciplinary consultations must be supported. They exist, but they need to be strengthened and gone further. Secondly, as far as health professionals are concerned, they must be made aware of listening. Sometimes there is still too little empathy or listening to the families concerned. Tertio, at the research level, great progress is being made. It is important to integrate the latest results of scientific research, particularly in cognitive treatment. Quarto, there is the accessibility of monodisciplinary logopedic services to people with an IQ of less than 86. This bill will be on Parliament's table this Tuesday in committee. Minister, what is your position on this bill and on the more comprehensive aspects that I have described before? Minister, Tuesday would be an opportunity to make a great step forward in the fight in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u50	Mr President, Mr Clarinval, I would like first of all to welcome the fact that, here in Parliament, special attention is also being paid to World Trisomy Awareness Day 21. Your socks show it! Like everyone else, these people are entitled to the best health care, both hospital and ambulatory, adapted to their specific needs. A child with a recognised disability of at least 66%, as in the case of the Down syndrome, is automatically entitled to the increased intervention. Thanks to this, care is cheaper. They also benefit from a more favourable scheme under the maximum charge (MAF) for children. People with three chromosomes 21 are more likely to face health problems that require multidisciplinary treatment. In addition, there is often a need for physiotherapy and multidisciplinary revalidation. Since the sixth reform of the State, this multidisciplinary revalidation has been transferred to the federated entities. Yes, there are still problems, such as waiting lists and a lack of centres, but I think that the federated entities must tackle them. With regard to monodisciplinary logopedia, it is true that the intellectual quotient limit is set at 66 for all patients. I am examining how we can manage the grey area around this limit so that we can provide the most appropriate care for each child. Discussions are ongoing within the Public Health FPS. In addition, I would like to inform you that compulsory insurance also supports initiatives which are not strictly within the scope of its prerogatives, namely support for the Special Olympics. I see that people with trisomy 21 dare to express themselves more and to make themselves heard. They can now reach positions that once seemed out of reach, for example in the media. This is a very good thing and we do not need this special day to be aware that it is an important group that deserves the most appropriate care.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u51	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. The families concerned seek to be able to offer as much autonomy as possible to their children, through early stimulations. It's their fight. I hear you are in favour of progress in terms of logopedia, and you are grateful. In the days ahead, we will be able to make progress in this fight. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u52	Mr President, Minister, I would like to present to you a case of a woman who has been working in a chic boutique for 30 years. Thirty years ago, she started out as a hip saleswoman, but now, thirty years later, she's a little less hip and slim. The employers actually want her gone, because it no longer fits in with the context. Often we see bullying in such situations, resulting in burn-out or depression and finally long-term in the hospital. The woman gets fired for long-term illness. It can no longer be employed, it does not receive a paid notice, despite 30 years of service. Madam Secretary, you could say that I am referring to just one case. That's right, but I think there are many similar cases of practice. However, we are not aware of this because there is no figures. All we know is that there are about ten thousand disabled people every six months. That number is growing to half a million. In 2016 you made two royal decisions to ensure that sick people and long-term sick people could be integrated back into the labour market. I think that is an honorable objective in itself. However, this must be properly organised. The policy must also be able to be evaluated. Yesterday I questioned you about this, but there are no figures available. We are therefore blind sailing, which means that we cannot be adjusted. You say that the insurance institutions do not cooperate and block everything, but the insurance institutions say that they have been given the software far too late and that it is not working properly. The National Labour Council, which includes employers and trade unions, has delivered a unanimous opinion. If employers and trade unions give a unanimous opinion, that means something. The National Labour Council also made recommendations to better organise this. In June 2018, I submitted a bill myself, but I have the impression that you do not use it very much. Finally, a cheap firing machine will be created, which will hurt people very much. People have given the best of themselves for 30 years or more for their boss and their job, but they get pushed away cheaply. Madam Secretary, how do you explain the increase in disability rates by ten thousand per six months? With what measures do you hope to be able to adjust this somewhat? How will you involve the recommendations of the National Labour Council in your adjustment, before the end of the current legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u53	Mrs De Coninck, yesterday we had part of this discussion in the Committee on Social Affairs. Maybe you're taking the case of someone who's worked in a boutique for 30 years because it's your birthday today? Congratulations! In this legislature, we have worked hard to reform the policy on long-term sick people. The category of long-term sick has not just been invented, their number has been increasing for ten years, by 8 % to 10 % per year. So don't act like that group is suddenly being invented today. There are several explanations for this. You gave the example of someone who is no longer considered fit to work in a boutique. I can mention a number of other cases. The number of long-term sick is growing less rapidly than in previous years. While an increase from 8 % to 10 % per year was recorded at the time, it now stands between 4 % and 5 %. Why is that? Since we introduced reintegration, we have noticed a number of effects. We see a marked increase in the number of authorisations for partial re-employment during the period of illness. In 2014, this was the case for around 30 000 people, already in 2017 for 55 000 people. The number of retraining routes is also clear in the lift. Between 2014 and 2017, that number doubled. That's it? That's it? No, of course not. Since 2016 there has been a decrease in the number of cases of disability, and this decline continues this year. There are indeed a number of issues that need to be addressed. But the measures we have taken are structural and will have to change attitudes. One must realize that people who are old are not out. Prevention also needs to be stepped up. So do we. On prevention against burn-out, for example, we have launched a number of slopes. After all, one in three long-term sick workers suffer from a burn-out. As far as the mutualities are concerned, they do indeed have to keep track of figures. I told you yesterday. They do say that they are not done with ICT, etc., but measuring is knowing. I was right yesterday, in the sense that one should be able to measure and control. I therefore call once again on the sickness funds to make this work as a matter of priority. As regards the NAR recommendation, that is a shared competence with Minister Peeters. We shall continue with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u54	Madam Secretary, I'm still a little hungry. We are not going to continue the discussion here, but the figures on disability continue to rise. The ageing of the population is an element of this. Things like career break, runways, SWT and part-time work for older workers certainly need to be reviewed. In particular, much more workable work needs to be done. When I was 20 years old and I was still in college, I started cleaning 20 hours a week. So I started my career as a cleaning lady to pay for my studies. At that time I had no problem with that, but if I had to do it today, with the osteoarthritis I have now, I would not be able to do it full-time, even if I wanted to work full-time. Such cases, of which there are quite a few, really need to be dealt with in a different way.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u55	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Member States of the European Union have been mobilizing in recent days to boost the Union's climate ambitions at the European Council that is opening today. Our neighbours, France, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, as well as Spain and Portugal, want to include in the conclusions an ambitious objective: carbon neutrality in 2050 and the need for the European Union to be in line with the Paris targets by remaining below the 1.5°C threshold. Apparently, they won't make it because they lack arms. What do we learn? Belgium has not joined this ambitious group of countries. In this case, however, there is no need to amend the Constitution. So what is the excuse? [[People are sick of it.]] They want action and ambition. They tell you on the street every week. Even today, in Liège, Saint-Georges, Wavre, Antwerp, thousands of young people told you. They're not gonna let you go. Madam Minister, can you confirm to me that our Prime Minister is in the process of defending this downward position on behalf of all of us today at the European Council?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the contrary, I confirm that the Prime Minister does indeed support more ambitious European climate targets, in accordance with Parliament's resolution last December. It clearly calls for a European target of 55% in 2030 and 95% in 2050. We have recently passed the National Energy-Climate Plan to the Concerted Committee and we have asked all stakeholders, including regional stakeholders, to raise the ambition in this area. The Prime Minister has already told you that he is in favour of a European Green Deal. He spoke to his counterpart heads of state, Macron and Merkel. He was meeting Mr. Tusk this morning. We also support the establishment of an ambitious long-term strategy as provided for in the European regulation on governance of the Energy Union and climate action. All of this you will find out very officially when this European summit, which is taking place right now, is over. I assume you took your information from the press. That is the answer that has been prepared for me to answer your question to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u57	Madam Minister, thank you, but in fact you did not answer my question. I asked you if the Prime Minister had joined this ambitious group of countries. I guess not. Once again, you are caught in flagrante delicto of incoherence! Yes, it is! You just turned around the pot again!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u58	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u59	Madam Minister, Mrs Schlitz has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u60	You still have a chance to catch up by amending Article 7bis of the Constitution and voting the climate law!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u61	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u62	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Calomne and Mr Laaouej referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u63	Mr President, this is a technical project that enables the State to continue its activities. It is therefore a perfectly responsible project that ensures all the necessary payments and those that would be made by regulations or legal obligations. Moreover – and this is not technical – this project allows the government to do what it had announced, that is to say to make the welfare envelope 100% usable. Of course, the wellness envelope was in the 2019 budget, which was not voted on. It was therefore essential to find a solution and the Minister of Budget and her staff, in partnership with the Court of Auditors, found the solution that would allow the welfare envelope to deploy. This amounts to €358 million divided between salaried workers (277 million), self-employed workers (41 million) and social workers (40 million). It was therefore very important that this well-being envelope should be put into action. It will be done on time. Our group will obviously support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u64	Mr President, our group supports this draft provisional appropriations. It is good that we do so in good time. This ensures the continuity of the State for four months. As Mr Piedboeuf said, we insisted that the first provisional appropriations in December should be put at the disposal of the welfare envelope of EUR 360 million. This was promised in the social dialogue, which is now being made possible. The law on provisional loans creates the space to grant the welfare envelope. In this way, the commitments entered into with regard to persons with low benefits can be realised. We shall therefore support the draft provisional appropriations. We should not be enthusiastic about it, it is an emergency law for four months, but it has enabled the government and Parliament to keep their word on the social partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u65	Our group, although in no way responsible for the situation of the resigning government and although sitting, until 26 May, in the opposition, decided to support the vote on the provisional twelfths.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u66	Are we going to sit so far?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u67	Indeed, we are concerned about the continuity of the state and the service to be rendered to citizens. However, our opinion does not change on the initial 2018 budget, which we strongly criticized and which serves as the basis for these provisional twelfths. These second, or perhaps second, provisional twelfths, which are voted on today, contain, as the minister and the government had committed themselves to doing, the authorizations to implement the agreement reached between the social partners with regard to the raising of the lowest social benefits, as provided for in the law. I would like to thank the government and the minister for that, even if it is the least that can be done to enforce a law. I would like to ask again the minister who was technically unable to answer me when I asked her the question in committee. What are the steps and commitments of the government on the allocation of these envelopes? Doing your job as Minister of the Budget and providing the necessary envelopes for the well-being liaison is one thing. Another thing is to provide for the legislative acts or decrees necessary for these means to be affected, in the particular context of this end of the legislature. At the government level, has this discussion taken place? Can the minister give us any guidance on the timing of this decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u68	Mr President, Monsieur Gilkinet, you vous remercie pour vos remerciements. Unfortunately, I can only answer what I said last time. We must first wait for the validation of the IPA proposal (interprofessional agreement). As long as the points are not validated by the various partners, I think it is premature to consider the next step. I think of our discussions in the first discussion on the provisional twelfths. Some wondered about the supposed will of one or another not only to see the well-being envelope entered, but also to see it executed. I confirm to you that the will is full and complete. Depending on the returns of the different partners, each minister, in his or her respective powers, will take the necessary action where necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u69	Mr President, Madam Minister, I thank you once again for your thanks and thanks. I take note of your answer. It is true that we await the final position of the social partners, in any case on their basis, on this agreement which has been reached on raising minimum social benefits. I wish and hope that the agreement can be fully implemented both in this and in the other areas. We had a debate last week with the Prime Minister on the pension side. It seems that I had to understand from his reply that the minister and the government would stick to the agreement of the social partners, which is our wish in this regard. I can confirm to you that the Ecolo-Groen Group will be attentive until the final decision is taken that this agreement be correctly implemented by the minority government in day-to-day affairs, and if necessary, by Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u70	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u71	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3587/3+1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3587/3+1) The draft law has 13 articles. The bill has 13 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u72	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u73	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mr Demon and Mr Thiébaut, refer to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u74	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3340/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3340/4) The draft law has 96 articles. The bill has 96 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u75	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u76	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Thiébaut, referred to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u77	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3336/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3336/04) The draft law has 6 articles. The bill has six articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u78	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u79	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mrs Grovonius, referred to her written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u80	Mr President, 30 years ago, when I came to the Chamber as a young Member of Parliament, at the end of the legislative term there was a very nice gesture from my fellow Members towards a colleague who was going to say goodbye to politics. In fact, often through a compromise, it was tried to get a bill or bill for which the colleague had worked in the past. I would like to thank the Government, and in particular the Foreign Minister, for it is an incredible coincidence that today this draft law approving the multilateral agreement is before the vote. After all, I had the privilege and the pleasure of discussing very often with him when this Minister of Foreign Affairs became Minister of Finance in 1999 the disastrous role of tax havens in my view and the need in Belgium for other models of double taxation conventions, as was the official name. I have often crossed swords with this minister between 1999 and 2011, because we had different opinions in that regard. Our then Finance Minister thought that he should try to turn Brussels into a financial centre by approving a network of double taxation conventions, and usually through a model that allowed a handy person to hollow out the tax base or shift it with profits. I have to admit that many of those discussions and debates ended in votes which I have unfortunately lost very often. In about ninety-nine percent of the times I tried, I didn't get the necessary support. I also received no support, for example, from Mr Van Biesen, who was very often in line with the Minister. I remember the following when this Minister became responsible for Foreign Affairs. Our Rules of Procedure are peculiar, in the sense that these kind of treaties, which I think belong more to the Finance Committee, continue to come to the Committee on External Relations. I remember having held a hearing at the beginning of the present legislature, in which we debated with a number of experts and a number of Members. I had a resolution, as there are many resolutions in Parliament. There was one point in that resolution that I would like to highlight today, namely an appeal to Belgium to work towards a multilateral treaty which would have the advantage that the 70 or 80 treaties we have in place would disappear in one blow to avoid double taxation. Those treaties, as I indicated, were very dangerous, because they allowed the tax erosion of the base. In particular, they allowed large companies to shift their profits, so they did not have to pay taxes. That resolution was not adopted in the Foreign Affairs Committee by the current majority in a glorious vote. So great was my pleasure, when I saw three weeks ago that this draft multilateral treaty was suddenly realized for which I had fought for twenty years. I repeat that I thank the Foreign Minister and former Finance Minister for that. I would also like to thank the current Minister for Finance and the previous Minister for Finance, Johan Van Overtveldt, and everyone who was in that post before him. Thanks to them, we are about to take a very important step towards fairer international taxation. But it's not over yet. After all, I am sure that, supported by very expensive lawyers and other consultancy firms, some are already looking for other ways of not having to pay taxes. Nevertheless, I am very pleased that, at the end of my political career in sight, this draft will still be approved. Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u81	That is a thank you, Minister, and a reply can be given, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u82	Mr President, it is not a real reply. I just want to say that I am pleased to see a very broad support for the convention. Mr van der Maelen, after so many years in various committees, I think it is sometimes better to follow the long road to finding a good solution. We now have a good solution. After so many years, today is a very important moment for the plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u83	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? ) The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u84	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3510/1) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3510/1) The draft law has 4 articles. The bill has four articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u85	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u86	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Anne Dedry, Jean-Marc Nollet, Kristof Calvo, Marcel Cheron, Georges Gilkinet, Stefaan Van Hecke, Evita Willaert, Gilles Vanden Burre, Sarah Schlitz, Véronique Waterschoot.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u87	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1367/7) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1367/7) The meeting's open. The discussion is open. Mr Vercammen and Mr Janssens and Mrs Muylle, rapporteurs, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u88	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this motion for a resolution has come a very long way. We submitted the proposal in October 2015. We discussed it five times and, in between, we amended it just as often in committee to finally land on 26 February last. The breakthrough has been achieved thanks to an excellent information report from the Senate. This was adopted on 23 March 2018. You all know that our group is a cool lover of the Senate. However, credit is due, because steps were taken forward at the initiative of Mr Thiéry of the MR. He tabled an amendment, in line with the new insights from the Senate's information report. This information report has a very strong support. It has also put the Länder to work, with CD&V in the lead in the Flemish Parliament. In the meantime, this has even been included in the prevention decree. Following the general amendment of the MR, we as a group decided to work on this further. As you know, we are always very constructively opposed. We have tabled a number of sub-amendments in order to clarify the spirit and the letter of the information report even more clearly in this resolution. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for approving all these sub-amendments. As a result, the precautionary principle and the cocktail effect of hormone disrupters and, in particular, the attention given to vulnerable groups such as prematures, pregnant women, children and adolescents, in addition to the alternative solutions, are further specified in this resolution. In the end, we adopted this motion for a resolution unanimously, with the exception of two abstentions from the N-VA. However, this had nothing to do with the content, but rather with the fact that the N-VA does not want to adopt resolutions during a period of current cases. I therefore allow myself to say that we have adopted this motion for a resolution unanimously. I finish with a personal note, which is usually not the custom on this chair. I've been knocking on the hormone disrupters' nail for several years. As is often the case, last summer the hormone disrupters also struck in my private life, when my daughter had to undergo a very heavy surgery for endomatiosis, resulting in fertility problems. The doctors then clearly identified the hormone disrupters as the cause. My daughter's gonna be fine by now, and I'm gonna be a grandmother soon, so it all turned out okay. So I cannot stress enough that we must not dismiss the resolution before us as 'just a resolution', which will be neatly forgotten after this legislative period. I can only hope that, in the next legislature, serious legislative work will be carried out. After all, I now know from my personal experience how important the theme is.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u89	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mrs Dedry for her speech, which very adequately summarizes the content of our work on this rather old text. The term endocrine disruptors is somewhat obscure, if only in the last few months we have talked about it more and more. Moreover, these disruptors are present everywhere: if they are present in our food, cosmetics, pesticides, they also occupy the European political scene, television debates and press articles. It is estimated that 84,000 chemicals were marketed in 2017. However, only 1% of these were tested to verify that they did not pose a risk of endocrine disruption. The World Health Organization has, however, drawn our attention in 2002 to the dangers of endocrine disruptors to the functioning of our body. According to the WHO – and I think it is wise to report this – an endocrine disruptor can be defined as "an exogenous substance or a mixture that alters the function of the endocrine system and causes adverse or undesirable effects in an intact organism, its offspring or subpopulations". The health consequences are multiple: obesity – which we talked about just last week – diabetes, autism, hyperactivity, reproductive disorders and fertility – in short, a lot of neurobehavioural disorders. It is important to stress that it is not really the dose that makes the poison, but the mixture which, in fact, is the moment of exposure that represents the real danger, which is called "the cocktail effect". As you indicated, Ms.Dedry, the Senate has been working on this issue for two years. Numerous hearings have been held. To my knowledge, more than 70 recommendations have been developed in this regard. Our will was of course – because, Mrs. Dedry, you know my pragmatism – to use an already existing job. That is what led me to propose this comprehensive amendment, which has been discussed at length in committee. This amendment includes six key areas listed below very briefly. Firstly, the general political approach: we know the complexity of our Belgian operating system. It is necessary to receive cooperation from the federated entities: it is a request made to the government. Secondly, scientific research: to collect data from independent studies – I stress the scientific and independent validity of these studies – to set up a broad federal human biomonitoring programme and to ensure that an inter-federal report mentioning the results of the various research and human biomonitoring programmes is drawn up. It is also a request to the government. Thirdly, consumer protection: focus on informing and raising public awareness on the basis of clear communication. There is a need to continue to promote the implementation of prevention and use measures within the framework of integrated pesticide management. Fourthly, product labelling: encouraging consumers to make greater use of their right to information. They have this right. Fifthly, the limitation and setting of product standards: I am thinking more specifically of the prohibition of endocrine disruptors in products in which their presence is not really necessary, in order to minimise exposure to the disruptors in question. In particular, for children in the 0-3 year age group, in the context of the file we have named bisphenol A, it is requested that action be taken to ensure that this product is no longer used in all food containers intended for them. Sixthly, in relation to international and European policy, like the IPCC in the climate field, call on international experts able to provide us with objective information on endocrine disruptors, enabling us to ensure coordination and research at international level, and urge the European Union to set without delay precise and ambitious criteria for identifying endocrine disruptors, as it has done for biocides and pesticides. These were the various elements, of course not exhaustive, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, which I wanted to highlight in relation to this resolution which has been carefully drafted and based on both scientific and practical data. The next government will have to make every effort to ensure that this resolution does not go unanswered.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u90	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u91	The vote on the proposal will take place later. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u92	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Dirk Janssens, Nathalie Muylle, Damien Thiéry, Yoleen Van Camp.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u93	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Ine Somers, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u94	Mr. Speaker, Minister, this bill is from this government. It should have been presented to us many months ago since it is supposed to implement a series of measures relating to the 2019 budget. These savings measures are planned for 2019 as a whole and can only be implemented from April onwards. So a deficit in the drug budget is likely to grow even further, I will come back to that. When we know that last November, the General Council of INAMI was already planning an overrun of 82 million for 2019, we think that we could undoubtedly add – and this is deplorable – several tens of millions of euros following the delay in implementing the savings measures that are being submitted to us today. Madam Minister, I wish good luck to the one who will succeed you in a few months and who will start with a famous stone in his shoe. This text once again clearly highlights your policy of double standards in the field of medicines, in favour of the pharmaceutical industry and at the expense of patients. It is true that you often recall that you have reduced the prices of 1,300 medicines with 11 million euros savings for the patient. But we also recall that you have increased antibiotics, stomach medicines and nasal sprays in 2017 and that this has increased the bill by more than 40 million euros. The result is that the bill for our citizens has increased by 9% while it is already the first item of expenditure in the Belgian household health budget. Double standards in favour of the pharmaceutical industry and at the expense of patients since between 2015 and 2019, the pharmaceutical industry's budget will have derailed by almost 1 billion euros. She'll have to pay $365 million back. There is this famous clawback mechanism forcing the pharmaceutical industry to repay part of its budget overrun, but in a very limited way. The result is a score of around 600 million, charged to the social security health care budget; a situation that you have tolerated or even condoned. For my group, it is incomprehensible that you never tried to correct this. Without exaggerating, I would also like to recall the savings made on the health care budget. Under this legislature, this amounts to almost 2 billion euros. Everyone paid the high price: patients, healthcare professionals and hospitals. One sector has been spared, that of the pharmaceutical industry. Last July, you had to see a further significant increase in drug spending in 2018 as well as, already, an overexpenditure announced for 2019. You have therefore decided to impose an additional contribution of €105 million on the pharmaceutical industry. You only planned it for 2019 when the overrun of the drug budget is structural. This amount should have been added to the usual clawback mechanism. Then you present this text to us. We read carefully his article 9, which became article 10. As drafted, there will be no additional reimbursement from the pharmaceutical industry for the overrun announced in 2019. This is when you made a commitment to the Insurance Committee to reform the compensatory levy arrangements to increase the sector's budgetary responsibility and to limit possible overruns. In fact, you are removing the mechanism of compensation and thus the mechanism of accountability of the pharmaceutical industry. Madam Minister, we have therefore reintroduced, with determination, the amendment that we tabled in committee and that you have swept away with a back of your hand to enable the 2019 budget decision to be properly implemented, namely a compensatory contribution of 105 million, plus the usual clawback. We know that once again, you will not support it, that your ex-majority, as long as it still exists, will not support it, whereas access to many medicines has never been more problematic, that shortages have never been more numerous and that the prices of certain medicines have literally blazed. Mr President, it is high time for our group to protect the health care budget and make patients' interests take precedence over those of the pharmaceutical sector shareholders, by making the sector more responsible, by having the will to counter the monopolies built on patents that blow up prices, by laying conditions for the financing of research and by imposing conditions for the financial accessibility of medicines. It's not your choice. You have chosen your side by systematically protecting the pharmaceutical industry at the expense of our social security, our health care budget and patients. My group will therefore vote against this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u95	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Frédéric, I listened carefully to your speech. You will probably not be surprised if I have not quite the same interpretation of the bill as it is presented, especially in relation to the savings that are being made. It is essentially at this level that I would like to intervene because all the measures taken here had already been decided and approved by the General Council of INAMI. As you said, Mr. Frédéric, these measures have indeed been taken as part of the preparation of the 2019 budget. I stress that virtually all the measures that have been taken have been in the interest of the savings in the health care budget, without affecting the patient. It is a fundamental element that does not go quite hand in hand with what I have heard before. The cliff volume is introduced. It is a fundamental element. This is in addition to the patent cliff, which we discussed some time ago. This measure should contribute around EUR 10 million in savings per year, without, I repeat, impacting patients. On the contrary, patients will also benefit. The 10 million I mentioned are of course the benefits that patients could make, but the impact of the full measure is around 55 million euros. With the patent cliff, drug prices drop drastically once upon expiry of the patent, instead of successive reductions as before. It is also an important step forward which ultimately facilitates the administrative task for everyone. Thanks to the cliff volume, the price of medicines will decrease further depending on the volume sold and, as a small feature, the price of the medicine for which there is no generic alternative will also continue to fall. Other measures are introduced by this bill: the maximum price and the cheapest medicines. Effective January 1, 2018, the Minister introduced maximum prices for drugs in conventional pharmacy. This means that, two years after the expiry of a drug's patent, health care insurance only reimburses drugs that fall into the category of least expensive drugs. This mechanism is now extended to drugs delivered in a hospital setting. At the same time, doctors in hospitals will be forced to reach a certain percentage of cheaper medicines or, at the same time, called "cheap drugs" in their prescriptions. This saving is estimated at around €9 million per year. The definition of "cheap prescription" is reinforced. In hospital settings, much of the reductions in drug prices received by hospitals will return to health care insurance. For category F medicines, the prices of these old medicines fall after 12 or 15 years of reimbursement in our country. For drugs in this category F, this was not the case. As of April 1st, this will change. The price will also decrease. In addition to the above amounts, for each of the measures covered by this bill, other measures have been taken that do not specifically require a legal basis and for which approximately 25 million savings are expected in 2019, with an average of 33 million annual. As regards the extension of the scope of confidentiality of contracts provided for in Article 81, the draft text corresponds to the decision taken in the 2019 Health Care Budget Note, also approved by the General Council on 15 October 2018. I would remind you that this procedure has enabled patients in our country to have effective access to the most recent treatments. This is an extremely important element which I recalled in committee. All the benefit goes to the patients, especially since you have to find yourself in a situation where you have a relative who is suffering from a relatively serious illness for which a drug is made available but not specially reimbursed or payable. There are agreements here through this Article 81 which not only help patients in terms of their quality of life, but also, and we must dare say so, save patients from their pathology. As a reminder, these contracts are the result of negotiations between the authorities and the company. It is not the authority or the company alone that decides. There is a prior consultation. These contracts may be launched at the request of the CRM (Medical Reimbursement Commission): if it considers that there is budgetary or clinical uncertainty; or if it issues a negative opinion or no opinion, for that reason, at this time. In this case, the authorities may enter into additional negotiations depending on the outcome of treatment, the burden of illness or medical need, taking into account the cost-effectiveness, which is always a criterion taken into account, as well as the budgetary impact. Thus, the Belgian patient will still be able to have access to this medicine, as I said, in certain situations where there is no longer any other possibility. This decision is fundamental. We had to get him up. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is on the basis of these concrete elements, which once again make it possible to save money in the 2019 health care budget, but which, I would remind you, will have no impact on the patient, that we will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u96	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, this proposal contains a number of good measures. We even share the central concern. It is necessary to intervene in order to prevent medicines off-patent from weighing too heavily on the health insurance budget. However, also the gifts you give to the pharmaceutical sector are continued. In recent years, the recovery of budget overruns, the clawbacks, has been too low. What the recovery system will give next year is in the dark. We are wondering whether there will no longer be a brake on expenditure in the pharmaceutical sector in the next legislature. The proposal put forward by the former Swedish majority implements the decided savings on medicines, especially for pharmaceutical companies, which have been red taped hundreds of millions over the last few years. Everyone supports the starting point. The savings in the pharmaceutical sector must not affect the patient and one should focus on the budget overruns that the companies themselves organise. Madam Secretary, you claim that you are doing everything you can to make price reductions for medicines off-patent. You say that you combine this with offering generic alternatives, with a price dynamic being installed at the end with ceiling prices. That's right. You may indeed put a few plumes on your hat, such as making medicines more accessible and cheaper for example against hepatitis C and HIV, as well as some oncological medicines. Only, that's not really what we're talking about here. The provisions that we will adopt in the proposal are necessary because the medicines off-patent continue to have too high a cost for health insurance and therefore need to be dealt with. Unfortunately, it is too little, too late, and it does not go far enough. That is why we will, together with our colleagues in the PS, retable an important amendment in this plenary session to provide for an additional EUR 105 million refund by the pharmaceutical sector, to be added to the already planned clawback. The clawback, also known as the safeguard contribution, also affects the patients of generic medicines, and even disproportionate. It is precisely the generic pharmaceutical sector that is an important partner in the whole story of curbing the price of medicines. That is why my colleague, Mrs Temmerman, has tabled an amendment from the sp.a in committee to undo this. We will retable this amendment today. Another amendment tabled and voted down by Mrs Temmerman will also be retabled. It is an amendment that should allow researchers from the Federal Health Knowledge Centre to have access to the actual evolution of the net expenditure on medicines under the so-called Article 81 contrasts, the infamous secret contracts that regulate more expensive orphan medicines, through negotiation by the Minister and the producer, so that patients can be helped. In our opinion, access by the KCE to all data would lead to better advice from the knowledge centre. An important and unanswered question is whether the system of the clawforward, i.e. the advance recovery of the required savings, will continue to exist beyond 2019. If I reread the reports of the debates, this proposal will not be conclusive, which will result in the clean-up and derailment of the pharmaceutical budgets for a future government. That at least is not neat and it will sooner or later have an impact on the prices for the patient. It is proposed by the Swedish parties, if I may put it this way, that the price reductions after 15 years should be further developed on the basis of the step-by-step system, with an increase in the level of expansion depending on the volume. In addition, the ceiling price system is extended to those medicines that are only available in hospitals. Last year the ceiling price system was already introduced for medicines delivered in open official. The proposal also introduces the system of cheapest prescription in hospitals and introduces corresponding quotas. These are a number of good elements in the text. We have been arguing with sp.a for over a decade to maximise this price cap model in pharmaceutical policy. In the debates, together with colleagues from the PS, we asked why the government did not put the restraining measures already taken in October for the pharmaceutical companies into the law on various social provisions of 21 December 2018. The delay has caused the deficit, caused by the pharmaceutical sector, to rise again in recent months to several tens of millions more. Extrapolated to a full year, it is estimated that the past and the current year can be taken into account with an increasing deficit of 82 million euros. Madam Minister, if I am well informed, you have fixed these remarks by saying that the measures could not previously be inserted into a law laying down various provisions or into a programme law by the fall of the government. However, as a former Member of Parliament, you should have known that you could have had a large majority in the Chamber in order to start work immediately. You chose not to. In conclusion, what we can say today, and that may well apply to me as a final balance of your medicines policy, is that from the start of this period of government you have addressed the pharmaceutical sector with velvet gloves. The so-called Future Pact with the pharmaceutical industry, which you signed in July 2015, stipulated that expenditure on medicines would increase by no more than 0.5% a year. Since then, the cumulative overrun of your budget for the pharmaceutical industry has been close to a billion euros. The shareholders love it, not the patients. I repeat what Mr Temmerman said in committee. The budget overruns of the pharmaceutical industry must not be compensated by hospitals or patients. For example, the profits generated by hospitals in their pharmacy should be used primarily to compensate for the under-financing of their care assignments. Madam Minister, we are again tabling a number of amendments to adjust the mechanism that is being installed today so that it is fair. The pharmaceutical sector needs to contribute more, the generic industry needs to be protected, and the KCE needs to have more access to secret medicines contracts. With this text, of which the Swedish parties were kind enough to submit it for you, Big Pharma gets away with a low invoice. We shall therefore vote against it in this plenary. The real invoice will probably follow in the next legislature, when the new government is allowed to clean up the mess. We can only hope that, with a few years' delay, patients and hospitals will not take the fall.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u97	Mr. Speaker, for us, this bill – not to say a bill – is generally in the right direction, in particular by approving savings in the pharmaceutical sector, a measure of savings that must be taken as soon as possible to avoid further burdening the health care budget. On the other hand, article 9 is a problem for us. While it helps to prevent the pharma sector from becoming less red in 2019, it does not solve the problem of the systematic budget overrun by the pharmaceutical sector. In 2015, the budget for proprietary medicinal products exceeded 192 million net. In 2018, there would still be a minimum of 373 million gross overruns and a minimum of 205 million net overruns. It's huge! Between 2018 and 2019, the firm's pharma specialty budget grew by around 7.3%. By the way, workers say in the atrium that they are interested in such a rate of increase in their wages. By offering the pharmaceutical sector to pay back only $105 million for 2019 instead of the existing accountability mechanism, you give them a wonderful gift. They couldn't have dreamed better! Madam Minister, you miss the opportunity of structurally resolving the problem of over-budgeting for proprietary medicinal products. Indeed, since this measure is not offset by parallel structural efforts, it will only have an effect for 2019, if it does not change in the future the repayment by firms, usually made on a basis of 0.5% of their budget when an overrun turns out to be. For the following years, 2020, 2021, it also generates a starting point for a new base, 7% higher than the current base. This new start for pharma is very cheap paid, only 105 million, when we know that the standard of legal growth applicable to health care and therefore to other care sectors is 1.5%. In addition, you allow them to escape a refund of a higher amount in case of a higher overrun for 2019, as it is not yet completed. Finally, you do not put in place the structural reduction of the Pharma budget in order to contain the costs for the coming years and thus leave a very bad gift to your successor for the next legislature. Together with the PS and the Sp.a., we have co-signed amendments that will allow the problem of budget overruns to be dealt with structurally. I call on colleagues to support these amendments, in which case we will abstain from the text.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u98	Mr President, our group will support the proposal, although I have an amendment to Article 9. I'd like to explain. Article 9 sets the flat-rate amount for 2019 given by the RIZIV to the sickness funds to pay their administrative costs. It is important that the Finance Inspectorate has given an opinion on the amount of these administrative costs, which it considers to be too high. In calculating the flat-rate amount, the transfer of powers to the Länder will result in a deduction of EUR 36,165 million. But that amount is based on an estimate of the insurance institutions themselves, which take the 2016 achievements as their starting point. The amount is just wrong and too low. According to the Treasury Inspectorate, 39.320 million is to be deducted. It clarifies that "if the parameter formula for the period 2016-2019 is applied to this amount for 2016 and the additional amount for the German-speaking Community is taken into account, this will result in an estimated amount of 39,320 million'. This amount of 39.3 million is mentioned in a note to the General Council of the RIZIV. Although the amount of EUR 36 million is included in the 2019 budget, the Treasury Inspectorate points out that the amount cannot be verified on the basis of the information provided. She is therefore asking not to take that into account. It is not the first time that calculations are made by the insurance institutions themselves, which, in retrospect, appear to be unsubstantiated and wrong. Moreover, it now appears that the justification for the amendment inserting the article in the legislative proposal also indicates that the Länder will contribute around EUR 40 million to the financing of the administrative costs of the sickness funds as a result of the powers transferred. In other words, both because of what the Communities will ultimately contribute and because of what the Treasury Inspectorate says, the logic is actually completely lost if we stick to that 36,165 million. It is a lot of figures, but with the amendment I propose to deal with the calculation made by the Treasury Inspectorate. This will actually save EUR 3.2 million in a very simple and correct way. I therefore assume that the amendment will be fully supported.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u99	Mr President, I shall now be brief, as the discussion in committee took a long time. No sector has contributed so much to a reduction in expenditure......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The growth standard for the whole health sector was 1.5 % per year, but on average 0.5 % for the pharmaceutical sector. Many innovative medicines have been brought directly to the patient by a system that envys all our neighbours. It concerns not only oncological medication, but also medicines for hepatitis and HIV, which were brought more quickly to patients, including children. And indeed, the budget is exceeded, but if we leave the silo approach, the budget overrun is not so bad given the reduction in expenditure on other social security items. The pharmaceutical sector has contributed most. Indeed, all exceedances of the 0.5 % growth standard were reimbursed by the industry itself by measures, saving only the patient. That is the case again this time, as Mr Damien Thiéry said. Moreover, every year the pharmaceutical sector also accounts for around EUR 400 million in levies and contributions, while this time the clawback amounts to EUR 105 million. In addition, all the measures adopted each year in different programme laws are added. I therefore believe that the policy was conducted fairly. The claim that more money for medicines is a gift for the pharmaceutical sector does not go away, because it is a gift for the patient. After all, the patient has access to the medicines and he is entitled to them. We have ensured that the patient has the best healing opportunities or can increase his quality of life.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u100	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u101	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3555/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3555/6) The title was changed by the committee to "legislative proposal laying down provisions on the reimbursement of proprietary medicinal products as well as administrative costs, efficiency and transparency of insurance institutions." The title has been amended by the committee in "Proposal for a law laying down provisions for reimbursement of proprietary medicinal products and for the administration, efficiency and transparency of insurers". The bill has 13 articles. The bill has 13 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u102	Art. 9 • 12.. Valerie Van Peel (3555/7) Art. 10 • 11 – André Frédéric cs (3555/7) • 13 – Karin Jiroflée cs (3555/7) Annex V.Part 2.124 • 14 – Karin Jiroflée cs (3555/7) ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u103	Sustained: Amendments and Articles 9, 10 and 11.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u104	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 8, 12 and 13.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u105	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the reserved amendments as well as on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u106	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Raoul Hedebouw, Marco Van Hees. The Committee on Health, the Environment and Social Renewal proposes to reject this bill. (3456/2) The Committee on Public Health, the Environment and the Renewal of the Society proposes to reject this bill. (3456/92) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the author. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the author.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u107	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u108	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a bill on a particularly important subject. This proposal is supported by a petition which, in just a few days, has collected 7,000 signatures. It is part of a fight initiated by Nelson Mandela in the late '90s. He fought against multinational pharmaceutical companies that were preventing the production of cheap AIDS medicines in South Africa. A proposal for the survival of certain patients in Belgium not to be played on the blackmail of multinationals of the medicine, with the sole aim of continuing to make billions of profits. We can mention Novartis, which makes €8.6 billion in profit, and Pfizer 12.3 billion. This is a proposal that a treatment that can be obtained for 300 euros in India does not cost 25,000 euros in Belgium. This is the very first bill of the PTB on which there was a vote in committee, at the very end of the legislature. A negative vote. Before I was a member of Parliament, I thought that the debate on such a bill was a dense exercise, with arguments, counter-arguments, references to experts, studies, experiences in other countries. A debate at the end of which the one who had the best arguments could win the support of others. But in order for there to be arguments and counter-arguments in a debate, there must already be a debate. What was the debate? I'll read you the report. After my introduction to the proposal, the discussion: "Mr Damien Thiéry (MR) pointed out that the bill under consideration was intended to amend the Code of Economic Law. He wondered whether the Committee on the Economy should either ask for an opinion or refer the text to the Committee on the Economy." Mr. Thiéry, I've timed nine and a half seconds. You even added with a certain disdain: "That's all this proposal inspires me." In any case, you had the merit of intervening, unlike the others. We have therefore had nine and a half seconds of debate on a subject which I think is particularly important. The other surprise was the vote. Article 1 was voted on: eight against and two against. This article states: "This Law shall regulate a matter referred to in article 74 of the Constitution." It is a bit like saying, "Today is 21 March" and eight out of ten Members voted against this statement, which is nothing but the expression of legislative formalism. The most incredible thing is that after voting against this article, there was no more debate and even no more vote on the whole proposal! That is how the debates take place, or rather what the lack of debate in this chamber, which some call a "temple of democracy", looks like, but which seems to me above all to be a democracy of low intensity. This proposal addresses a serious issue, since it is concerned with people who suffer from rare diseases. The press has revealed some concrete cases of patients facing the rapacity of multinational pharmaceutical companies. I am thinking of the story of Jean-François, who has a rare genetic disease, XCT, which affects the brain. He was deprived of treatment, because the pharmaceutical company which had obtained the monopoly had increased the price from 38 euros to 12,500 euros, making the treatment impayable. Another story is Valentina, a little girl with a rare disease that affects the bones, heart and lungs. To get the state to pay back his medicine, the pharmaceutical company blackmailed him. She stopped offering the medicine free of charge to two patients, including Valentina, if social security did not reimburse the medicine. It happens that these pharmaceutical companies can themselves fix the price of a drug while it is patented. The Minister of Health Maggie De Block states that in Belgium, she can do nothing, or not much, to remedy this kind of situation. However, it is itself which contributes to the sharp increase in the price of medicines, since it applies the procedure called "Article 81". It enables agreements to be drawn up directly between the Minister's office and the pharmaceutical industry. The price is fixed in secret and concerns innovative medicines. Last year, the minister's office would have allocated a billion euros for such medicines, including sofosbuvir against hepatitis C. Let us take the example of this medicine. In Belgium, the cost of a single treatment now amounts to EUR 25 000, whereas in India, where the principle of compulsory licensing has been applied, the same medicine costs EUR 300 per treatment. When one finds a malfeasance in the head of the multinational pharmaceutical company, the production of this medicine is imposed by the firm which can produce it at the lowest price. This amounts to EUR 25 000 in Belgium, compared with EUR 300 in India. With this proposal, we wanted to establish this principle in our country. This right to grant binding licences was born in the late 1990s, when Nelson Mandela, with the support of many popular movements and NGOs around the world, launched the fight against multinational pharmaceutical companies, which were precisely preventing Indian companies from exporting cheap AIDS medicines to South Africa. The proposal provided that the Minister of Health could, on her own initiative, impose mandatory licences for a drug. In this regard, we explicitly mentioned the hypothesis of situations where there are serious indications that the selling prices charged by these multinationals of the medicine are disproportionate to the costs of production. This proposal could have solved these exorbitant price problems for medicines for rare diseases. It would have solved a fundamental problem faced by these families and, at the same time, that of the additional cost often imposed in the form of blackmail by multinationals of the medicine on our social security. But obviously a majority of right-wing Members of the Health Committee did not want it. There is still an opportunity to vote against the rejection of this bill, although, unfortunately, I do not have much illusions about the willingness of right-wing Members of this House to really look after the health of patients and the health of social security.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u109	No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place later. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u110	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 3078: Luk Van Biesen, Dirk Van Mechelen, Vincent Van Quickenborne, Rita Gantois - 3128: Roel Deseyn, Jef Van den Bergh, Vincent Van Peteghem.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u111	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Calomne and Mr Gilkinet, rapporteurs, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u112	Mr President, I would like to thank all those who have contributed to the legislative proposal before us. With the tax shelter, we have given Belgian companies additional opportunities to become big players on the market. After the film industry and the performing arts, the tax shelter system now receives a third part, the gaming industry. The Flemish and Walloon gaming industry has a very strong reputation in the world. However, the major problem for companies is that they are unable to raise enough financial resources on the market to market their products, so that they are quickly taken over by very large foreign companies after their start-up. That's how our technology ends up in the hands of foreign companies. In order to give the industry in Belgium every opportunity to develop, we have submitted the present tax shelter proposal, together with the colleagues from CD&V. Many members of the opposition also supported the proposal in the Finance Committee, for which they thanked.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u113	Mr President, our group will also support this proposal because we want to give this sector every opportunity to grow. Computer games can really no longer be thought away from the world of life, especially our children, but adults also like to be tempted into this kind of relaxation. However, the world of these games is dominated mainly by foreign products. Our country, however, has a lot to offer. The main raw material at our disposal is, of course, our brains. We can really compete with the rest of the world. In the field of games we have very good, specific and excellent training. Among other things, the Hogeschool West-Vlaanderen, Hasselt University and Albert Jacquard University in Namur offer these courses. Nevertheless, this sector remains a relatively small sector. In Belgium, about 800 people are employed in this sector. As a result, our students, when they have graduated, are often forced to look for work in the sector abroad or outside the sector in their own country. That's a shame, isn't it? The development of this sector is mainly hampered by underfunding. The development of games requires large pre-financing. It should be borne in mind that the returns are uncertain. The taxshelter is the perfect technique to support that growth in the games sector. It is intended to attract funding for products with a long production time and where cash flow is generated at launch, such as film production. The Walloon producers will become more competitive with this tax shelter because, like their French competitors, they can enjoy a tax shelter. And multilingualism in Flanders is an asset that we can play internationally through this sector. That is why we will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u114	Mr President, I confirm that we are pleased to provide funding to this sector, which was lacking. There are about 100 companies involved in our country and this will prevent them from turning abroad to try to find a development. There are still two conditions: the agreement of the European Commission and the internal agreement of our country, since this implies cooperation between the Communities, particularly in the cultural and educational sectors. However, we may need to think about the capacity of the tax shelter sector – as well as that of our public finances – to sustain further enlargement. However, we are very pleased to give this boost to the financing of the video game sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u115	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u116	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3078/10) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3078/10) The bill has 7 articles. The bill has 7 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u117	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u118	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Veerle Wouters, Hendrik Vuye. The Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Public Prosecutor proposes that this bill be rejected. (2299/5) The Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service proposes to reject this bill. (2299/5) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the author. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors. The rapporteur, Mr Eric Thiébaut, referred to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u119	Mr President, a large language pact was adopted here in the Chamber in 1962-1963. After that, however, we found that the language pact in Brussels has never been respected. Each year, the Deputy Governor writes a report with figures. Each year it appears that the Brussels local authorities, the municipalities and the OCMWs are increasingly violating the language law. Now, the latest annual report for 2017 shows that of the decisions of the Brussels OMCWs on contractual staff, only 4.4 % remain in line with the language law. The figure of zero decisions that are in accordance with the language law is thus really in sight. The language law has thus become a law without teeth. The law is not being applied. How does the mechanism work? The Deputy Governor may suspend. The vice governor always suspends. Unfortunately, the suspension only lasts 40 days, after which it is undone, unless the Brussels Capital Government, in the case of the municipality, converts the suspension into destruction. In the case of an OMCW, the suspension may be transformed into destruction by the United College of the Joint Community Commission. Only that doesn't happen. The members of the Open Vld abstained in the committee, referring to the aforementioned mechanism. Dear Members of the Open Vld, the last report of the Vice Governor states that there were exactly 0.0 destructions in 2017. In other words, you're selling silly Dad. One after the other Minister for the Interior has always suggested here that it was a problem of the Brussels people, referring to the mechanism I have just explained and pointing out that the problem could not be solved at federal level. Mr Jambon has also repeated this here on many occasions. The strength of change was apparently rather the strength of repetition on that point. Mrs Wouters and I have tabled a proposal which receives both a positive opinion from the Dutch speakers and from the French speakers of the Standing Committee on Linguistic Monitoring. It also received a favourable opinion from the General Assembly of the Council of State. They were also Dutch speakers and French speakers together. They are, of course, legal advice. What has always been denied here, even during this term of office, namely that this cannot be resolved at federal level, is now being abolished. This can be resolved by the establishment of special administrative supervision, which is permitted by Article 7 of the Special Law of 8 August 1980. That's the technique we use. With our legislative proposal, we are not changing anything, not a letter, to language legislation, but we are ensuring that a mechanism is put in place to enforce the language law. The question is, of course, as Mrs Wouters and I once wrote in an opinion piece about this bill, whether the Flemish will behave like Pontius Pilate. Colleagues, you have a majority in this Chamber. And yes, they will behave like Pontius Pilate. We have been able to put our legislative proposal to the vote in the Committee on the Interior with great difficulty and thanks to the fall of the Michael I administration. The chairman of this committee delayed the discussion, with a great deal of talent, from October 2017 to two weeks ago. It is a pity that a democracy does not have the courage to vote against proposals that are opposed. On the contrary, we are going to delay the handling of such legislative proposals by asking for opinions, organising hearings and so on. However, Mr President, miracles are not over. The N-VA has seen the light and voted in favour of our proposal in committee, and I am very grateful to colleagues for it. You voted in favour of a bill which Mr Jambon has always said here was impossible. You even applauded that at the time. Converters, they're always welcome. The door is wide open to those who repent. You can always contact us. And then the others. Mr Verherstraeten, what did CD&V do with that proposal in the Home Affairs Committee? Your group has behaved like Pontius Pilate. You washed your hands in innocence. You've been abstaining. Your party has been complaining for decades about the non-application of the language law in Brussels and when you can resolve it, instead of acting like the merciful Samaritan from the Bible and voting in favour, you act like Pontius Pilate and wash your hands in innocence. Converters are welcome, Mr Verherstraeten. Your group, too, may be able to become Flemish again and adopt this proposal. Then you won't have to complain in the future. The other Flemish parties who were present on that committee, who also acted as Pontius Pilate. Also complains in the media that the language law is not being applied in Brussels, but if they can do something about it, they put their heads in the sand to keep the French-speaking people from getting in the way. The French speakers stand out for their position and vote against it with no embarrassment, but the Flemings... unfortunately. With such Members of Parliament, go to war, and people know in advance that they should sign a peace treaty or, perhaps better, a surrender treaty. I hope there will be some converts here after all. My group and the Flemish interest do not have the right to vote in committee, so we did not vote in favour. That proposal has now been rejected because most Flemish parties in that committee abstained. If you do so again, never again complain about the non-application of the language law in Brussels. I won't be sitting here anymore, but my ghost will still be wandering around somewhere and so will Mrs. Wouters'. We will remind you of this vote, how you are today Pontius Pilate, or convert according to the attitude you will adopt. Flemish colleagues, you have a majority here. We are also in a special situation here. There is no government or a government without a majority. So you have much more freedom of vote than usual. You can now solve a problem that you complain about every year on 11 July, which is the non-application of language legislation in Brussels, so that you can say very proudly that you have solved it within a few months. And it's possible! So Mrs. Wouters and I are looking forward to your behavior. Which Biblical scene will you choose? Horresco referens in my case, but for once I will quote the N-VA as an example. They're converts. They have converted after having stopped this for so many years. They voted in favour in committee, for which they are grateful. You should have had that courage before, colleagues from the N-VA, but every convert is welcome. We will be happy to accept your vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u120	No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place later. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u121	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Benoît Piedboeuf, Nathalie Muylle, Leen Dierick, Dirk Janssens.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u122	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur, Mr Jean-Marc Delizée, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u123	Mr President, this was a bill transformed into a proposal to amend the legislation on the Health Fund, the implementation of the European regulation on the processing of personal data, the creation of an administrative department with autonomous accounts "Helina en Isabella Godtschalck", and a legal basis for the implementation of the Fipronil 2 measure. It is known that the first measure Fipronil 2 was intended to cover the farmers affected with two types of aid. It should be noted that 83 operators have introduced one or more dossiers and that an amount of more than EUR 11 million has already been paid to farmers. The issue of transformation and distribution remained to be addressed. That is in particular what this proposal rules. The proposal was adopted unanimously in committee. I suggest that we do the same in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u124	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u125	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3551/3) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3551/3) The bill has 22 articles. The bill has 22 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u126	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u127	By letter dated 12 March 2019, the Minister of Justice requests that a technical improvement be made to the draft law introducing the Code of Companies and Associations and laying down various provisions. By letter dated 12 March 2019, the Minister of Justice requested a technical correction to the bill introducing the Code of Companies and Associations and introducing various provisions. The draft law was adopted in the plenary session of 28 February 2019, no. 3119/24. The bill was passed at the plenary session of February 28, 2019, No. 3119/24. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 March 2019, I propose that you agree to this. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 March 2019, I propose that you approve this request. A corrigendum to the technical improvement will be published on the Court's website, No. 3119/26. A correction with the technical correction will be published on the Chamber's website, No. 3119/26. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u128	Mr Jan Decock was appointed alternate member of Mr David Baele of the Central Prison Supervisory Board by the plenary session of 28 February 2019. Mr. Jan Decock was appointed as an alternate member of Mr. David Baele of the Central Prison Supervision Board at the plenary session on 28 February 2019. However, by e-mail dated 13 March 2019, he submitted his resignation. By e-mail of 13 March 2019, however, he resigned. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 24 (7) of the Basic Law of 12 January 2005 on the prison system and the legal status of the detainees, the Chamber should immediately appoint a new alternate member in the event of the opening of an alternate member's seat. In accordance with Article 24, § 7, paragraph 4, of the Law of Principles of 12 January 2005 concerning the Prison Administration and the Legal Status of Prisoners, the Chamber must without delay appoint a new alternate member when a replacement place is vacant. The Chamber should therefore appoint a new alternate member for Mr David Baele. The House must therefore appoint a new alternate member for Mr. David Baele. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 March 2019, I propose that you publish a call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandate of Deputy Member of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prison Office. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 March 2019, I propose that you publish a call for candidates to the Belgian Monitor for the term of alternate member of the Central Prison Supervisory Board. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u129	At the request of the authors, I propose the legislative proposal (Mrs Vanessa Matz, Mr Michel de Lamotte, Mrs Catherine Fonck and Mr André Frédéric) amending the Code of Companies to prohibit legal persons from exercising a public mandate, No. 2201/1, to be referred to the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and Public Administration, to include it in the debate on the bill (Mr Vincent Van Peteghem, Mrs Catherine Fonck, Mr Kristof Calvo, Gilles Vanden Burre and Brecht Vermeulen) prohibiting management agreements for government directors, No. 3616/1. At the request of the authors, I propose that you refer to the Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service the bill (Ms Vanessa Matz, Mr Michel de Lamotte, Mrs Catherine Fonck and Mr André Frédéric) amending the Company Code, aimed at prohibiting legal persons from exercising a public mandate, No. 2201/1, in order to add it to the discussion of the bill (Mr Vincent Van Peteghem, Ms Catherine Fonck, MM. Kristof Calvo, Gilles Vanden Burre and Brecht Vermeulen) prohibiting the use of management contracts to public administrators, No. 3616/1. The bill was sent to the Trade and Economic Law Committee on 15 December 2016. This bill had previously been referred to the Commission on Commercial and Economic Law on 15 December 2016. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. At the request of the proposers, I propose the legislative proposal (Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne, Mrs Ine Somers and Mr Damien Thiéry) on the granting of a lump sum to persons suffering from congenital malformations resulting from the taking of medicines containing thalidomide by the mother during pregnancy, No. 3622/1, to be referred to the Committee on Social Affairs. At the request of the authors, I propose that you refer back to the Committee on Social Affairs the bill (Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne, Mrs Ine Somers and Mr Damien Thiéry) concerning the granting of a lump sum for persons suffering from congenital malformations due to the ingestion by their mothers during pregnancy of medicinal products containing thalidomide, No 3622/1. The bill was sent to the Committee for Health, the Environment and Social Renewal on 28 February 2019. This bill was referred to the Society's Public Health, Environment and Renewal Committee on February 28, 2019. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u130	The next item is the secret vote on naturalisations. (3630/1-2) The next item is the vote on naturalisations. (3630/1-2) Members are invited to deposit the proposal of naturalisation laws in the ballot box. Members are requested to submit the proposed naturalization laws in the ballot box. The proposal of naturalisation laws must not be signed. The proposed naturalization laws cannot be signed. Where a member opposes the naturalisation of an applicant, he shall delete the name of the person concerned from the list which was delivered to him. A member who does not intend to grant naturalization to an applicant will delete the name of the applicant from the list given to him. Two Members must vote. I propose that our youngest two Members, Mrs Nawal Ben Hamou and Mr Kristof Calvo, be appointed as voters. Two members shall proceed to the counting of the ballot. I propose that you appoint the two youngest members, Ms. Nawal Ben Hamou and Mr. Kristof Calvo, as deputy returning officer. I invite the voters from the names to call. I invite the deputy returning officers to make the roll call.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u131	We will close the secret vote on naturalization requests in a moment. We will close the ballot for naturalization applications. I would ask those Members who have not yet done so to put their ballots on the bus immediately. I ask those members who have not yet tabled their ballots to do so immediately. The secret ballot is closed. I declare the ballot closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u132	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I consider them to be adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals will be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 March 2019, I also propose that you consider: - the bill (Miss Caroline Cassart-Mailleux, Isabelle Galant and Mr Benoît Friart) amending the Law of 22 December 2016 introducing a right of bridging in favour of self-employed persons and the Royal Decree of 8 January 2017 implementing the Law of 22 December 2016 introducing a right of bridging in favour of self-employed persons, No. 3656/1. Sent to the Commission for Business, Science Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and Agriculture - the legislative proposal (Mr Michel de Lamotte cs) to ensure the legibility of the law applicable to associations and foundations, No. 3664/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u133	- the bill (Mr Philippe Pivin cs) amending Article 25 (1) of the Law of 27 April 2018 on the railway police, No. 3665/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u134	- the proposal for a declaration (Mr Kristof Calvo, Mr Georges Gilkinet and Mr Stefaan Van Hecke) amending the Constitution, No. 3666/1. - the proposal for a declaration (Mr Patrick Dewael) on the revision of various provisions of the Constitution, No. 3668/1. - the proposal for a declaration (Mrs Monica De Coninck) amending Article 11a, second paragraph, of the Constitution, to ensure representation of each sex of at least 40% of the same sex within the Council of Ministers and the Community and regional governments, No. 3671/1. - the proposal for a declaration (Mr Patrick Dewael) amending Article 24 (1) and (3) of the Constitution, No. 3674/1. - the proposal for a declaration (Mr Patrick Dewael) amending Article 181 of the Constitution, No. 3675/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u135	- the legislative proposal (Mr Hendrik Bogaert and Mrs Nahima Lanjri) amending the law of 13 July 1976 on the numbers of officers and the statutes of the personnel of the armed forces, with a view to aligning the parental leave system of the military with that of the staff of the national authorities, No. 3669/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u136	- the bill (Mrs Sonja Becq and Mr Raf Terwingen) establishing a Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights, No. 3670/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u137	- the legislative proposal (Mrs Nathalie Muylle) amending the Royal Decree of 12 January 2006 establishing the nursing activities which the healthcare professionals may carry out and the conditions under which healthcare professionals may take these actions, No. 3672/1. - the bill (Mrs Nathalie Muylle) amending the Royal Decree of 12 January 2006 laying down the detailed rules for registration as a healthcare professional, No. 3673/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u138	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 March 2019, I also propose that you take into account: - the bill (Ms Caroline Cassart-Mailleux, Isabelle Galant and M. Benoît Friart) amending the law of 22 December 2016 establishing a bridge right in favour of self-employed workers and the royal decree of 8 January 2017 implementing the law of 22 December 2016 establishing a bridge right in favour of self-employed persons, n° 3656/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u139	- the proposal for a law (Mr Michel de Lamotte et al.) to ensure the legibility of the law applicable to associations and foundations, No 3664/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u140	- the draft law (Mr Philippe Pivin et al.) amending Article 25, § 1, of the Law of 27 April 2018 on the Railway Police, No 3665/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u141	- the proposal for a declaration (MM. Kristof Calvo, Georges Gilkinet and Stefaan Van Hecke) for constitutional review, No. 3666/1. - the proposal for a declaration (Mr Patrick Dewael) to revise various provisions of the Constitution, No. 3668/1. - the proposal for a declaration (Ms. Monica De Coninck) to revise Article 11a, paragraph 2, of the Constitution, with a view to ensuring a representation of at least 40% of each sex in the Council of Ministers, as well as in the Community and regional governments, No. 3671/1. - the proposal for a declaration (Mr Patrick Dewael) to revise Article 24, §§ 1 and 3, of the Constitution, No 3674/1. - the proposal for a declaration (Mr Patrick Dewael) to revise Article 181 of the Constitution, No. 3675/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u142	- the draft law (Mr. Hendrik Bogaert and Ms. Nahima Lanjri) amending the Act of 13 July 1976 on the number of officers and the status of the personnel of the armed forces with a view to aligning the system of parental leave of the military with that applicable to the personnel of the State administration, No. 3669/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u143	- the bill (Mrs. Sonja Becq and Mr. Raf Terwingen) establishing a Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights, No. 3670/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u144	- the proposal for a law (Ms Nathalie Muylle) amending the Royal Decree of 12 January 2006 laying down the nursing activities which may be carried out by health-care workers and the conditions under which such health-care workers may carry out such acts, No. 3672/1. - the draft law (Ms Nathalie Muylle) amending the Royal Decree of 12 January 2006 laying down the procedure for registration as a caregiver, No 3673/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u145	I also suggest that you consider: - the proposal for a declaration (Mr Peter De Roover) on the revision of the Constitution, No. 3684/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u146	I also propose that you take into account: - the proposal for a declaration (Mr. Peter De Roover) amending the Constitution, No. 3684/1. Referral to the Committee for the Revision of the Constitution and the Reform of the Institutions Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u147	Mr President, I am asking for the urgency of the bill to amend section 25 of the Railway Police Act of 27 April 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u148	It's number 3665/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u149	That's right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u150	Mr President, yesterday in the Committee on Infrastructure, the Minister called for this text to be considered as a matter of urgency. It was therefore included in the first item on the agenda next Wednesday, as it concerns an agreement between the unions and the management of SNCB. As this will be discussed at the next committee meeting, the request for urgency is not necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u151	However, we can ask for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u152	Two precautions worth better than one, I maintain the urgent request for this text to be presented and voted on Wednesday in the Committee on Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u153	I propose that we take a decision on this request. I would suggest that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u154	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 122 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 122 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (1451/9) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (1451/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u155	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 118 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 121 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3587/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3587/4) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? Mrs Patricia Ceyssens voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u156	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes [[120]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 120 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3340/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3340/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u157	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 93 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 28 Abstensions Total 121 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (1367/8) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (1367/ 8) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u158	Vote on Amendment No 12 by Valerie Van Peel to Article 9. (3555/7) Vote on Amendment No 12 by Valerie Van Peel on Article 9. (3555/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes [[28]] Yes No. 90 No Abstentions 4 Abstensions Total 122 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 9 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 9 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 11 by André Frédéric cs to Article 10. (3555/7) Vote on Amend No, I'm not. 11 van André Frédéric cs op artikel 10. (3555/7) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[40]] Yes No. 69 No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 121 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected. The amendment was therefore rejected. Mr. Benoît Friart and Ms. Caroline Cassart-Mailleux voted against. Vote on Amendment No 13 by Karin Jiroflée cs to Article 10. (3555/7) Vote on Amendment No 13 by Karin Jiroflée cs on Article 10. (3555/7) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u159	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 10 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 10 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 14 by Karin Jiroflée cs to Article 11. (3555/7) Vote on Amendment No 14 by Karin Jiroflée cs on Article 11. (3555/7) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u160	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 11 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 11 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u161	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 72 Yes No. [[28]] No Abstentions 23 Abstensions Total 123 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (3555/8) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (3555/8) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u162	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u163	Yes 83 Yes No. [[40]] No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 123 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The Bill No. 3456/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Bill No. 3456/1 is therefore rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u164	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 121 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 123 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3336/5) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3336/5) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u165	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 121 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 122 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3510/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3510/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u166	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 119 Yes No. 1 No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 123 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (3078/11) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (3078/11) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u167	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? [[No]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to cancel this vote and do it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u168	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u169	Yes [[43]] Yes No. [[42]] No Abstentions 39 Abstensions Total 124 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The Bill No. 2299/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Bill No. 2299/1 is therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u170	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 122 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 122 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (3551/4) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (3551/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u171	This is the result of the secret vote on naturalizations. (3630/2) This is the result of the naturalization vote. (3630/2) Aantal stemmen 102 Number of voters Valid votes 102 Votes valables Perfect majority 52 Absolute majority All naturalisations have achieved the absolute majority. The proposal of naturalisation laws will be voted on shortly. All naturalizations obtained an absolute majority. The vote on the proposed naturalization laws will take place in a moment. The proposal of the Committee on Naturalizations consists of four parts (A, B, C and D) each containing several articles to be adopted. The Naturalisations Commission's proposal is divided into four parts (A, B, C and D) each containing several articles to be adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u172	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part A) will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part A) will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u173	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part B) will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part B) will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u174	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part C) will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part C) will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u175	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole of the proposal for a naturalisation law (Part D) will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the whole proposal for a naturalisation law (Part D) will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u176	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal for naturalisation laws, the articles of which we have just discussed. We will proceed to vote on the proposed naturalization laws that we have just discussed. Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u177	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes 119 Yes No. 4 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 123 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part A). It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part A). It will be subject to Royal Assent. Mr Aldo Carcaci voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u178	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes 119 Yes No. 4 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 123 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part B). It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part B). It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u179	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes 118 Yes No. 4 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 122 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part C). It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part C). It will be subject to Royal Assent. Mr Deseyn has voted like his group. Mr de Lamotte voted like his group.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u180	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes 119 Yes No. 4 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 123 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the proposal of naturalisation law (Part D). It will be submitted to the King for ratification. Accordingly, the Chamber adopts the proposed naturalization law (Part D). It will be subject to Royal Assent.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u181	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check his voice? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 19) Yes 121 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 121 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-21-54-plenair-ip276x.u182	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 28 March 2019. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, March 28, 2019. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. I wish you a pleasant continuation. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 28 March 2019 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, March 28, 2019 at 2:15 p.m.
