ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall begin this sitting with the oral questions. Mr De Roover has asked for the floor. I guess I know the reason. Several members of the government are absent. Some government members are in China. Some other government members, who are not in China, have called me for a valid reason for their absence. The whole, however, gives the impression that many members of the government are absent. The Prime Minister is present to answer oral questions. Mr De Roover, I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u3	Mr President, thank you for showing us your talents, as if you were Madame Blanche.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u4	I know you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u5	You're very close. Mr President, it is not without surprise that we have noted the absence of a very large group of members of the government today. It's like they've got a bus trip planned. In the overview we have received, I read that questions to Minister De Backer are taken over by his colleague De Croo. Since Minister De Croo is absent, these questions are taken over by Minister De Block. I am glad that Mrs De Block is here, otherwise the questioner would almost have to answer his own questions. We are not very far away from the situation in which the Member of Parliament himself has to answer the questions asked. I understand the trade mission to China. Of course, it is not possible to come across from China for a moment before our plenary session, and I fully understand that. However, I do not wish to ignore the fact that the list of absences is a little too impressive to bring peace as a Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u6	Mr Verherstraeten also asked to speak in this connection.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u7	Mr President, I naturally understand Mr De Roover's point. However, several excellences are present on a foreign mission; that makes the number. In connection with Deputy Prime Minister Koen Geens and Minister Muylle, I can inform you that their absence is due to the funeral ceremony this afternoon after the death of the wife of a cabinet employee.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u8	That message had reached me, too. The mission in China is of course important. The regions are also involved, which has also led to the absence of a number of ministers in the regional parliaments in recent days. It is a lot and it is a coincidence, but you know, Madam Prime Minister, that this cannot be repeated. The government is in current affairs and it has a duty to appear in Parliament, especially at weekly Question Time. Mr Hedebouw, I think you agree with me.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u9	Mr President, I wish I could, but I can't. I do not think I remember from the last four or five years that there were ever so many absent ministers. I cannot get rid of the idea that there is a link between the current affairs and ministers who are very quickly absent from Parliament. I think that's a problem. It's not about two or three ministers. I think it's the first time half the government hasn't been around. If it is a political signal that the government has nothing to say, nothing to do and no more to decide, and there is no point in having a control debate on Thursday, say it right away! I believe that this is a bad signal that would be given because there are many social and democratic emergencies. Mr President, can you please convey a strong message from Parliament to demand the presence of ministers on Thursday afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u10	Mr Hedebouw, Mrs Wilmès has heard Parliament's message, which I share in part. There are mitigating circumstances, but that doesn't make up for everything. This cannot be repeated. This won't happen again.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u11	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, the International Convention on the Rights of the Child was celebrating its thirty years yesterday. Thirty years that children finally have their own rights because of their vulnerability. 30 years that Belgium is obliged to respect the rights of these children without distinction of any kind, regardless of their national or social origin or the status or legal status of their parents, and therefore to act in the best interests of these children. Unfortunately, however, the word holiday is not really appropriate, as I agree, since, as the Coordination of NGOs for the Rights of the Child (CODE) and the Delegate-General for the Rights of the Child pointed out yesterday, progress still needs to be made in this area by Belgium. In particular, they denounce structural inequalities between categories of children, stressing that migrant children in situations of great insecurity or in the face of justice – children who therefore need more support from the State – are neglected by that State, thereby depriving them of some of their fundamental rights. They point specifically to the following situations, which concern the federal level: abused children trapped in domestic violence, unaccompanied foreign minors, children detained in Syria who, for the vast majority, have between one and three years of age, children locked up in the family units of Centre 127bis and children whose images are exploited for child pornography. Unfortunately, this list is not exhaustive. Madam Prime Minister, what measures are you planning to take care of children who are victims of domestic violence or child pornography? Do you intend to end this family unit project at Centre 127bis? It is strongly criticized both by the Council of State and by the United Nations. Do you intend to make cosmetic arrangements for this project without answering the fundamental question of the confinement of children? Finally, I would like to hear from you about the double request made by the CODE. On the one hand, it calls for the protection of children's rights to be seen as a cross-cutting issue in all areas, as we have done in the area of gender mainstreaming and, on the other hand, for a single minister in your Government to be in charge of coordinating all measures relating to the rights of the child.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u12	As of next week, I hope you won't have a microphone at this point. The clock's coming. That will encourage you all to...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u13	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u14	I am so looking forward, Mr Calvo, to the fact that when you speak too long, your micro will automatically fail.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u15	Mr. President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we celebrated the thirty years of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. Was it really a party? On average, one in five children live below the poverty line in Belgium. An injustice that prevents children from living in dignity and participating in society: living in a heated housing, participating in a school trip, inviting friends to the house or simply going on vacation. The recent report of the General Delegate for the Rights of the Child recalls that poverty is the major insult to the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. What is the government doing to ensure that these fundamental rights are preserved? The right to health, for example, the right not to have to choose between seasonal shoes and a sufficiently filled spread box, the right to protection and well-being, the right for a baby to have his parents at his side to reassure him, love him and engage him in life with serenity. I am obviously referring to the conditions for access to paternity, maternity, co-parental and adoption leave. There is never a question of spending, but of investing in children. We have levers and we have to operate them for future generations! Colleagues, Prime Minister, this is not so much a question for a government in day-to-day business, I agree. It is an appeal to all members of this assembly, to all reasonable parties to commit themselves to the fundamental rights of children. It is comprehensive, structural and coordinated policies between all levels of government that will enable us to effectively combat child poverty. We have our share here. Madam Prime Minister, I am not asking you to solve everything right away, but I just want to take this opportunity to ask you to consider the recommendations made in various reports (General Delegate for the Rights of the Child, King Baudouin Foundation, UNICEF) on these social and fiscal issues that could reduce the causes of child insecurity.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u16	Mr President, I thank the two Members for taking the opportunity to ask a question on a very important subject. As it is vast, it probably deserves more than just a few minutes of discussion in plenary. I'm sure you won't disagree. The situation of children must indeed mobilize all of us. Parliaments and governments in that country must work together. I'll try to deal with a few points. Unfortunately, we will not be able to address them exhaustively. It is with great pleasure that I make an appointment with you to talk about it again. Among the targeted themes, there is obviously the fight against poverty. Under the previous legislature, we worked on it. This is how we have increased social integration income (RIS) eight times to help families and, therefore, children. We have increased it by 15% for people with a minor child. We have also worked in the social integration sector, raising RIS, investing in CPAS and providing food for food banks. In addition, the government has taken measures to catch up on the poverty line for isolated people and single-parent families – because we know the importance of this target group – for some 80 million euros in 2018 and 120 million euros in 2022. Of course, if we can consider these measures essential, we know that they are insufficient. The problem is still great. That is why it is important not only that we can put this discussion on the agenda, but also that a full-fledged government places this theme at the centre of its priorities. As mentioned above, this issue could be addressed across the board. I am not preempting what a future government could do, but I can assure you that if I can help make this theme even more present, I will be part of that team.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u17	Prime Minister, I hear the commitments that have been made by the government, particularly with regard to precariousness. It is true that this is a theme that we all care about and that is really very loud in our country. Nevertheless, I regret to say that there are still situations where the government has its responsibilities. Here are two specific examples. First, the specific reception of MENA is now undermined by the solutions that need to be taken urgently because closures have been imposed by your government. Secondly, the protection of abused children was also undermined by the government's budget cuts to the judiciary. Even yesterday, in the Committee on Justice, the public prosecutors told us how extremely difficult it is to take account of the specific situation of these children, particularly because of a lack of resources. I call on you, Madam Prime Minister, to ensure that the best interests of the child are seen as the thread of your policy, but also – I have not heard you on this point – to ensure that this policy is coordinated.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u18	Mrs Rohonyi, your time has expired. We have to close.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u19	Of course, Members will put this issue on the agenda, but as far as the coordination of these measures between levels of power is concerned, we have no room for manoeuvre. So I call on the federal government to really take responsibility for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u20	Prime Minister, I am pleased to hear that you are talking about investment and not about spending. I am pleased to hear that you are in favour of fiscal and social measures in this direction. I would remind you that we can put these issues on Parliament's agenda because the fight against child poverty deserves to rise above all others. Thank you very much, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u21	This is perfectly in the timing!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u22	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, this morning the federal prosecutor reported that another IS widow has escaped from the Kurdish camp Al-Hol and is on his way to Belgium. Yesterday we heard that two other infamous IS widows and their Belgian children managed to cross the border between Syria and Turkey. It is reported that they are still at large in Turkey. If they report or are arrested there, this means that Turkey already has six ISs from Belgium, whether in captivity or not, and that the Turkish government will soon send these terrorists back to Belgium. Among these six terrorists is someone of a particularly heavy caliber, who was convicted of manslaughter before his radicalisation here in our country. During his imprisonment in Turkey, this man remained faithful to his radical hatred ideology. He even threatened fellow prisoners because they had distanced themselves from IS ideology. We were told in the press that he was also involved in the execution of a Brussels imam in Syria. Madam Prime Minister, has the Turkish government informed the government? If so, how long has the government been aware of these facts? The two IS widows currently residing in Turkey were sentenced last week by the Antwerp appeal court to five years in prison for their membership of a terrorist organisation. The process of the IS widow who escaped from the Kurdish camp and is on his way to Belgium is still ongoing. What will be the procedure when they arrive? What will happen to the other IS terrorist, of a particularly heavy caliber, who may soon be extradited by Turkey? How many Belgian IS terrorists may have disappeared under the radar and can they still appear here in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u23	Madam Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Ankara warned: from 11 November Turkey would unilaterally return the jihadists of Daesh as well as the families to their country of origin. Two women, of Belgian nationality, Tatiana Wielandt and Bouchra Abouallal, widows of Daesh fighters, each accompanied by three children from one to eight years of age, are currently reported to be in Turkey. Both women were sentenced to five years in prison and a fine of 8,000 euros for participating in terrorist activities. They were sentenced by the Antwerp Court of Appeal on 30 October 2019. Their husbands, belonging to Sharia4Belgium, were sentenced by default in Belgium in 2015 and died in Syria. Madam Prime Minister, can you confirm officially that these two women and their six children are in Turkey, under the control of the Turkish authorities? In this case, will a concerted procedure with the Turkish authorities, such as extradition, expulsion or repatriation, be put in place to ensure their return to Belgium? It is assumed that the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office will obviously request the extradition of the two women sentenced by default to serve their sentences in Belgium. Madam Prime Minister, we are also obviously sensitive to the humanitarian situation in the refugee camps in Syria. Child Focus states that in recent months, five Belgian newborns have died in refugee camps. Do you confirm this information? What is your analysis of this sensitive situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. According to a document transmitted by OCAM on 20 November, 53 Belgian minors under the age of 12 are said to be in camps for refugees or displaced persons in Syria. The information referred to by the Director of Child Focus is known from the Department of Foreign Affairs. Three deaths occurred in March. In July and August, two children reportedly died in the camps. The Department of Foreign Affairs does not have precise information on the circumstances of these two deaths, while it has good information for the first three. No official confirmation has taken place. Our position on the return of children remains unchanged. In principle, as far as possible, return aid is granted to children under the age of 10. The records of children over the age of 10 are processed on a case-by-case basis, in consultation with the intelligence and security services. Moreover, as you know, Belgium still defends the FTF's judgment in the region where they (or they) have committed offences, a position also defended by other European partners facing the same problem. With regard to repatriation, we are faced with major obstacles, and we must not forget that. First, we do not have a military presence or a diplomatic presence on the spot. We have to deal with our partners and interlocutors on the spot. The Kurds demand that the return of the children be done with the mothers. As I have just told you, the Kurds' demand runs counter to the line set by the government. Several FTF women also do not accept the return of their children to Belgium in their absence. We have the same dialogue with NGOs, who are reluctant to return without mothers. As you know, the Turkish authorities have announced that they will return foreign FTFs to their country of origin on Turkish territory. The Turkish and Belgian authorities are in constant contact. We know that four Belgian women may be expelled. Yesterday morning, the Foreign Affairs Department learned that two of them, with their six children, would be in Turkey. The exact location is unknown. The federal court has stated that once the Turkish authorities have officially confirmed that these women are in Turkey, they will request their extradition because they have been sentenced to prison in Belgium. According to the information provided by the OCAD, a total of nine women FTFs, including six women convicted of terrorism in Belgium by default, and 12 children under the age of 12, fled refugee camps or camps for displaced persons in the Syrian-Iraq zone. Our intelligence and security services have been fully mobilized to locate those people. A procedure has been established for Turkey to ensure a controlled return of the FTF's detained by the Turkish authorities to Belgium. This procedure thus allows cooperation between our two countries. An assessment of the threat is carried out for each FTF member. As soon as they arrive in Belgium, they are arrested by the police forces and the Justice Department.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u25	Colleagues, I'm worried. I am deeply concerned about the safety of our people, of our children. How does the government explain that situation to our people? The IS widows deliberately chose to travel to Syria, twice and against any advice. Worse still, they also participated in the atrocities there. The Flemish interest keeps repeating that the government must listen to the people. Don't ever let any IS terrorist into our country again. Those terrorists must be tried and held in the region where they committed their crimes. It's the only way we can protect our people.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u26	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. In this highly sensitive issue, humanitarian elements are important and I am pleased to hear that you are taking this into account. But they must not make us forget the safety of all our citizens. In addition to the ethics of conviction, there is the ethics of responsibility. I note that Child Focus referred to old elements and that OCAM performs a constant screening. Prime Minister, I know that we can count on your government to continue a discreet but consistent assessment to ensure the best interests of the general public.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u27	Madam Minister, over the last five years, 20% of Belgian companies have been the victims of a cyber attack. Cyber attacks have become the most popular form of fraud. The average loss of an affected company in 2019 was 200,000 euros. That's 30% more than last year. The number of cases has fallen but the amounts are increasing. The companies are aware of this and are taking action. Everyone knows, however, that the criminals are not sitting still either. Today, the FPS Treasury warned against massive phishing. With text messages, crooks try to get people to pay off a so-called debt at the IRS. The crooks are also becoming more and more professional. They have real call centers to clearly guide the hacked victims in transferring the money to make their files available again. Entrepreneurs often do not know what situation they are in and want to move forward as quickly as possible, which often means that they are making payments. As an entrepreneur one then feels powerless. One can take measures, but if something like this happens, one also looks at the other side, at the government. What can the government do to address this at national and international level? The FPS Economy already sensitizes the companies. There's a cybersecurity scan and tips are given. Furthermore, there is international cooperation in a project against ransomware that wants to give a key to free files. Measures are therefore already being taken, but there is still a lot of work to be done. The government and business organisations are raising awareness among businesses. Businesses go along with this, but the measures they are given are often not clear, especially for small businesses. We must have the necessary knowledge and resources to cope with this. That's often a problem. Those who have done the damage must also be tracked down and punished. Madam Minister, what efforts is the government making to raise awareness of our businesses so that they can be even better protected? Do the companies find their way to the measures provided for? Are the measures effective for both small and large enterprises? Are they satisfied with the offer? The second important aspect is the criminal follow-up of cyber fraud in companies. Are these criminals sufficiently tracked and punished? Are there any figures of the penalties and results of the search approach?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u28	Mrs Verhelst, cybercrime is indeed an important phenomenon. The process changes, the techniques are refined. At the same time, we live in a society that is in the midst of a digital transition, which is increasingly connected and digitized, which also increases the opportunities for cyber attacks. Belgium has become aware of the threats, dangers and risks and is therefore developing an appropriate prevention policy. The Centre for Cybersecurity Belgium (CCB) was founded with the 2014 KB, which also defined the assignments. Since its creation, the CCB has carried out several actions with the CERT and its partners. These actions target both the private and the public sector and focus on three strategic objectives: safe and secure cyberspace, optimal security and protection of critical infrastructure and the development of its own cybersecurity capacity for an independent security policy and an appropriate response to possible security incidents. The CCB has already implemented several concrete actions this year. For example, it has developed its annual awareness programme with the emphasis on the human element in the phenomenon of phishing. The CCB has published numerous guides and opinions on its website, based on international standards and in particular on the SMEs and IT responsibilities of companies. We know there are still problems. Efforts will therefore certainly still have to be made. The CCB has also made an early warning system platform operational, making it possible to receive the main cyber threats to Belgium in an open source. The CCB also works for the federal administrations. Although progress remains to be made, Belgium was ranked fifth among 28 EU Member States in June 2019 according to cybersecurity specialist BitSight, while we were still 11th in 2018. For our government, as you have seen, cyber security is a priority. Given the challenges, it seems essential to me that this stays the same in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u29	Mr President, it is clear that this is being dealt with effectively. I'd like to hear something else. We are being sensitized and much is being done. I hope that there will also be a clear awareness among criminals, with clear, visible penalties, which will scare people into doing something like this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u30	Minister, Belgium has once again been guided by the European Commission with great distinction and congratulations. That's not the first time. Each budget for the last five years has been guided by the European Commission. This happened in 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, and now in 2019. The regions are increasingly budgeting. This morning, the Standard quite rightly wrote that a senior official of the European Commission is concerned about all these budgeting. The parties are already ready to continue to apply the same logic of budgeting. My coiffeur went to Utrecht recently, coiffeur Hoffman from the Stationstraat in Jabbeke.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u31	How long has that been?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u32	I will not mention his price list now, otherwise my speaking time will be too short. He came back from Utrecht, and made the remark what a fantastic city Utrecht is, with wide bike paths, everything clean, everything in order, as well as the infrastructure in order. And he asked me what that's like here in Flanders. Flanders has been on the welfare axis of southern England, the West Netherlands, southern Germany and northern Italy since the Middle Ages. The Netherlands, on the other hand, has a government debt of around 50%, half of the Belgian government debt. The Netherlands has 10 billion left, we are 10 billion short. So my question, also on behalf of my coiffeur, is: how can this be done in the Netherlands and in Belgium? When will Belgium finally leave the Club Med group and step away from mediocrity?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u33	Mr Bogaert, you may remain here. After all, that is your regulatory right.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u34	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u35	I would definitely like to get to know your coiffeur. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u36	Mr Bogaert, I have nothing against your coiffeur, but if you ask those questions, you must also ask yourself what you have been doing here all these years. Mr Minister, I heard this Wednesday that the European Commission had delivered its opinion on the draft national budget plans submitted to it last October. As far as our country is concerned, it is a comprehensive document that contains the budget proposals of each entity. I would also point out that the federal part was developed with unchanged policy because of the context that we know and talk about here week after week. According to the European Commission, this policy unchanged project presents a risk of non-compliance with the Stability and Growth Pact. The same is true for seven other European countries, namely France, Spain, Italy, Portugal, Slovenia, Slovakia and Finland. The Commission has also indicated that we will have to submit an updated draft budget plan once we are in a position to do so, that is, when we have a full-fledged federal government. As I said, the Belgian project includes a federated entity component and a federal component. Mr Minister, in its analysis of the draft Belgian budget plan, the European Commission points out that some Regions have a special approach to the treatment of investments. Could you give us your point of view on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to my hairdresser next week and I am a little afraid to hear what she will tell me. I hope she's not as severe as your hairdresser. The European Commission's opinion on Belgium's draft budget for 2020 is no surprise. In its letter of 22 October, the Commission pointed out the risk associated with this draft budget. This is no surprise either, since the draft budget, as the Commission points out, has been drawn up with unchanged policy, i.e. without incorporating the measures necessary to comply with European rules. Finally, it is not surprising as the budgets of the regions and the Communities tend to deteriorate. If the Commission puts us in the group of countries that constitute a risk or non-compliance, it is clear that it has not yet taken any special measures with regard to Belgium. Indeed, the Commission, in accordance with the code of conduct on the Stability and Growth Pact, reminded Belgium that it would have to deliver an updated budget as soon as possible once the government had been formed. It shall request this at the latest one month before the vote on the 2020 budget. This budget will have to be in line with the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact. This reminder from the Commission confirms the urgency of rapidly forming a government. This is essential if the necessary measures are to be taken quickly to remedy the deterioration of the deficit. This deficit is partly due to the slowdown in economic growth and the continued increase in expenditure on pensions and disability benefits. As far as the Communities and the Regions are concerned, the European Commission once again emphasises the particular approach adopted by them, namely the non-accounting of certain investment expenditure in their deficit. As a reminder, these rules – which have been validated by all European Parliaments – make it clear that all expenditure must be included in the calculation of the deficit. In other words, investment expenditure must therefore be well accounted for in the calculation of the deficit for the year 2020. The only possibility for the Regions is to use the flexibility clause, which allows the Commission to deviate, under certain conditions, from the budgetary path imposed by the Commission. On this point, the current analysis indicates that Belgium does not meet the eligibility conditions for this clause. With regard to the investment clause, Belgium had already proposed adjustments which unfortunately could not be the subject of consensus.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u38	Thank you, Minister. If I understand correctly, we must be careful not to be shaved by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u39	Mr President, I note the Minister's defence that it is no surprise. Minister, I agree with you, it is indeed no surprise. I will remember that for when one of my children has a tube and comes to say: it's no surprise. It isn't. We have already agreed on this point, but we still have to make the positive points. This is about compliance. Belgium's not in there. We also need to take a serious look at it. Whatever coalition has the honour of running this country in the future, as far as our group is concerned, that budget will have to be serious. A budget is not a piece of paper and should not therefore be treated as such.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u40	Mr Bogaert, I can reassure you that the management of public funds is a serious thing and we have shown that we have always taken our responsibilities to do so, including to identify new policies. Minister, thank you for your answers. The effort will have to continue with the consolidation of public finances. We have every interest in being able to do so as quickly as possible with a full-fledged government. I mean that where governments have already formed, responsibilities will also have to be taken to make some adjustments within the framework of the Stability Pact and the standards of growth.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u41	Your question will be answered by Minister De Block.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u42	Madam Minister, the number of cases of aggression against the Brussels fire department increased by eight-fold between 2014 and 2019. The Brussels firefighter recently said that the firefighter feels like a punching bag. The day before yesterday, a MUG doctor in Yellow was attacked with a knife. Last week, the Antwerp city cleanup sounded the alarm to complain about the increasing aggression. In Kortrijk a number of ambulancemen had to flee because they were threatened with a knife. Also in Antwerp a young ambulanceman was attacked on Monday morning, resulting in seven days' work incompetence. No less than six aid workers a day come into contact with aggression. In 2018, almost 2,400 cases of violence against aid workers were reported. Most of this happens in cities such as Antwerp, Ghent and Brussels. It's like some people have developed an allergy to uniforms, a young victim sums it up. Being poorly paid as an ambulanceman and then getting a beating is anything but attractive. For the Flemish interest, it is clear that violence against aid workers must always be prosecuted. Hence a number of questions, Madam Secretary. What concrete measures will finally be taken to combat violence against the aid and order services? Will these measures also apply to other professions, such as bailiffs and parking guards, which also often come into contact with violence? Are there any concrete plans to allow emergency services to use, for example, pepper spray as a defence weapon? Has there been any contact with the Minister of Justice with a view to introducing stricter and effective penalties for those who commit violence against the emergency services?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u43	I congratulate you, Mr Verreyt, on your maiden speech in Parliament. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u44	Mr President, as I have said, I will reply instead of Minister De Crem. The Minister reiterates what he said in the plenary session of 7 November about violence against police officers, all aid and order services and against all professions of general interest. That is and remains absolutely unacceptable. The Minister also continues to stress the need to prevent any form of impunity. The new Criminal Code of the Minister of Justice, for which hearings have already been initiated in the Chamber, will provide for severe penalties for acts of violence against persons performing public functions. In connection with the police, numerous measures were introduced to ensure maximum protection of police personnel. These measures shall be consistent, inter alia, with the follow-up to the reports of the P Committee. For example, the armament of the operational framework has been expanded and strengthened, bodycams have been introduced, pilot projects have been launched for the use of power surge weapons and various training measures have been taken. All this has been complemented by specific tools designed to better accommodate police people who are victims of violence during the performance of their duties, such as the creation of a stress team and the launch of a website where police people who are victims of violence can find useful information. The High Council for the Training of Members of the Public Emergency Services has approved, among other things, training aimed at providing firefighters with the necessary tools to learn how to deal with situations of aggression, for example by learning preventive and defensive techniques. The FPS Home Affairs also regularly sits around the table with other professional groups on this subject. For example, the General Directorate for Safety and Prevention recently participated in the drafting of a plan to combat aggression against general practitioners and pharmacists. There are no initiatives to equip emergency services with pepper spray, fire department, civil protection. The services are not a questioning party either, because there is a risk that aggression will increase. After all, when it is known that aid workers also have pepper spray, the perpetrators will most likely adjust their modus operandi accordingly. So far, my colleague, the answer given to me by the Minister of the Interior and Security.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u45	Madam Secretary, thank you for your words on behalf of the Minister for the Interior. I thank you, on the one hand, for taking part in the story on the concerns of the policemen, on the other, and I regret that you do not speak any more bold words for those other professional categories. The violence against uniform professions, whether it be a voluntary ambulance or a police inspector, is not solved by remaining dear mothers. This is not solved with yet another reprimand or community service. This violence is totally unacceptable to the Flemish interest. Aid and order services such as police, fire brigade, civil protection, MUG doctors and paramedics do their job in often difficult circumstances, and then they are still being countered by individuals who treat them badly and try to prevent their work. The government must send a stronger signal that such facts cannot be tolerated. An effective and active investigation and prosecution policy of the public prosecutors is necessary. With our legislative proposal, in addition to the proposal that the government is preparing, we want to make it clear in the Criminal Code that those who commit violence against emergency services do so under aggravating circumstances. We also want to prevent the perpetrators from getting away with community service.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u46	Madam Secretary, friends of mine have a son with autism. Every week he gets specialized care in a rehabilitation hospital. The invoice is in the thousands of euros. Until now, these costs will come to an end once the maximum amount of the invoice has been reached. It won't be like that in a month. Not only my friends, but also 80,000 other people are at risk of having to pay extra health costs out of their own pocket from 1 January 2020, including those with chronic illness, including those with long-term illness. Flanders has been responsible for these costs for five years. So far, there has been a transitional rule. In those five years Flanders should have drawn up its own rules. That didn't happen. Minister Beke is playing the ball back to you now. He says he's written to you several times about that. He says you have to take care of it. You're saying this isn't right. Conclusion: 80,000 people are the victims of a ping-pong game between you and Flanders, Madam Secretary. We believe that you should take an initiative to extend the transitional rule by one year. Is that what you're gonna do? When are you going to do that? I think you've got another month.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u47	Madam Secretary, from 1 January to 600 euros, 80,000 patients in need of care risk having to pay more out of their own pockets. What's the cause of that? The sixth state reform. Rehabilitation in the rest homes has been regionalised, so the costs for patients are no longer eligible for federal protection measures such as the maximum invoice. What a Kafkaian state. What we do ourselves, we do better. That's what the N-VA said. Well, you guys better start explaining that to the patients. Then what do we learn from the mutualities today? We are told that for 13,000 patients the refund of the brake charge can increase to EUR 300, that 7% of the people with the status of a person with a chronic condition risk losing it. The healthcare gap for chronically ill can also be lost and costs can thus rise to EUR 624. The penalty is that we have known that since 2011. Over the last few days, we've seen a black game between the federal government and the Flemish government. Madam Secretary, the patients deserve better than that. We're running out of time. What concrete measures will be taken so that these 80,000 patients are not in the cold? Isn't that also proof of the bankruptcy of the splitting urge? Is it not time to think about the re-federalisation of certain powers?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u48	It's gonna give us a little bit of state reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u49	The next questioner will agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u50	That's why I'm saying it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u51	Colleagues, the maximum bill has been created to assist vulnerable patients and to enable affordable care. Indeed, thanks to the sixth state reform, a number of refunds have been transferred to Flanders. Indeed, Mrs Merckx, what we do ourselves, we do better. We are absolutely convinced that the sixth state reform is a bit crooked. We therefore want total competence. Then we can do better. Then we can do it ourselves. Madam Secretary, you have drawn up a reform law guaranteeing that patients could receive their pennies from the maximum invoice until 31 December. The Flemish Government therefore contributes to paying the maximum invoice. The law also states that one of the Communities may apply for the extension. I understand that Minister Vandeurzen wrote a letter in April and that Minister Beke also wrote a letter requesting that extension. Madam Secretary, I have three specific questions for you. Did you get those letters? Did you answer that? Have you taken initiatives as a result? Do the Länder pay their contributions correctly for Flanders, or are you experiencing difficulties, and is that one of the reasons why no steps have been taken? Is it still feasible to provide a solution for those vulnerable patients from January, so that they no longer have to be in uncertainty?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u52	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today, patients with significant health problems, and therefore significant health costs, benefit from what is called the maximum amount to be charged. The principle is simple: as soon as their health costs reach a certain amount, they are reimbursed in full for additional costs. The system simply prevents these patients from seeing their health care costs explode. That's very good. But maybe it'll hurt tomorrow if we don't do anything. Why? Because the sixth reform of the state went through it, and a series of care was transferred to the federated entities. I'm thinking of rehabilitation and revalidation. Thus, as of next January, the costs paid by patients in this context will no longer be included in the famous maximum to be charged. As a result, patients will see their care bill explode. They will also find it more difficult to obtain the status and package of chronically ill patients. I am thinking in particular of elderly people, in nursing homes, autists, hearing impaired people, people with neurological problems. Madam Minister, it is of course urgent that a solution be found, so as not to penalise people who are already vulnerable by the disease. Is there currently a solution on the table to solve this problem? Are you considering cooperation agreements with the competent authorities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. I fully agree, of course, that patients should not suffer from the consequences of the sixth state reform, nor from the fact that the Länder have not taken any initiatives regarding their new powers. Flanders, where there is a different regime for rehabilitation hospitals, has had five years, Mrs Depoorter, but well, it is what it is. I am not playing ping-pong, Mrs Jiroflée, but I am looking for solutions. In any case, we are now being called upon urgently. The reason for this is to look at the disinformation because of the socialist mutualities, which should not be surprised. The transfer of people and resources to the Länder took place five years ago, but still the federal government is still trying to get paid. I do not think that this is the correct interpretation of the federalism of cooperation as it was intended to be. Nevertheless, solutions are being sought. For the maximum invoice, the situation is actually regulated by the special law itself. On 31 December, the transitional arrangements under the sixth state reform will be terminated, including the maximum invoicing for the reimbursement of benefits in kind falling within the competence of the Länder. For a good understanding, I would like to clarify that the problem is limited to the personal shares for the transferred rehabilitation agreements in Flanders and for the beneficiaries who reside in a rehabilitation hospital in Flanders, in particular the G and SP institutions. The Special Act did not provide for any transitional measures for the granting of chronic disease status. The cooperation agreements on chronic diseases were concluded after the introduction of the special law. The second vertical protocol that was concluded in the Interministerial Public Health Commission last May mentions that "patient law is guaranteed as long as the federated entities do not change the financial regulation on transferred competences". I expect that the various policy measures at the level of federated entities, such as personalised funding in Flanders, will in the short term discriminate between patients according to their place of residence. In other words, there may be asymmetrical arrangements in the Länder, given the competence, but we do not want patients to suffer. This is not desirable because federal health care insurance must be the same for all insured persons. In order to continue this protection measure against high personal shares of the maximum invoicing and other health care costs related to the statute for chronic diseases for rightholders, the Communities had to use the full power and the budgetary resources transferred to make their own arrangements. That hasn't happened in those five years. It can't be done by January 1st either. Writing letters is one thing, providing solutions another. A solution has therefore been proposed both for the maximum invoicing and for the granting of the status for chronic diseases. It is integrated into the proposal on the healthcare budget 2020. This proposal will be on the Council of Ministers for tomorrow. The proposal will therefore be on the table on 22 November. I can tell you that this will give the Communities another year of extension of the transitional period, which started on 1 July 2014. I hope they will use it usefully this year. People say it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u54	Madam Minister, the Socialist Mutualities have indeed raised the alarm. And it's a good thing, because that way, most patients' associations have been alerted by now. I'm glad you're saying you're working on a solution and that it's on the table. I don't care if you solve it as you say, or put your knee on Mr. Beke's chest. I don't care how, but fix it! Otherwise, the patients will suffer once again. I hope that your solution will indeed be accepted tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u55	Mr President, Minister, I hear that under pressure from the mutants you want to develop certain measures. However, they shall remain valid only for one year. So in a year's time, we can stand here again. What an inefficient state reform! How many hours do we have to talk about that? How many ministers still have to sit together on that? There are nine Health Ministers in our country, but there is still no solution for patients by 2020 and so the problem may reappear. What we need is a strong social security system, which is and remains federal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u56	Mr President, Madam Minister, allow me to point out that you are referring to something that has not yet been approved. I therefore hope that you will be the solution for the patients who will obtain approval tomorrow. I would just like to point out the following. You note that Flanders has had five years. You had ten months to reply to Minister Vandeurzen's letter. You can argue that this is just a letter. However, the law literally states that an extension can simply be requested by letter and so writing a letter is sufficient. We are faced here with a situation in which Flanders gives the money and you thrive. You don't do anything with the money or you don't want to do anything with it. After all, you claim that Flanders does not have to give that money or that Flanders would make you pay the money. So Flanders is giving the money and you're dreading it. Our patients, who need the maximum bill, live in uncertainty. It is that uncertainty that we want to avoid.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u57	Mr President, Madam Minister, as of January this year, it is several thousand people who could see their care expenses increase by several hundred euros. Of course, this is not nothing when we know that at present one in five people postpone this care because of a lack of financial resources. The FAM mechanism is essential to limit spending and ensure access to health care for these patients who find themselves facing significant health problems. For my group, of course, it would be totally unacceptable for the sixth reform of the State to undermine this system, this guarantee, for simple questions of administrative disorder. Minister, please let us quickly get around the table to find a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u58	Minister, Post Points are businesses that offer for sale bpost products such as stamps and offer the opportunity to send or receive recommended items and packages. These Post Points thus provide part of the public service mission which binds bpost to the Federal State, in particular through a management contract. We learned that when the Post Points were installed in the shops, bpost paid a package of about 500 euros per month to the merchant. In 2014, we went from 500 to 166 euros. In September 2019, this amount fell to zero. This means that the very existence of these outlets seems to me to be in danger. According to bpost, this concept remains profitable through the sale of products. This is probably the case for large cities but not for small villages in rural areas. Minister, what is the government's position on this development? Are we going to a pure and simple deletion of these Post Points – which would be harmful to the population? If so, do you have alternatives to provide the public service of bpost?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u59	Mr Arens, in response to your question today, bpost provided the following information. First of all, the Post Points market is usually composed of collection points and mailing points. He has undergone significant changes in recent years. You will have noticed that the volume of packages sent and received has increased significantly in recent times due to the development of online commerce. The volumes of packages processed by Post Points have also increased considerably. In order to adapt to this development, the bpost company has put in place a rate adapted to this volume increase. Thus, since 1 September, this rate has been based on the number of operations carried out by the post office. In addition, bpost informs me that due to the growth in packet volumes, the average variable remuneration received by Post Points is increasing from year to year. In addition, this adaptation was accompanied by an important communication with regard to the Post Points. Finally, bpost indicates that the remuneration received by Post Points for the processing of a package is significantly higher than the market practice for the same operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u60	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. It is true that bpost communicates very well. I don't think they make the difference between Post Points located in large cities and Post Points located in rural areas. I urge you to convey to bpost the message that the rural world still exists and that it will fight to survive!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u61	Mr. Secretary, I would like to talk to you today about our pension policy. Last Tuesday I played with two enthusiastic garbagemen, Stijn and Mustafa, as part of the week of the garbage collector. I walked behind the garbage truck and we dragged and loaded 406 cans of green waste that morning. That's how we dragged 6.7 tons. Minister, I can assure you that at the end of the day I felt that way in my joints and muscles. I can therefore perfectly imagine why three out of four workers have indicated that they are not prepared to work for up to 65 years. That's what a study by Securex showed. Moreover, 63 % indicated that it could not last up to 65 years. I would particularly like to recommend to the right-wing politicians that this kind of work experience be gained, because then perhaps we would no longer be adopting antisocial laws. The work of a garbage collector cannot be done up to 65 years. That is not feasible, let alone that we should do this for up to 67 years, because then every profession becomes too difficult. In addition, you have also intervened over the past five years with regard to the amount of your pension. Workers and civil servants are now working longer for less pensions when we already have the lowest pensions in Western Europe. Mr. Lester, how do you assess the results of this investigation? They are, after all, contrary to the policy you have pursued over the last five years. The study also explicitly states that obliging people to work longer does not help. Would it not therefore be logical for us to reverse this undemocratic measure from 2014 and bring the retirement age back to 65 years, as has happened in Canada, Poland and Croatia? When will our lowest pensions, the lowest in Western Europe, finally be raised?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u62	Mr President, the only new element brought forward by this latest study by Securex is a sharp increase in the willingness of younger workers to work for up to 65 years. Moreover, I note that 20% of workers think they can work up to the statutory retirement age and that 17% even think they can work after the legal age. In 2014, when I took office as Minister of Pensions, only 10 % worked effectively up to 65 years. All experts believe that it is necessary to extend the careers in Belgium in order to safeguard the sustainability of our pension system. The rate of activity of workers aged 55-64 has improved considerably since the beginning of this legislature. Indeed, it rose from 45.1 % in 2014 to 52.6 % in 2018. However, there is still a long way to go if we want to reach the average of the OECD countries, which currently stands at 61.8 %. I have always indicated that it is not enough to raise the statutory or early retirement age. It is also necessary to encourage older workers to continue their activities on a voluntary basis. That is why I have submitted to Parliament a bill introducing a half-time pension with the aim of allowing workers to start their careers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u63	You were talking about that bill in your capacity as a Member of Parliament, I presume?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u64	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u65	You have the floor for your reply, Mr De Vuyst.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u66	Thank you for your answer, Minister, but I find your interpretations of the study of Securex peculiar. We are drawing very different conclusions. We wonder when you will finally listen to the working population in Belgium. People say they can't work anymore. That's what the study shows. I've been there myself, with the garbage collectors. The physical burden is high. That work is too hard to do up to 65 years, let alone 67 years. That's almost impossible. When will you listen to the population, which is undemocratic measure - the measure is not supported by the population - cut back and reduce the age to 65 years? You say that the budget is not feasible and that we would be heading for a pension apocalypse, but that is not true either. The Study Committee on Ageing has confirmed this. Figures have also been published that show that we are not heading for an apocalypse at all. You did not say anything about the level of pensions. We will come back early next year with our legislative proposal, our civil law, a social demand, which will be endorsed by more than 100,000 workers. It will be submitted here to achieve a minimum net pension of 1,500 euros. The law will be discussed here in the Chamber next year and everyone will have to speak out on it. We're looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u67	Minister, at the beginning of the week, the Road Safety Institute Vias published the Riden report under the influence of alcohol. Unfortunately, that report contains a lot of bad news. The number of drivers caught driving under the influence during weekly nights has tripled in ten years. During a week's night, one in ten controlled drivers drank too much. During weekend nights, one out of eight controlled drivers drank too much. The general conclusion of the report is actually very harsh and confronting: the number of Belgians caught driving under the influence has not fallen in the last ten years, despite all the PDO campaigns. Just so we're clear, I have no problem with a party now and then. I have no problem with people enjoying a good glass of wine and a few pints, but then don't get in the car. Whoever does that takes irresponsible risks. There are 150 deaths per year on our Belgian roads just because of alcohol in traffic. That's three a week! Minister, I expect you to acknowledge that there is a persistent and deadly mentality problem that we are not facing. I expect action to be taken. I understand that the government is in current affairs and that you cannot do so alone, but we can also take responsibility, ladies and gentlemen. When I look at the figures in the report, as far as I am concerned, the arguments are to wait any longer to introduce zero tolerance. We urgently need to agree that driving and drinking do not go together, never. Let us choose clarity and let us anchor it in the law.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u68	Minister, there were 12 road deaths this week, and when we meet again next week, 12 more. And like 600 a year. One hundred and fifty of them, as many as the number of Members of Parliament in this hemisphere, die as a result of alcohol in traffic. We have known for some time now that Belgium is among the worst students in the class compared to the other European countries. In a survey, 20 percent of the Belgians say that she drove the car drunk in the last month. That is almost double the European average. At the beginning of this week, Vias said that three times more drunk drivers drive a car a week than ten years ago, that the largest increase in age is from 26 to 29 year olds. Of all people who grew up with the BOB campaigns. Let us be clear, there must be a change of attitude. Drinking and driving don't go together. Drinking and driving never go together. As a government, we have the tools to get that behavior change. Mr Minister, a few months ago you replied to a written question that the measures already taken, together with the increased number of checks, would ensure that Belgium would achieve its road safety objectives. Well, today turns out it's not. So I have two questions for you. I know that things cannot be resolved in current cases, but this is too important. Firstly, what additional measures will you take? Secondly, more specifically, the end-of-year period is coming. Traditionally a period with more traffic victims. What will you do to stop that?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u69	Mr Buyst, I would like to congratulate you on your maiden speech. Bravo, Bravo, [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u70	Mr President, Minister, the previous speakers have already raised a number of points and mentioned a number of figures. It must be said that in the last few months there have been a number of bad signals in the field of road safety which must be of concern to us. In 2014, we agreed ambitious targets. A whole range of measures have also been taken and a number of steps have been taken. We have adapted and strengthened rules; we have made controls more efficient and increased the number of checks; we have strengthened the punishment, especially for the heavy cases and for the repeaters, and we have extended the scope of the alcohol lock. The figures were moving in the right direction, but unfortunately, as the previous speakers have said, we have received some disturbing signals in recent years. We are not in danger of achieving the agreed 2020 targets. The road safety barometer from a few weeks ago increased for the first half of 2019 rather than the target reduction in the number of road victims. In addition, there was Vias' national behavioral measurement, which was just mentioned by the other questioners. Mrs Buyst just quoted the figures: 12 road deaths a week. Those are figures that must stop us and encourage us to take action. In such cases, we politicians tend to invent, adapt and tighten rules. Most of the time, however, we forget to look at the implementation and application of these rules and do not work sufficiently on the ground. That is what we must focus on now, Minister. I am following the case of the police judges, who have just called for a period of silence and rest for the application of a new traffic rule. In recent years, there have been so many changes in traffic legislation that police judges have asked for and longed for a short period of rest, to get the application operational and about to make our traffic safer. Mr. Secretary, the investigation was clear. The age group that emerged from the research as poorly scored is surprising. That raises questions. The question to you is therefore the following. How do you see better application and control of the current traffic rules?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Vias Transport Institute has indeed proposed its three-yearly behavior measurement. The conclusion is clear. Since the beginning of the measurements in 2003, the overall result of people who indicate that they drive drunk has never been so low. That must also be dared to be said. For the weekends, the behavioral measurements are indeed problematic. The answer to this is even more checks during weekends, a police authority, and even more sensitisation, a competence of the Regions. In a few weeks' time, the winter PDO campaign will start, but to quote literally from the Vias press release: "The vast majority of the population understands that there are dangers when you drink and drive." That is the real conclusion of this measurement. For those small but clearly hard core of drunken traffic criminals, the government has taken action. There are now stricter penalties for recidivists and different alcohol locks are imposed and installed every week. No announcements, but facts. Some take this measurement, which shows, in general terms, the lowest levels of intoxication over the last 15 years, once again to demand zero tolerance for all. Thus, the average 98 % that does comply with the rules is endorsed. That's not my point of view. I have introduced stricter penalties, I am asking for more controls and awareness and I have advocated zero tolerance for new drivers, based on scientific arguments that clearly show that the combination of inexperience and alcohol is even more dangerous than just alcohol. Fourteen other EU Member States are already doing this, but unfortunately no majority was found in this Chamber. I repeat that proposal. Next year, the next Minister and his federal and regional colleagues will organise a new State General for Road Safety. I therefore hope that everyone will make a very active contribution to the substantive preparations.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u72	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Of course, the chances must be increased, of course, the penalties for recidivists must be strict enough and, of course, those penalties must also be applied. However, I also ask for political courage here to opt for zero tolerance for alcohol. Four years ago, the Chamber decided to introduce zero tolerance for professional drivers. Now, if driving and drinking cannot go hand in hand with drivers of a taxi, bus or truck, why should it be possible for other drivers? Colleagues, driving and drinking never go together, for no one.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u73	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The measures you mention are indeed positive, but not sufficient. The current figures do not lie; these figures tell us that we are not yet there. Prevention campaigns are and will continue to be important, but more controls need to be carried out, the chance of taking action must increase. Stricter penalties for recidivists must be carried out. There must also be more clarity. Let us introduce zero tolerance. I therefore call on all federal parties to put road safety first again. In doing so, all taboos must perish. Drinking and driving don't go together. Let us make sure that the coming end-of-year period, classically a time of cozy togetherness and parties, is a celebration for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u74	Mr President, I would like to add my thanks to the Minister for his reply. Colleagues, the problem is not with drivers with a promille below 0.5. I think we need to get away from the slogans and easy solutions. We must take this debate to the root and tackle the problem. Vias' first recommendation, as a conclusion from the study, is that more and more efficient controls are needed. If we include the group with a promille under 0.5, we lose efficiency. This measure therefore runs counter to the recommendations for addressing the problem. More controls and more efficient penalties, that is very important here. Colleagues, recently the infringements have been recorded in databases. Perhaps it is time for us to take up the 1989 law 30 years ago and see how we can implement it, for example, to deal with alcohol in traffic. It's about the driver's license with points.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u75	Mr Minister, yesterday we received the CEOs from SNCB and Infrabel in the Committee on Mobility. Not only did MEPs have questions to the CEOs. The CEOs had questions for us, too. In particular, they are calling for additional resources to cope with passenger growth. Mr Lallemand, the CEO of Infrabel, openly raised the question of whether it is socially responsible to keep railway lines open that few travellers use. This is, of course, a fair question, but should we not see this earlier in the wider debate on our railways as part of a global mobility policy? The CEO of SNCB might have had an even more important question for us as politicians: what is the vision of mobility in this country? A good solution is a journey from start to finish over the different modes of transport, in close cooperation with the various operators and preferably in a global tariff plan. Such a vision is, by definition, interfederal. Mobility does not stop at the regional border and does not limit itself to a single level of competence. Minister, in the past, you have already made attempts to achieve an inter-federal vision. As I understand it, you have not met much enthusiasm – I am not saying "cooperation" – with your regional colleagues. I refer to Mrs Dutordoir's appeal: are you going to resume the initiative to meet with the regional mobility ministers in order to arrive at a comprehensive solution? As you know, too many public and private transport users are already at a standstill. It would not be acceptable for this file to be blocked or the above-mentioned vision to disappear. We must be sure that the next generation lives in a country where it is good to move.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u76	Mr President, Mr Leysen, thank you for this very interesting question. Immediately after my arrival, I set up an interfederal cell, which, together with the federal and regional administrations, has developed an interfederal mobility vision. That vision contains a clear strategy, with respect for the powers. In that vision, the track is the backbone of our mobility system. The concepts of ITS and Mobility as a Service also receive a lot of attention. The reactions from the social economic actors in our country were really positive. I have also brought the previous regional ministers together many times in the Executive Committee of the Ministers for Mobility. However, the interfederal vision, which was worked out by the Regions, was rejected by the former minister for purely ideological and political reasons. It seems that providing a solution to a problem is often a problem in itself. The new regional governments have now taken office and initial contacts have already been made. I am therefore optimistic that we will soon be able to sit around the table. The long-term interfederal vision will therefore be put on the table again, in the interests of citizens and businesses in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u77	Mr President, Minister, Mrs Dutordoir has made a very concrete proposal, namely to entrust the Planning Bureau and the Mobility Agency with the task of working with SNCB and Infrabel on a clear vision of the future for the railways. I support that idea, but I think we should dare to go further. As in Switzerland and the Netherlands, we must work on a clear and sustained vision of the mobility of the future, a vision that can be systematically promoted and rolled out in the field, with the good will of all parties, and in which the traveller, the commuter, the car driver, the customer, is central.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u78	Minister, there are many professional organizations in our country. Most of these orders are governed by laws that date back to the late '60s. In the meantime, however, the world has changed seriously, and I will not have to convince anyone of that. This means that reforms are needed, something that I probably will not have to convince anyone of either. It is up to us as politicians to support those orders. A concrete example is given by the architects and housing policy. How can the architects better protect and guide the builder and the grower in an ever-changing world, with changing legislation? The architects themselves started to answer that question. They are the first experts, the entrepreneurs in the field. They are convinced that a reform of their order is necessary, adapted to the needs of our time. I understand they've come up with a model themselves. In fact, many other orders have come to the same conclusion. Mr. Secretary, you are responsible for different orders. You also have the legal power to destroy decisions of those orders if necessary. Hence my questions. Are you aware of this evolution within the order? What will be your attitude if the order itself decides to work differently?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u79	Mrs Houtmeyers, I would like to remind you of an important point concerning the reform of the Order of Architects. That reform was almost complete but it was not finished because your party chose to bring down the government. I'm sorry, but that's the truth. As guardian minister of the Order of Architects, it is my duty to monitor the legality of the decisions taken by the National Council of the Order. I recently received information from my government commissioner about a new decision by the National Council of the Architects Order which amends the Rules of Procedure, in order to confer a decision-making power on the language departments. However, according to my administration, this decision is contrary to Article 35 of the Law of 26 June 1963 establishing an Order of Architects. On the basis of that legal analysis, I have therefore destroyed the decision of the National Council. The law is the law. You are well aware that a reform of the Order of Architects requires a law. The period of current business does not allow the government to take the initiative for such a reform.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u80	Minister, we need politicians who face reality. The reality is that orders want reforms. Their experts also indicate that there is a different way of working, with respect for each other. There are politicians who face reality in many parties. The reform of the Order of Architects was even in the government agreement of the Di Rupo government. I would therefore expect you, Minister, to take into account reality, what is alive on the ground, what the experts say and what the entrepreneurs experience. Facing that reality, I can really recommend you. I would therefore like to conclude by saying that, if you want reform, you will find a reformer in the N-VA.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u81	I congratulate you on your maiden speech, Mrs Houtmeyers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u82	Minister, how can we accept today that students are engaged in prostitution to survive? How can we imagine, when we dream of building a future, that we are forced to opt for extreme solutions to get out of it? In ten years, the number of students supported by CPAS has doubled. Nearly 50,000 young people under the age of 25 now benefit from integration income. It's unimaginable! In order to live in dignity and obtain subsistence rights, these young people seeking emancipation and the future must first complete lengthy and difficult procedures and hand over dozens of documents, which they do not always have – for example proof of parents' income. In the context of family conflicts, it is not uncommon for them to be denied the right to a minimum of existence. When this right is granted, the family allowances received are deducted. They must be part of an individualized project that is becoming more and more binding. They are asked to succeed in studies, to find work, but also to move towards a particular field. Moreover, at the slightest false step, they lose the aid granted and find themselves without anything. Minister, this situation is unworthy. On November 26, students will mobilize to demand a contingency plan and a structural policy to address student insecurity. Of course we'll be by their side. Minister, will you be with them? What are you going to do to put an end to this precarious situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u83	Mrs Thémont, this is a very important question. Like you, I am extremely attentive to the precarious situation in which a growing number of students find themselves. The data provided by my administration confirm that the trend has increased in the last fifteen years. Thus, the number of students receiving integration income increased from 7,724 in 2006 to 22,903 in 2019. So he almost tripled. The study by the BDO consultancy office on the living conditions of students presented to the Wallonia-Brussels Federation highlights the fact that this increase would be partly due to a larger number of young people from modest families wishing to enter higher education. CPAS have an accompanying tool through individualised student-specific social integration projects. The federal government is increasingly contributing to the student RIS paid to the CPAS. In addition, the federal contribution to this scheme is increased by 10 per cent. This larger funding is intended to relieve the budget of the CPAS, but also to improve the support to be provided to these students. In particular, the increased monitoring of these young people is aimed at helping them and strengthening them in their future prospects. So, is that enough? No, and I am particularly attentive to the aspect of your question regarding the easing of the administrative procedures requested of students. I believe that, as part of the work to be done with the CPAS, the next government will have to make progress in this area. When the administrative burden is added to other difficulties, sometimes to misery, it is then too much. I agree with you on this point. I have also contacted Minister Glatigny, whose steps are expected. In the area of student precariousness, we need to do more to break down our actions and coordinate our policies. As you know, in terms of RIS, competences are shared between the federal government and the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, but responsibilities are also regional, particularly in terms of housing – which represents an extremely high cost for students. That is why I am obviously open – and I have recalled my availability – to participate in this breaking-up of our policies and to facilitate more coordination in order to meet the needs of precarious students.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u84	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am pleased to hear you promise a relaxation of administrative procedures and also to learn that you have already contacted your counterparts in order to unblock these policies. We really need to hear the call for help and the distress of these thousands of students in precarious situations. They explain to us that they feel that they are considered "profictors" and that they have to beg in order to be able to live with dignity. Moreover, they feel that they are totally losing control of their lives. That is why, Minister, I thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u85	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u86	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 November 2019, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the bill (Mr Jan Bertels and Ms Karin Jiroflée) establishing a White Blouse Fund, Nos. 714/1 to 4. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 November 2019, I propose to you on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the legislative proposal (Mr Jan Bertels and Ms Karin Jiroflée) establishing a health care staff fund, No. 714/1 to 4. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u87	Proposals submitted by: Proposals tabled by: - 489:Sophie De Wit, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, Christoph D'Haese - 426: Stefaan Van Hecke, Cécile Thibaut, Jessika Soors, Georges Gilkinet 516: Philippe Goffin, Caroline Taquin, Emmanuel Burton, Michel De Maegd, David Clarinval.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u88	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Crombez.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u89	Mr President, I am referring mostly to the report, but given the importance of the proposal, I would like to add a few more points. The article in question is supplemented by the words "or that he would commit new crimes or malpractices." If the proposal is adopted, then recidivism will count for the determination of provisional detention. The Committee on Justice has discussed a number of proposals and amendments from different parties. Among other things, the question was raised as to whether an automatic application of the provisional detention would be desirable. It was noted that the non-automation of this would entail a positive motion of confidence for the judiciary. The debate must certainly also take place within the framework of the Julie Van Espen case. This explains why, according to a number of political groups, enlargement is an improvement. A number of abuses, as in the Julie Van Espen case, could be avoided in this way. Several groups claimed that the judge who had to assess the perpetrator's conduct in that case did not have the complete information about the perpetrator. Despite today's improvement, the judges must have the complete file in such an important decision. That should be a priority. After the discussion, 12 members voted in favour, two members abstained. The proposals put forward by some of my fellow Members will therefore lapse.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u90	Mr De Wit has the floor in the general discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u91	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when a judge of inquiry or a courtroom seeks to rob a suspect of his or her freedom in a hanging judicial investigation, he has several criteria for this today: the risk of escape, the risk of recidivism, the danger of collusion or public security. However, if, on the substance of the matter, a judge condemns a person to serious prison sentences and wants to be able to arrest the sentenced person immediately, he has only one criterion, namely the risk of escape. The risk of recidivism is not taken into account. This means, therefore, that a multi-player who is not a flight risk and who, despite repeated facts, offers himself properly cannot always be detained, but remains at liberty pending an appeal or receipt of his prison certificate. Recent cases in Leuven and Antwerp have shown that their consequences can be terrible. This proposal is very eager to do something about it. With this proposal, we are introducing an additional criterion, namely the risk of repeated accidents, so that, even if they are not dangerous to flight, they can now also be enforced. Whatever a suspect can do should be possible for a convict. In this way, we will give the criminal justice system more opportunities for immediate arrest and thus better protection for society. We do not introduce a new concept. We're using the same wording as we used in the council room. The judge retains the power of control. He'll judge. Of course, the judge will need the necessary information. It's gonna have to wait, but if it's ahead, he can finally do something with it. He can't do that today. With this proposal he will finally be able to do something about it, even if there is no flight risk. When a person comes to court, it is often known that several facts have already been committed, even though he has not yet been convicted of the new facts, because that information is often linked in the file. The prosecution can provide that information. Today, the judge can't do anything with that information, as long as the person concerned simply presents himself correctly or turns himself in. Well, it could be from today. This is very important. It is a very small change that can have great consequences. In fact, we have had a very good debate on this in the Committee on Justice, as it should be. Amendments have been tabled and comments have been made. They were discussed, including the amendment tabled by the PS again today. There was also a second reading. This is a unique experience I have been participating in for a few years in this hemisphere, for it is the first time that a second reading has been requested, with no comments from the legislative technical services. It's got to be okay. It is, of course, also a simple change. We use the same words. In committee, this proposal received a very broad support, for which I would like to thank my colleagues very much. I hope that I will soon be able to get that support for this proposal, which will allow us to give many victims, families but also judges, extra support in the fight against violence and crime. That's what we do here. We'll give the judge an extra tool. Hopefully we'll make society a little bit safer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u92	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that Mrs De Wit has already said why the proposal before us is a good one and why it is necessary to provide this additional opportunity for judges who make a judgment at first instance. I'm not going to repeat all the arguments. We had tabled a similar proposal in committee, based on the same arguments. I think there were many similar ideas. There was also a question from the lawyer to provide for this additional possibility. I think that many magistrates will be pleased to have this opportunity. So I think this is a step forward. It is also important that it is not automatic. There were proposals along these lines too. It is important that the judge can still make the case on a case-by-case basis, on the basis of the elements of the file. I think that's where the big challenge lies. The law is what it is: this possibility is there, but it will only be possible to apply it properly if the magistrate who has to apply this provision also has all the interesting, essential information to arrive at a good judgment. If there is insufficient information in the file on backgrounds and so on, it will be difficult for the judge to make use of them despite the legal possibilities. My appeal to the government, the executive and the judiciary is to ensure that the files are as complete as possible, so that each judge can give an informed opinion on a case-by-case basis and on a case-by-case basis. We will therefore support this text with great conviction.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u93	Mr President, the Flemish interest is also pleased that there will finally be an extension of that law, for which thank you, Mr De Wit. Previously, there was only an immediate arrest if there was a flight risk, but now we see that there is a recurrence. The reason for this was, of course, the murder of Julie Van Espen in Antwerp last spring. The unsub had previously been convicted of rape of his ex-girlfriend, but because he appealed, he remained at large. There has been another, more recent file in the press, namely of criminal Paul Bloemen. He was sentenced to 15 months in prison on 24 May for the murder of his girlfriend. After the murder, in August, he was in custody for fourteen months, but was subsequently released by the council chamber with an ankle bracelet. So he could attend his trial as a free man. Following his conviction, the prosecutor asked the judge to arrest Flowers immediately and send them to prison, but unfortunately the judge did not accept that, because according to the law, judges can only base themselves on the danger of escape today. Flowers had always respected the conditions and always came to his trial, so he was not eligible. He was sent home and awaiting a letter of convocation from the prison he was allowed to stay there. At the end of August, he cut his anklet and disappeared. So much for two stories that did make it to the paper. There'll probably be a lot more. To put an end to all these horror stories, it is crucial that this bill be adopted today. We therefore agree with a compromise text. It's not exactly how we want it, but it's already something. We have been calling for a stricter follow-up policy for years. Lifelong life is lifelong, for example. That's what we're working on. We see that with the text before us, the judge can decide to proceed to immediate arrest. We would have preferred to have seen a text that says that the judge automatically orders the immediate arrest on application by the prosecution in the event of a recidivism. The fact that the judge is only given the opportunity to order the immediate arrest does not go far enough for us. After all, we are talking about perpetrators who have been convicted before. It is important that, when serious acts have been committed, society is given the necessary protection immediately. I hear Mr Van Hecke say that it is important that the judge decides. But after that, the judge still has plenty of options to get back to the decision. For us, it should be an automatism. An amendment was therefore tabled by our group in the Committee on Justice. This amendment is a literal adoption of Open Vld's bill, but in committee that party abstained on it. She has not had the courage to support her own proposal. Some even left the room. Understand who can understand. The Flemish Interest wants to be constructive. Hence our vote this afternoon. We will approve this bill. It is certainly a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u94	I should have spoken to Mrs Zanchetta first. I apologize for not fully following the order.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u95	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we all remember Julie Van Espen, this young woman murdered last spring in Antwerp. We all remember the incomprehension and astonishment that broke out when we learned that his alleged murderer was on parole, when he was sentenced to four years in prison for rape. Astonishment and incomprehension because how can we explain to Julie Van Espen's family and relatives that the alleged murderer of their daughter, their friend, was on parole? How can we explain that it is possible to stay on parole when there is a risk of recidivism? The Antwerp court did not find it useful to order the immediate arrest of the alleged murderer, despite the public prosecutor's request. The suspect appealed and waited for his second trial with his hands free. This tragedy has highlighted that today, only the risk of flight is examined by the judge who evaluates the desirability of an immediate arrest. The Antwerp Correctional Court had explained its understanding of the consternation but was justified as follows: "Section 33, § 2 of the Pre-trial Detention Act allows for immediate arrest only when there is doubt as to the person's intention to evade the execution of his sentence. This is a legal criterion that must be met by the court. The risk of recidivism, the seriousness of the facts, the heaviness of the sentence, etc., do not constitute a legal ground justifying an immediate arrest." Astonishment and misunderstanding that dangerousness, the risk of recidivism are not legal grounds for immediate arrest. This raises even more questions if we consider the situations of violence against women and the too many femicides that reveal torturers in the past as a repeat offender. But, in addition to the emotion we feel when we are spectators of crimes like these, we must, ladies and gentlemen, remember the fundamental principles of our rule of law. I am thinking in particular of the presumption of innocence. Indeed, in the name of respect for the presumption of innocence, immediate arrest must remain the exception for accused persons or accused persons who appear free. Is that to say that no exceptions should be made? No, of course not! In certain circumstances, in the event of a danger to public safety, exceptions must be made. Exceptions already exist today. This is particularly the case where there is a risk that the accused or accused will try to avoid the execution of the sentence. But for my group, we can go further. In addition to the risk of avoiding the execution of the sentence, we believe that this possibility should also be provided for in the event of recidivism. The proposal we are considering this afternoon, which we support, extends the possibility of immediate arrest to the risk of recidivism. We agree with this extension, but we tabled an amendment that clarified our view and took into account sexual offences against minors, rape in general, and violence against women. Sexual offences committed against a minor victim are such trauma to the victim, his family and society as a whole that it cannot be a question of taking the risk of other acts being committed. We therefore expect that the judge who considers that the accused or accused person poses a danger to public security may have his immediate arrest carried out. In 2014, nearly 40,000 complaints of partner violence were filed with the police and nearly 3,000 complaints of rape. But that's not to mention the black number. A study by the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights on violence against women estimated that 78% of victims in Belgium had not reported to the police or another body the most severe act of violence committed against them by a partner. According to the Security Monitor, only 7.2 per cent of sexual offences are reported.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u96	Mr President, Mrs Zanchetta, I would like to interrupt you very briefly. You note that there is a suspicion of innocence. Of course, it is possible to appeal, but at that time the person concerned has already been convicted. That is one aspect. One is a little closer to a final conviction than when one appears before the council chamber. However, you contradict yourself. (...): (...) I'll wait for the translation. I do not wish to disturb your speech too much, but you mentioned just now that there is a presumption of innocence, that the person concerned has not yet been definitively convicted and that an appeal is still possible. However, they have already been convicted and they are already one step further than when they appear before the council chamber or the investigating judge. You suggest that the immediate arrest should be limited to as few cases as possible and that it should only be done when it is really necessary. However, I have reread your amendment. We have also had the same debate in committee. However, you withdraw the amendment and re-table it. That is why it is important to give the following information. Your amendment expressly states that you want another criterion, namely the need for public security. However, this criterion is much wider and much wider than the risk of repeated and flight together. It's a container concept. That doesn't match what you said before. Either you consider that the immediate arrest should be kept to the minimum. In this respect, our solution to the risk of recidivism and flight offers a great deal of possibilities to the courts, which are, however, concise and very well defined. However, the proposal you are taking up and repeating today is much broader in this case, because of public security. It is also completely inconsistent with your earlier claim that this arrest should be kept to the minimum. I would like to make this contradiction quite clear. It is also the reason why our group did not agree to your amendment and will not, of course, approve it later. We believe that this will open up a huge container concept, which cannot be the intention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u97	We have indeed had this debate in the Committee on Justice on the two criteria, namely, on the one hand, the commission of a new crime or offence and, on the other, the amendment we have tabled on the absolute necessity for public safety. We then considered and still consider that the notion of absolute necessity for public security is more respectful of the notion of presumption of innocence than yours. Why? For the simple reason that you are resuming a concept contained in the Pre-trial Detention Act 1990, which applies to the stage of investigation in which the magistrate does not have to judge facts whether or not they are established. You are transposing it to another phase of the criminal trial, which is the substantive phase in which a magistrate who has decided on facts, not yet definitive (because the capacity to oppose or to appeal still exists) will have to decide, while the facts are not definitively tried, whether the person is going to commit new crimes or offences. In other words, it prejudges an issue which it has decided and which is not yet final. The 1990 law opens the right on this question to an appeal in cassation where the question of the presumption of innocence and where this question will be debated on a simple and purely legal level. We believe that there is a defect, a breach of this fundamental principle, namely the presumption of innocence, since the magistrate has to rule on a question on which, in essence, it is not legitimate for him to rule.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u98	I repeat with regard to violence against women. There is no longer the number of stories of women who say they have appeared at the police station several times before their umpteenth complaint is finally recorded, often with a gradation in fact that is cold in the back. However, intimate partner violence and sexual violence have serious consequences in the medium to long term for women's physical, mental, sexual and even reproductive health, but it is also their children, their families and society who suffer the consequences. It is time to make it a political priority and to say that, for us, these facts are not mere facts but facts of such gravity that they must have serious consequences for those who commit them. We hoped that these facts could also be taken into account in determining the existence of a danger to public security that may require immediate arrest. Our proposal has not received the approval of the committee, but the debates in committee have led us to present a new amendment which we have re-tabled, as you have seen, ladies and gentlemen. What is its nature? What is its objective? We would prefer to retain the absolute requirement for public safety rather than the general concept of recidivism. In our view, the concept of absolute necessity for public safety allows for the detention of the person in the context of the immediate arrest, without having to decide on matters that might affect the presumption of innocence. This amendment, which my Khalil Aouasti College defended in committee, proposes, on the one hand, to include new offences at the threshold of conviction reduced by one year, namely mainly sexual offences committed against minors, rape, acts of terrorism, unqualified voluntary homicides as murders, intentional bodily injury and harassment. These new offences are integrated in order to better combat them and to ensure that additional resources are available to victims of such offences and crimes, especially since, in the vast majority of situations, the victims are women. On the other hand, this amendment proposes that the subtraction criterion cannot be considered as the only determining criterion for immediate arrest. A second criterion, existing in the Pre-Trial Detention Act 1990, is incorporated, by analogy, into the arrest warrant which leads to pre-trial detention. This is the criterion of absolute necessity for public safety. The criterion of absolute necessity for public safety includes, inter alia, the intrinsic danger of the alleged or suspect offender, the number of complaints against the alleged or suspected offender, one or more previous convictions for similar acts. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to reconsider your position on our amendment. This reinforces your text. My group supports this proposal. However, my colleague, Mr Aouasti, will abstain because the text presents a certain legal fragility.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u99	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 21 women have died in Belgium since the beginning of the year, simply because they were women. One of them was Julie. Julie was a 23-year-old student from Antwerp. His death shook us all, it was recalled. Today, the legislative initiative on our table is motivated by this tragedy. The PTB wishes to show its respect for this approach. There was a tragedy in this case. Obviously, Julie Van Espen's killer shouldn't have been free. This must be taken seriously. How is it possible that Julie's killer, with such a file, was released during the investigation? How can this be avoided in the future? These questions are entirely legitimate and justified. We applauded the Supreme Council of Justice's initiative to launch a specific investigation into this case to assess the involvement of the judiciary. To my knowledge, his findings have not yet been published. We have read and read this bill several times. We have taken the time to contact several lawyers specializing in this matter and I must say that I am surprised because they tell me that duplicating a procedure that already exists in the Chamber of Counsel will not solve the problem. The Ordre des barreaus francophones et germanophone told me that I had written to the chair of the Justice Committee asking for a real debate to be opened on this pre-trial detention. The debate is totally inadequate today, especially when it is observed that 42 per cent of the detainees in Belgium are currently in pre-trial detention. This letter has never been brought to our attention, and it seems to me very regrettable. These experts also point out that the proposal submitted here may have many negative side effects: increased unfeasible incarceration and miscarriage of justice. There is general agreement that the issue of the dangerous nature of the defendants before the Chamber of Counsel needs to be addressed in a much more thorough manner in the interests of the victims. Where things went wrong, it was, among other things, during the investigation and during the debate in the chamber of council. Do we solve this problem by introducing a new criterion of immediate arrest at a hearing on the merits? In light of the legal advice provided by practitioners, we are concerned that this is a false solution. It might be useful to add the criterion of recidivism but not in the general way proposed in the text today. In conclusion, perhaps something is missing from me, but I must confess that the proposed solution does not have the merit of convincing me. I wish I could say that no other family would have to know about the Van Espen family's ordeal. With this text, are we not again trying to minimize the problem of violence against women? I wonder. Is the death of Julie and all these women who died this year not primarily due to a lack of seriousness in the consideration by the judiciary and the police of this violence? Is not creating a duplication of procedure a confession of the complete failure of policies to combat violence against women? Can we say that we are trying by every means to meet our obligations in this matter in the best possible way?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u100	In the Committee on Justice, I was told that the proposal had no relation to this question and that this matter was not on the agenda. However, developments in the proposal mention the murder of a young woman in Antwerp last spring. I supported an amendment to apply this proposal only to acts of morality, because I think that is what this is all about. Unfortunately, it was rejected. I would have liked this real subject not to be ruled out; we must not turn away from the facts. Every day, women speak on this issue to ask for concrete political responses to violence against them. They want the justice system to take this violence seriously and, above all, remind them of the urgency of the deaths of dozens of innocent people. Ladies and gentlemen, we must listen to them. Our country needs an ambitious and prominent policy to combat violence against women, with strong vision and action. That is why the PTB will, of course, be present at the demonstration next Sunday. It is necessary that the entire criminal justice chain can provide an appropriate response to this real ordeal. Thank you for listening to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u101	Mr President, the MR will support this bill, which gives an additional tool to the trial judge, in order to avoid release during the appeal periods, when extremely serious facts have been committed - as unfortunately happens sometimes in certain circumstances. The text has beacons to avoid the use of immediate arrest at all-va. The first aspect to be highlighted is the lack of automaticity. Secondly, the judge who would decide an immediate arrest must give reasons for his decision. A balance is therefore struck between the rights of the accused and the presumption of innocence until a final judgement has been handed down and the protection of society. The MR welcomes the broad consensus that was reached at the end of the discussions in the Justice Committee. Moreover, this text joins an idea that had been tabled by our group under the legislature 51. It is true that at the time the scope of the text was narrower, since we were planning an immediate automatic arrest in case of a sexual offence against a minor under the age of 16 - in other words, a category of extremely vulnerable persons. The one that we are voting today has a broader offending spectrum. The judge shall make his decision on the basis of the elements of the case before him. The text will therefore be supported by the MR.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u102	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as has been said repeatedly here, the law at present only gives the judge the possibility of an immediate arrest if he is sentenced to prison, provided that he shows that there is a fear that the sentenced person is avoiding the execution of the sentence, in other words, that there is a risk of escape. This appears to offer too few guarantees against the possibility that, pending an appeal, a person still commits new offences. This turned out once again in the case of Julie Van Espen, where the accused years before had been convicted for various facts, such as theft and healing, but also for rape. At the time of the facts, he was a free man because he had been convicted of a second rape only at first instance and had not been placed under immediate arrest pending the examination of his case. The prosecution had requested this immediate arrest, but the judge had not responded because there would have been no chance that the person concerned would avoid the execution of his sentence. In the meantime, we know that this is not the only place where it went wrong. The incompleteness of the file also played a role. After this case, as well as before, unfortunately similar cases came to the press, not only in vice facts. I would like to stress that this is certainly not a question of flame politics. The sequence of cases shows that there is something wrong with the law as it exists today. Our party was certainly not insensitive to this problem. That is why we have supported the legislative proposals before us today, and we have also tabled a legislative proposal ourselves. We can certainly agree to the objective of these legislative proposals. We have also considered this track, but in the end we have chosen to go a step further with our proposal. We opted, as explained in committee, for a reversal of current logic. Where the law today gives the magistrates the opportunity to impose immediate arrest, we wanted to make it an automatism, but still the possibility for the magistrate to depart from it, subject to a justification. We retained the fact that the arrest must be brought forward by the prosecution, which must continue to play an important filter role. As Mrs De Wit has just pointed out, and this is important, there is already a condemnation at the time of the immediate arrest. The introduction of this automatic system could prevent a person from committing new facts pending his appeal. We believe that this method offers a better guarantee than if the criteria to be assessed by the magistrates still have to be supplemented by additional factors. It is very difficult, as several speakers have said in committee, to decide in specific cases whether or not a person is a flight risk at the time. As the practice has shown, it is not because someone shows up at trial each time and respects his conditions that he cannot flee when he finds out about his final prison sentence at first instance. I would therefore like to stress that, in our own proposal, we have respected the freedom of decision and autonomy of magistrates. It was decreed that the prosecution should seek immediate arrest. The prosecutors remained free to act according to conscience. In addition, the magistrate could still refuse, with justification. The judicial test was thus retained in our proposal. In committee, there was no majority in favour of our proposal. That is why we have chosen to support the slightly less far-reaching option put forward by Mrs De Wit and her group and to decouple our legislative proposal. We think that the present proposal is a good one. We fully support the addition of the risk of recidivism to the law in order to prevent such cases from occurring in the future. Unfortunately, although we cannot rule out everything, hopefully the legislative proposal can make sure that such terrible facts will occur much less. We therefore support the legislative proposal tabled by the N-VA Group.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u103	Mr President, I shall be very brief. The sp.a will strongly support this proposal. I will not repeat the arguments already contained in the very good report. However, I would like to add one more important element to the House, which I have already emphasised as rapporteur and which was also mentioned by Mr Van Hecke. Whether it is a question of a possible flight risk or a possible recidivism, in the Julie Van Espen case, which has often been cited, we have found that the judge did not have the complete information of the offender at the time when the judge had to take a decision. In the hearings in the Committee on Justice, we have heard a number of times that the files are not available or difficult because of the lack of resources in the judiciary. That is the only point in the discussion that I would like to repeat, because it seems to me to be elementary. We support the present proposal because it represents a step forward and will reduce a number of problems. However, I would also like to make it clear to the hemisphere that part of the problem with the present proposal has not yet been solved, namely the operation of justice. We must ensure that the information and documentation is at least complete for the judges.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u104	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, our group supports this bill because of its objective. The current law, in that it allows immediate arrest only in case of risk of escape, has shown its limitations. The explanatory memorandum of the bill obviously cites the tragic case of Julie Van Espen, but the limits of the law concern any other similar case. Therefore, we are not in the context of emotional legislation, which my party has always taken care of being distracted from. The limits of the current law relate to each case in which the accused would certainly not be in danger of escaping the execution of his sentence but which, because of his judicial past, especially in the case of previous convictions for acts of violence or morals, would constitute a real danger to our security. This impossibility of immediate arrest in such cases required legislative change for both current and potential victims. The proposed law thus proposes to add the risk of recidivism to the criteria allowing the criminal judge to proceed with the immediate arrest. It is therefore this concept that has been retained in the Justice Committee in that it is already included in section 16 of the Pre-trial Detention Act, but also in that the risk of recidivism includes the idea that public safety is at stake. My group would have preferred, however, to retain the notion of absolute necessity for public safety because it was more respectful of the presumption of innocence. The concept of recidivism refers to the risk of committing new crimes or offences and therefore implies that reprehensible acts, recognized in court, have already been committed, which cannot normally be induced when a person is presumed innocent and is before the substantive judge. It is for this reason that I have co-signed the amendment by my Socialist colleagues, which also provides for the inclusion of new offences allowing this immediate arrest, in this case sexual offences committed against minors, rape, harassment, deliberate homicide, acts of terrorism. However, we will support this bill because of its objective. I must also point out that, in addition to this, it will be necessary to ensure that the criminal court has all the information that will be necessary to pass this measure. It will certainly be up to the Minister of Justice, both current and future, to ensure this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u105	Mr President, of course CD&V will also approve the proposal before us. I have just heard in some speeches that we are excluding any risk, but that is why we are committing violence against the truth. We have to be honest about that, too. Punishment will never be riskless. A few references have been made to perhaps the toughest and most dramatic case we have known this year, but that was a coincidence. It was not only a question of not applying the immediate arrest but also of the hearing of the court of appeal and its postponement. There's a lot of things going on there. This case is specific in that respect. The authors of the proposal will agree that we will repeat a condition which has already been established on the subject of pre-trial detention and has often been assessed there. However, the proposal offers added value and opportunities. It is also about the future and not about convictions from the past, as I have just heard. We have approved the proposal, also because it is not seen as an automatism. The immediate arrest is a very serious measure. We are also taking risks with regard to unworkable detention. There must always be a judicial test, and as far as we are concerned it must remain so.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u106	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u107	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (489/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (489/4) The bill has two articles. The bill has 2 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u108	• 5 – Khalil Aouasti cs (489/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u109	Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u110	Sustained: the amendment and Article 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u111	Article adopted by article: Article 1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u112	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled, the article that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u113	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u114	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I refer to the written report. It is a very simple draft law, and I do not think it needs much explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u115	Mr President, I do not in itself disagree with the reporter when she says that it is a simple draft law that is before us for ratification. But it's not because it seems simple, that it's simple. The draft law deals with the contribution of nuclear operators to nuclear power stations Objective 3, Objective 4, Tihange 2 and Tihange 3. This contribution takes into account the windfall profits they achieve on deprecated nuclear power plants. The reason why it is before us, and we have discussed it extensively in committee, is because it is a matter of fiscal competence and fiscal powers are reserved for the legislator. The King cannot just take a royal decision for this; this must be confirmed here in Parliament. As I said in committee, Parliament is not a voting machine. The transmission of a royal decision for ratification to Parliament should not be a reason not to carry out our audit mission. I note that our powers of control here are not so obvious. The determination of the contribution shall be made on the basis of the opinion of the CREG, on the basis of research and studies carried out by the CREG. These are documents which are not available to this Parliament, whereas the CREG is, of course, an institution which is under Parliament's control. This is a very pertinent debate, because the contribution will be determined in a different way from 2020. The minimum amount is no longer in the law, but will be calculated using a certain formula. As a result, the big question remains whether the CREG has enough data and insight to bring that calculation to a successful conclusion today and to ensure that nuclear windfall profits are effectively extracted and returned to where they belong, namely: to the taxpayer, to all of us. We will therefore strengthen our questions in the coming weeks. See if there's an adequate objectification of the cost. Does the CREG have enough handles to make that calculation in a good way? Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure you know that my group has always expressed reservations on this point in the past legislature. We are and will remain of the opinion that the contribution of redistribution collected is structurally too low. That is why our group has always refused to approve ratification on this point in the past. Today, of course, we are in a completely different political situation, because the government in current affairs has no majority in this House. This explains, Mr President, why our group will abstain from this proposal. It remains important for us that the amount, even if it is too low, is effectively collected and that the nuclear operators, in particular ENGIE and EDF, are obliged to pay the amount effectively. That is why we will be abstaining on this point in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u116	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this annual draft law, this time ratifying the Royal Decree establishing for the year 2018, is a consequence of the Law of 25 December 2016, which amended the Law of 11 April 2003. About three years ago, Mr Wollants' technical high mass, which unfortunately is absent today, took place here, defending the bill quoted on behalf of the majority at the time. The creation of this law has had many feet in the earth. I refer to the judgment of the Constitutional Court, the opinions of the Council of State and the numerous observations of the CREG. I will not risk a technical debate on the level of the repartition contribution and the whole issue of Tihange 1 in the past. Unlike my colleagues from sp.a, who have been saying this for three years, I will not claim that the level of nuclear interest is not the result of an objective analysis of the operator's excess profits. Even the description arbitrary was used for this purpose. Colleagues, it is a fact that the Swedish majority was tired of the trials and disputes from the period before 2016. It is also a fact that the amount is determined by the contribution capacity of the plants concerned. It is a tax measure relating to the excess profit in the light of the fact that the plants in question were written off before the expiry of the planned operating period. It is also a fact that during the period of the law, electricity prices had fallen sharply. The decline in that pure commodity led to a different way of capturing nuclear interest rates. Colleagues, we must not, of course, be naive. The law of 25 December 2016 does not float in the air. He didn't just show up. The background to all this is the historic agreement between the Michael I administration and Electrabel of 2015. The choice to skim the profit margin of the previous year by 38% fits into this agreement. The task of the CREG was to calculate the profit margins of the plants each year, to update the parameters necessary for calculating the fixed and variable costs every three years and to propose a minimum amount for the repartition contribution. When determining the operator's profit margin, account shall be taken of the evolution of the cost index, production volume and, not insignificantly, the price of electricity. Mr Van der Straeten, it will indeed be very interesting next year because the CREG has the difficult task of proposing a new minimum amount. Contrary to what has been said, this amount will no longer be committed. It remains very difficult to see this as a simple Member of Parliament. You said that our powers of control are not clear. The Legal Service of the Chamber asked a question to which the answer was that the article on the confidentiality of Members is at issue here. We can discuss that further in committee. Now that there is still no new government, I would like to address the reality of ENGIE Electrabel. Colleagues of the N-VA, in the past there have been countless attempts, especially at the Flemish level, to increase competition from the government ENGIE Electrabel. I refer, for example, to the creation of the Flemish Energy Company in 2012, following its announcement in 2009. It was your intention to compete with Electrabel in terms of production as well. That was not realistic, of course. The objectives have therefore been revised for a number of years. The company has been a subsidiary of the PMV for several years, with the main aim of purchasing and reselling energy to Flemish government institutions. It's some kind of purchasing center. It strikes me as surreal, but it proves the omnipotence of ENGIE in the free market. Do you know that ENGIE concluded two very important energy supply contracts with the Flemish Energy Company two years ago? The reality of ENGIE Electrabel is always there. The shadow is always there and will linger over this assembly in the coming years. Madam Secretary, last year you were a little upset with Electrabel. Remember the non-working power stations and the unavailability of most nuclear power plants in this country exactly a year ago. I quote: 'Electrabel is fully responsible for the situation due to poor planning of maintenance and repairs. Today's problems stem from the fact that structural investment has been under-investment for years. Our country bears the negative consequences of the fact that the decision-making centre is not located in Belgium. My Richter scale is already at 3." Those were harsh statements from you, exactly a year ago. In fact, you rejected the idea that the sale of nuclear power stations abroad might not have been the best decision of the Verhofstadt government. I found those statements very interesting. They also float against the background of the repartition contribution. The shadow of ENGIE Electrabel, Mr President, will also be present in many debates over the next few years. I would also like to refer to the Minister's intention to strengthen the legal framework for the nuclear commission, the SYNATOM dossier. Last week, during the oral questions, we found that many groups did not trust the operator for any reason. My party therefore notes that ENGIE remains in a strong position. If the new government fails to attract sufficient new production capacity to replace the nuclear power stations, Mrs Wilmès' successor or successor will have to beg ENGIE Electrabel on his or her bare knees to keep Objective 4 and Tihange 3 open for longer. This lifetime extension would be accompanied by very heavy investments, which ENGIE Electrabel will only want to do if the rules are adapted and new clarity is created for them. In other words, colleagues, investment guarantees. Then perhaps even price guarantees come up. At the beginning of this year it became clear that ENGIE does not assume that Objective 4 and Tihange 3 will actually close in 2025, but is actually counting on both reactors to run for 20 years longer. Then, of course, we are back to today's topic: nuclear interest. It becomes even more complex, ladies and gentlemen, when we realize that Electrabel is not only the largest producer of classical electricity, but also the largest producer of renewable energy in this country. Your killed enemy, colleagues from Green, Ecolo and PVDA, the multinational ENGIE, is also working on renewable energy, energy storage, research and development and energy efficiency. The company therefore plays a crucial role in the energy transition in this country. It is difficult to blame a company for proposing and installing CO2 savings and associated competitive solutions from a profit perspective, for example. I am very interested, Madam Minister, in the developments of the following months and years. A few weeks ago, you stressed that any decision on the possible extension of the life of a limited number of nuclear power plants must be balanced against security of supply, consumer costs, environmental impact and compliance with international agreements. In any case, my party continues to believe that the development of CO2-free energy in Belgium allows for a pooling of forces between nuclear and renewable energy. Clarification of the capacity issues and the cost of the CRM mechanism, in particular the KB financing, must now be achieved quickly. As in the Law of 25 December 2016, the Flemish Interest will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u117	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last week I came here to discuss non-binding legislation on the decoupling or dismantling of nuclear power plants in our country. I tabled a proposal in committee on the very limited liability of our nuclear power plant operators in the event of a nuclear accident. This parliamentary initiative fits in with a view to allowing the nuclear power plant operators in our country to take some financial responsibility. On the one hand, because they are allowed to use nuclear power plants that have been paid off for more than ten years by the payers of the many energy bills in our country. On the other hand, for the safety risk, however small, that exists for our society. Today we will not approve this RB. We believe that the nuclear levy is far too low. The colleague of the Flemish Interest may refer to the CREG. He forgets to say that the CREG said in 2011 that the calculation is far too low. They believe that nuclear interest rates are much higher than those applied today. There has been a great deal of disagreement about this, and the lawsuit has indeed been stopped. Was that brave? The price we pay for this is a billion euros. We're picking up 700 million euros today. The four years before this was 1.7 billion euros. That is a difference of one billion euros. I think it is of little political courage to come here and say that it is now settled, that we can rest assured, that we have the money. For a billion euros, you can make some effort, especially in these times of budgetary cutback. That is our position. You will understand that we cannot possibly agree with this draft.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u118	Madam Minister, last week I asked you about this, saying that the citizens of our country were wondering whether they would have to pay the bill for the dismantling of nuclear power plants and waste management themselves. In its 2018 annual report, the Commission on Nuclear Supplies had called the alarm, stating that, I quote: "The risk is considerable that the Belgian population will have to bear enormous costs in the future." According to another study commissioned by Greenpeace, the cost of dismantling nuclear power plants and managing spent fuel is expected to increase and the 2003 law is insufficient. The study states: "The law of 11 April 2003 does not provide for the potential situation in which owners would not have sufficient funds to meet costs; therefore, the parent companies cannot be held responsible". I would remind you that the total provisions will have to be at least EUR 25 billion. Some even speak of 37 billion. Today, there's only 11 billion in cash. There is a decrease in the payments requested. In 2017, it was 191 million and, following the implementation of the degression mechanism, 161 million. In 2018, there is an increase to 177 million and, following the implementation of the degression mechanism, to 150 million – 11 million fewer than in 2017. In addition, these amounts are determined by the CREG, for which parliamentary control cannot be exercised properly. You're going to answer that it's because it's sensitive business information, but it's a problem for us to have to decide on it without an informed opinion. Despite all this information, Madam Minister, you do not know how to comment on the increase in nuclear supplies, when they are insufficient and they are decreasing. You said it in L'Echo last week, and you told me about it here last Thursday. You reject responsibility on the ONDRAF, which must set the necessary means for nuclear supplies. We do not agree with that vision. It is the responsibility of policy makers to set the regulatory framework that will ensure that nuclear power plant operators take over the dismantling and management of waste to the end. In addition, in 2018, when your draft bill was passed at first reading, according to Écho, you continued to negotiate discreetly with ENGIE-Electrabel around the provisions already constituted. I quote: "Leaks on the content of these discussions have even raised fears of a complete detrication of the text." I find it strange. We therefore wonder what we are voting for today. In what context is this all within? For us, assuming our political responsibilities means setting the necessary regulatory framework for the operators of nuclear power plants to assume their financial responsibilities. Otherwise, taxpayers will have to pay for the dismantling and management of nuclear waste. This would not be fair because Electrabel pays almost no taxes and its parent company, ENGIE, makes profits in billions of euros each year, especially thanks to Belgian nuclear power plants. That is why the PVDA-PTB will abstain from this bill. We will not vote against it because, even if the amount of the provisions is completely inadequate, having that money is always better than nothing. Minister, we invite you and the next government, if it ever happens, to review this amount sharply upwards for the years to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u119	Mr President, I would like things to be clearly set. In the last two speeches, however, I hear a message which is not clear and which is even totally wrong. While the law of 11 April 2003 concerns not only the legal framework relating to nuclear supplies, of which you have spoken a great deal, we are here in another part of the law which concerns the special taxation which applies to the operator Electrabel and which is intended to capture, over and above the usual taxes – in particular the corporate tax – the surplus profit earned by this company which managed to obtain at one time to amortize very quickly, in twenty years, all the infrastructures and to be able to generate profit, without the depreciation, since they were rapid, after this twenty years, come to a gravitate the profit that it derived from the operation of its infrastructures. You are talking about nuclear supplies, which is the subject of a completely different chapter of this law of 11 April 2003. This confusion can be a real problem because nuclear supplies are made up of money paid in addition to the taxation which we are talking about today by the operator and whose steps of increase are fixed between the Commission for Nuclear Supplies, ONDRAF and the Federal Agency for Nuclear Control in a completely different order than the taxation which is referred to here, which, of course, is fixed, as it should be according to our Constitution, by the regal power which is the Belgian State. You must know that nuclear supplies – and I did not stop you last week to tell you that you would find the solution yourself, but that is not the case – have increased by more than 1,000 million a year since these increases took place.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u120	[[....]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u121	That's right. We are talking about 1,000 million a year, which is several billion, Mr. Hedebouw. These sums are paid by the operator to cover the costs of dismantling nuclear power plants and processing of highly radioactive waste. I would therefore like to draw your attention, Mr Verduyckt, Mr Warmoes, to the fact that we are talking about a royal decree which fixes the amount almost mechanically, as the Council of State points out, which says that, since it is a regulatory matter, the executive power no longer has any room for manoeuvre and merely sets the contribution through the application of a formula contained in the basic law, all the elements of which have been debated, voted and published and whose basic amount must, for the next triennium, be fixed by the CREG. It is therefore this annuity or this distribution contribution which is a specific tax, which is to be paid by the specific taxpayer, namely Electrabel and EDF, who have in common, through the shareholding lease, certain prerogatives over the unextended plants, that is to say, outside Tihange 1, Doel 1 and Doel 2 which they have a very special tax regime which is called the royalty which we have already mentioned. All this should not be confused with nuclear supplies. I ask you, therefore, to review, in the light of the explanations I have just given you, your judgment to bring money into the State coffers. This is indeed the State and not the SYNATOM fund to house these nuclear supplies which will one day have to be used, in order to prevent the State and the citizen from paying anything precisely, in connection with the dismantling of nuclear power stations and the treatment of highly radioactive waste. I simply ask you to revise your judgment and/or revise your argument to confirm in the law a royal decree which must come out of effect before the end of the year, in order to bring into the State funds the revenues which are very necessary to it and which correspond to the capture of the overprofit recorded by Electrabel thanks to the operation of the infrastructures of which the group is owner and operator. As a reminder, the decommissioning provisions in 2014 amount to EUR 819 million housed in the SYNATOM fund, the operator of which is in any case liable for nuclear supplies; in 2015, EUR 599 million; in 2016, EUR 1,319 million; in 2017, EUR 1,115 million; and in 2018, EUR 1,112 million. These are the steps to increase the nuclear provisions regulated by Electrabel for provisioning related to the dismantling and treatment of highly radioactive waste. In this case, it is a special tax. Don't confuse yourself! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u122	Mr President, Minister, you were not yet present at the time of my presentation. Firstly, on my side of the House, no one has suggested that the contribution should not be collected. No one on that side suggested that. On the other hand, that's different. Our colleague from the Flemish Interest said that he would vote against the contribution. However, no one here on my side has indicated that. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u123	I thought I understood that way. In any case, no one on my side of the House has said that. Secondly, what has been unanimously stated on my side of the House is that we are all convinced that the mechanism laid down in the law may not be sufficient. We also had this discussion in Parliament. It is not because there is now a calculation that needs to be confirmed, that we should not look forward and that we should not be united in our political strength, in order to continue to examine the legal system and to continue to check whether the CREG effectively has all the handles, in order to arrive at a proper calculation. That is why, in addition to simply confirming a contribution to be collected for the current calendar year, it is equally necessary to have a fundamental debate, which belongs to the legislator, on whether the calculations and the laws that we have today provide sufficient tools for skimming the excess profits. In this respect, the committee still has a long way to go. We must have a progressive understanding of this issue and learn from past experience. Together with and at the initiative of the CREG, we need to look at how it can help us better to ensure that we can achieve a good skimming of the excess profits.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u124	Mr President, Mrs Van der Straeten, I had made it very clear that the Flemish interest would abstain in the vote. However, I can reassure you at the last point in your reply. We support you in that. You have a point on the CREG. That's no problem at all. A question has also been asked, to which Parliament's Legal Service has given us an answer and an opinion. I shall briefly explain why we will abstain in the vote. After all, I have described the reality of ENGIE Electrabel in a rather journalistic way in this country. We will abstain from the vote because we are not very satisfied with that multinational in the light of the many failures of November 2018, which were a true low point. This has also been confirmed by the Minister at various times. I quoted her through several quotes. I have indeed given a journalistic anthology, which I will often do here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u125	Mr President, I would like to respond very briefly, because we are being accused of confusing a number of things. I'll be very clear. In fact, I dropped the words 'nuclear commission' to indicate that our group is concerned about this and is actively working on it. It is true that we are voting on something else today. I know very well that it is now about the repartition contribution. That is indeed the money that goes to the treasury. The nuclear commission is a provision that we are putting in place for the decommissioning of nuclear power plants in the near future. We should be quite right to be concerned when the Commission asks to beware of nuclear facilities, because the legislation is not complete. She advises us to solve that, so that there will be no money too short. Today is about the repartition contribution. We are opposed to it being so low, but we will abstain because we want to be sure that at least a repartition fee is levied, even if we think it is far too low. The billion euros I have just spoken about are indeed EUR 1 billion less in the treasury.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u126	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u127	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (635/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (635/1) The bill has three articles. The draft law has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u128	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u129	Proposals submitted by: Proposals tabled by: - 714: Jan Bertels, Karin Jiroflée - 704: Raoul Hedebouw, Marco Van Hees, Peter Mertens, Sofie Merckx, Nadia Moscufo, Steven De Vuyst - 731: Ahmed Laaouej, Sophie Thémont, Hervé Rigot, Eliane Tillieux, Marc Goblet - 741: Barbara Creemers, Laurence Hennuy, Kristof Calvo, Georges Gilkinet, Marie-Colline Leroy, Dieter Van Besien, Séverine de Laveleye.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u130	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The Rapporteurs are Mr Bertels and Mrs Taquin.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u131	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give you a brief oral report on the initial four legislative proposals on a health care fund. The legislative proposals submitted wish to implement the €67 million of funds included in the final draft of provisional twelfths of 2019, in particular for the months November and December. I myself will briefly explain the organised hearings. Ms Taquin, co-rapporteur, discussed the section on the retention of the legislative proposal itself. The hearings took place on 13 November last. Representatives were heard from the nursing sector, the trade unions, the hospital sector and the federal administrations concerned, the Health Care DG of the FPS Health and the Social Maribel cell of the FPS Work. The full presentation of those hearings can be consulted on the Chamber's website. As agreed, a podcast has been made of it. I shall confine myself here to the main points on the basis of the explanations given by the speakers and their answers to the questions put by the members of the committee. The hearings have been useful and I am sure they will be useful for the continuation of our work in the coming weeks and months on the further use of the additional financial resources of the care staff fund. In the various explanations and answers, I believe, five somewhat general lines of action were taken, which were shared by most or all of the speakers. Firstly, the slope of spending 2019's resources through the Maribel funds, both the private and the public funds, is the good technique for using those funds in 2019 and the best way to ensure that the funds for 2019 are not lost. Secondly, there is a need for additional staff in the healthcare sector throughout the healthcare chain, such as nurses, healthcare professionals and support staff. Thirdly, in addition to the need for additional staff, other accompanying measures are needed, such as employment standards, the funding standards of nurses and care staff, the alignment of these standards, taking into account the quality of care and so on. Fourthly, structural measures are needed, so financing must also be sustainable. The new financing is a good step forward, but funding must also be sustainable. It should only be a first step. More resources will be needed for more care staff, better working conditions, the attractiveness of the profession, etc. Finally, the final line of action, the best thing is not to shred the new resources too much. Federal resources must be used for federal sectors. Sub-areas should assume their responsibility for sectors for which they are competent. I am thinking, for example, of the need for care staff in the housing and care centres, which is their competence. So far, Mr President, I am happy to give the floor to Mrs Taquin for the remainder of my brief oral report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u132	Mr President, this is the report on the draft law on the creation of a White Blouse Fund, tabled by Mr Jan Bertels and Mrs Karin Jiroflée, of which I have the honour to be co-rapporteur – and I thank the honourable Member. First of all, the authors' introductory presentation. Mr Bertels presented his proposal this Wednesday 20 November in the Health Committee. This text follows the adoption of an amendment to the law opening provisional appropriations for the months of November and December 2019. This is a bill that regulates the way in which the budgetary fund will obtain its resources, as well as the expenses to which these resources may be allocated. This will make the budget available to the sector for 2019. The fund will be financed by a levy on the proceeds of personal tax (IPP). Expenditure may be allocated to the financing of the recruitment of nurses, the promotion of employment, the improvement of the working conditions of nurses and the financing of nurse training. The budgetary technique advocated is the Maribel Social Fund, both for the public and private sectors. Mr Jan Bertels said that an amendment would be tabled in committee to clarify the breakdown of the allocation of resources and the distribution key between the public and private sectors. This amendment has been drafted in collaboration with the budget units of the firms concerned. Mr. Marc Goblet (PS) recalled that he had chaired the informal working group set up by the PS to reach consensus on the various proposals under discussion. Then we went on to discuss and vote on the articles. The first two articles did not call for comments and were adopted unanimously. Section 3 provides that the fund shall be financed by a levy on the proceeds of the PPI. Mr Christian Leysen (Open Vld) and others introduced Amendment No 3. It aims to remove the reference to the amount of EUR 400 million from the 2020 budget year. This means that the law will only regulate the allocation of means for 2019. Mr Leysen indicated that a reference to the 2020 budget was premature and contrary to budgetary orthodoxy in this current business period, where it is customary to work with provisional appropriations. Ms. Kathleen Depoorter (N-VA) said that expenditures should not be financed by additional taxes. One-off funding must be avoided and there must be structural funding for nurses, not only in hospitals, but also in nursing homes and nursing and nursing homes. According to Mrs Depoorter, it is possible to transfer funds for this purpose to the federated entities from now on. The N-VA stated that it supported the amendments that would make it possible to identify resources for the nursing sector. Amendment No 3 was adopted by 7 votes with 9 abstentions. Rule 3 as amended was adopted by 7 votes with 9 abstentions. The main focus of the discussions was on Article 4. Mr Leysen et al. introduced Amendment No 1 to replace Article 4 in its entirety. This amendment provides for €8 million from the €67 million envelope for self-employed nurses. The manner in which these $8 million will be allocated will be the subject of a subsequent legislative initiative. The amendment also extends the scope of the law to all services within the Maribel Social Fund in which health workers are employed. This means that home nurses are part of it. The amendment regulates the distribution of resources between the public and private sectors, as well as between the various subsectors, on the basis of the number of FTEs employed in these subsectors during the previous year. Finally, the amendment removes the ceilings within the Maribel Social Fund. Another amendment was introduced for Article 4. This is Amendment No. 4 by Mrs Yoleen Van Camp (N-VA) et al., which aims to extend the scope of the bill, not only to independent nurses, but also to nurses working in care institutions for the elderly. The N-VA has always felt that the additional financial resources should be allocated to the entire nursing sector, not only in hospitals, but also in nursing homes and nursing and nursing homes. Mr Steven Creyelman (VB) endorsed the arguments put forward by Mrs Van Camp and denounced the lack of nurses in rest homes and nursing homes in Flanders, for example in his commune. Mr. Raoul Hedebouw (PVDA-PTB) stressed the importance of including resources in the Maribel Social Fund because social actors in the field are best placed to know which sector to allocate resources through joint negotiation. Hedebouw acknowledged the government's commitment in day-to-day business to provide the necessary resources under the interim funding early in 2020 in order to continue to fund the staff that will be engaged now. Mr. Robby De Caluwé (Open Vld) recalled that the Minister of Social Affairs had already allocated an important budget to the nursing sector under the social agreements. Since the resources allocated are not enormous, it is not appropriate to sprinkle them by including rest homes. While this sector is also faced with a shortage of staff, the expertise of the federated entities is evident. Mr. Jan Briers (CD&V) said that the CD&V supported the Bill and Amendment No. 1. The solution of a Maribel Social Fund is the subject of consensus in all political groups and in representatives of the sector. The CD&V believes that the resources allocated should be used for additional recruitment. With regard to Amendment No 4 by Mrs Van Camp et al., Mr Briers said that it was not necessary to finance sectors belonging to federated entities with the means of the Federal State. He acknowledged, however, that the nursing home sector in Flanders would also need help. Mr. Benoît Piedboeuf (MR) was pleased that the hearings had clarified the needs of the sector and that the measure had been expanded to include independent nurses. In addition, there is a need to focus on federal jurisdiction. It is therefore up to the Regions to take measures with regard to rest homes and rest and care homes. Mr. Jan Bertels (sp.a) said that the working group had obtained government commitments in day-to-day business to provide the necessary resources in the first instalment of provisional appropriations for 2020. He pointed out that the home care sector is covered by the amendment but not by rest homes or nursing homes, which fall within the competence of the Regions. It is not envisaged here to amend the funding law. It is for the N-VA to question its responsible ministers to the Flemish government. Ms. Dominiek Sneppe (VB) regretted that her group had not been invited to participate in the working group while supporting the amendment in plenary. But she was pleased that her group's voices were useful to the debate and allowed the nursing sector to benefit from an additional budget. Mr. Marc Goblet (PS) reiterated his group's desire to take into account all health sector personnel at the federal level. He recalled the government's commitment in day-to-day business to provide interim funding for the first three months of 2020. He also stressed the commitment of all political groups to the sustainability of the funding system, regardless of the composition of the next full-function government. Ms. Laurence Hmente (Ecolo-Groen) welcomed the fact that an agreement had been reached, despite the difficult conditions. Amendment No 1 by Mr Leysen et al. was adopted by 14 votes with 2 abstentions. Amendment No 4 by Mrs Van Camp et al. was rejected by 10 votes to 5, with 1 abstention. With regard to Article 5, Mr Leysen et al. introduced Amendment No 2, to clarify that Article 5 has retroactive effect on 1 November 2019. The amendment was adopted unanimously, as was Article 5 as amended. The whole bill as amended was adopted unanimously. As a result, Bill Nos. 704, 731 and 741, attached to the discussion, become moot. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u133	Mrs Taquin, thank you for your report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u134	Thanks for the extensive coverage. That saves any explanation here. I shall confine myself to the substance, because the rapporteur has already explained very well what our amendment proposal means and why we have tabled it. On the financial side, my colleague Kathleen Depoorter will take the floor. I shall confine myself to the question of nurses, as I did in committee. In fact, with this proposal, we are implementing a resolution tabled by my party and myself this summer, in particular the resolution to improve the working conditions of nurses. I am pleased that today we are able to implement this largely, with at least this year's commitment to an important profession. As far as we are concerned, this profession includes all nurses in all sectors, which is why we have presented this proposal. Once again, I would like to point out the figures in this respect for everyone. As far as home care is concerned, a home nurse receives only 5 euros in fees for an injection. That doesn't even cover the material, the transfer and administration costs, let alone the operation itself. Those are the actions that will be reimbursed. After all, many of the activities of home nurses are not even reimbursed. Think of a lot of actions on prevention, education and care at a distance. However, if we focus on home care, we can ensure a similar quality of care and even often a better one. A lot of people like to be cared for at home. In this way, we can also achieve important savings for patients and society. I quote this aspect again because with every home nurse care that we can achieve, we save hundreds of euros of sunbathing fees. The reason why I would like to emphasise it here is because my group is convinced that the savings that we can achieve in this way must be returned directly to the sector and to the patient. So much for home care. Fortunately, there was agreement on this in committee. There was also consensus on the care institutions, the part of the hospitals. There we all know that the burden of care has increased enormously due to the ageing of the population, the complexity of care and innovation, while standards have remained virtually unchanged since the 1960s, as I have said before. The hospitals do fit, because research shows that we have 1 nurse per 10.7 patients. Of these, however, only 80% were financed. So we are actually at 13 patients per nurse, with which we are in the same regions as Spain, Poland and Greece. We compare ourselves with the Scandinavian countries or with the United States, where a nurse only has half of the patients under her/his care, especially 5 patients per nurse. We now know that every patient under the wings of a nurse increases the risk of unexpected death and avoidable death by 7% and also increases the risk of burn-out among care staff by 23%. However, investments in nursing and care workers are a very good investment: three quarters of them are made back by fewer complications and less avoidable mortality. There are also shortages in the sector today. Over the next 50 years, we will need a 500,000 additional workforce in the white sector. We can only deal with this situation if we also reduce the workload in all healthcare institutions. To sum up, for us it is not just about home care and hospitals, but also about the rest and nursing homes. That is why our amendment is before us, because we believe that the whole sector needs a little push. The two reporters have already said that each Community itself is responsible for its powers. That is indeed the case, and in Flanders there is already an extra effort on the rest and nursing homes. In concrete terms, for 2020, it will amount to EUR 9 million extra in this sector. In the meantime, without amending the funding law within the social Maribel, we can make use of all sectors, not only home care and hospitals, but also the rest and nursing homes. I am sure the cabinet can confirm that there are precedents in which this has been applied. There is therefore no legal reason or obstacle, which means that today we would not be able to rely on additional support for the care staff in the rest and nursing homes, where the workload is equally high. My group therefore finds it very regrettable that the masks have fallen off in committee and that many parties, apart from the N-VA and the Flemish Interest, did not want to approve support for the care staff in the rest and nursing homes. That is why we are very happy to retable our amendment in plenary. Perhaps colleagues have come to their senses today and feel that care workers in the rest and nursing homes are also entitled to additional resources, as are those of home care and hospitals. I'm rounding up. For the N-VA, every nurse, from all sectors, counts. I hope that you have come to your senses today and will fully support our amendment, so that additional resources will also go to the care sector in the rest and nursing homes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u135	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, nurses have been suffering for too long. The number of sick workers is exploding and the resignations, burn-outs and vacant posts are exacerbating the pressure on the existing staff who are no longer able to lift their feet. Abused caregivers cannot be long-term, well-treated caregivers. It is up to us from the ground that nurses must constantly adapt to technological, socio-economic or political changes. For example, home hospitalisation or the limitation of the length of stay requires resources on the ground. While Governments have a fundamental responsibility to put policies in place to improve the health of citizens, they also have a responsibility to provide the means to implement them. In the face of this urgency, there was this vote in plenary to allocate a fund to the white coats. Voting a fund is one thing but allocating budgetary means and finding technical means for them to benefit on the ground is another. Since the vote in plenary, ecologists have been actively involved in the drafting of the bill, with the valuable assistance of the field and the sector, whose effective mobilization must be emphasized. That is why we proposed from the start to go through the social Maribel. It was essential for us to work effectively, quickly and, above all, constructively. From committees to hearings, from meetings to technical working groups, in three weeks we have reached an agreement which seems to us balanced and which in any case allows us to meet the initial objective: to strengthen the presence of arms around the patient, whatever his status, whether in hospital or at home. All nurses, regardless of their status or sector, must benefit from this fund. We took care of it, as we had committed ourselves to it. Practically, in 2019, 59 million are planned for the employees of private and public hospitals and home care via the Maribel and, since the allocation of funds is based on a local joint consultation, we have the guarantee that they will meet the needs of the field. The bill also provides for an envelope of €8 million for independent home care nurses who provide a huge amount of outreach and front-line work. The terms of reference for the allocation of funds and the objectives will have to be further refined in the working group. In any case, we will remain very attentive to the sustainability of this fund in the coming years – starting with 2020 – to the evaluation of its smooth functioning in the very short term, i.e. the real allocation of resources to the net increase in employment and in the right sectors. We will propose improvements, if any. We are indeed looking forward to spending a substantial budget on health because it is an essential area for us. This has a significant impact on public finances. We assume it. The public deficit preceded this measure and, if this issue is to be resolved, it cannot be at the expense of basic needs, such as those of white coats or their patients. We are also very aware that other social and environmental needs deserve to be addressed. Savings and efficiency gains will have to be realized, new revenues will have to be found. We are quite ready to work on it. Parliament has done an unprecedented job. We came to this agreement because parties agreed to face reality and agreed to take on their responsibilities and work together. This was not done without a loud voice, but we acted in record time as we had committed ourselves to doing with the white blouses. Let us take this as a constructive exercise that, we hope, can serve as an example to form a government. If we can vote today for a White Blouses Fund, there is still no medium- and long-term vision for the sector. There is no real plan for white blouses as there is no plan for justice or rail either, because that is the role of a visionary and courageous majority and government that we wholeheartedly wish to respond to the economic, ecological and social emergencies facing us. Thank you for listening. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u136	Each group is given the floor in order of importance. I have just said it to the N-VA, who apparently has a second speaker. First of all, I will allow all the groups to speak and you will choose the order in which you register. The political groups then have the opportunity, because there is no limit in speaking time, to register a second speaker in the second round. That's the logic I follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u137	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we know the situation of healthcare staff, which has become untenable. All day long, nurses, nurses, caregivers do everything they can. They run, provide care, handle patients and heavy loads. They are accompanied by the pain of the sick, families and sometimes death. They don't count their hours between guards and alternate schedules. Their working conditions are difficult and this obviously affects their privacy. I will allow myself to ask parliamentarians, out of respect for those who pay attention to your health every day, to at least listen. Despite all the efforts and the best will, it must be noted that the situation is catastrophic and that it is the patient who pays. Having to wait long hours to receive care is the daily life of patients who suffer and can no longer be cared for. In this vicious circle, the exasperation of under-accompanied, cared for or listened to patients leads to an aggressiveness that makes it even more complicated for caregivers who simply struggle to exercise their profession under suitable conditions. In the face of this urgency, Parliament has taken on its responsibilities and adopted an additional budget to respond to the problems of white blouses. Colleagues, our responsibility was to implement this budget in order to improve the working conditions of all healthcare workers in practice. On the basis of the proposals tabled, the PS Group proposed setting up a working group which I had the honour to chair. After sometimes difficult, but always constructive discussions, we were able to come up with an urgent solution for 2019 that takes into account all caregivers at both the hospital and at home, both wage-earners and self-employed. This solution resulted in the adoption of amendments to the bill tabled by our colleagues in the Sp.a. For the last two months of the year, 67 million euros will therefore be allocated to improve the employment of white coats, but also their working conditions, taking into account the different realities. Fifty-nine million are earmarked for employees through the Maribel Social Fund (public and private), according to an objective distribution taking into account the number of full-time equivalents for 2017. Eight million are earmarked for independent nurses. As the commitment has been made, it will be necessary to define in a clear and precise manner, not only the terms of use, but also the conditions for monitoring the use of these EUR 8 million. An essential point is that we did not limit ourselves to 2009. The commitment has been made by all parties to sustain the situation. Thus, EUR 402 million will be provided for in the various budgets, either provisional for 2020 or within the framework of a budget in the event of the formation of a government. It is important to stress the willingness of all parties to find a solution that is technically budgetary but also guarantees the sustainability of the system vis-à-vis staff. As chairman of this working group, which has made it possible to find a concrete solution to move from promises to reality, I would like to thank all the democratic groups that have shown a desire to move forward to respond to the emergencies of healthcare workers. I would also like to welcome to this rostrum all the health care workers to whom we owe a great deal. Because of their dedication, courage and professionalism, they provide quality care and allow our country to give priority to patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u138	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the creation of a care staff fund is almost a fact. We're gonna have a few more votes and that's it. This proposal was made thanks to the Flemish Interest, and of course we are pleased about that. Especially pleased because the healthcare sector will benefit. As a follow-up, especially happy because the patient will be able to take advantage of it. So much for our joy. 'Cause it's gonna take me a while to get it off my chest, too. On 24 October, a commendable amendment was adopted to ensure that budgets were released for white rage, les blouses blanches. That amendment was adopted because the Flemish Interest thought that was a good proposal. Thanks to our voices. Eighteen Flemish Interests were decisive. You would think: for what good, but apparently not in this House. We were therefore not invited to turn the amendment into a legislative proposal. Let alone get us to sign that. So much for the democratic content of the self-declared democrats in this hemisphere. So much for the real concern for white rage. After all, I cannot get the impression, ladies and gentlemen, that here it is mainly because of which plumes come on which hat, and first of all to ensure that the plumes do not come on a Flemish Interest Hat. As I said, thanks to the Flemish interest, an additional budget will be allocated to the healthcare sector in the coming years. That, ladies and gentlemen, must seriously hurt. The Flemish interest in particular ensures that this proposal is accepted. That's your purest nightmare, I think. There was no one who said on 24 October that those 18 votes were undemocratic votes. There was no one who said: yes, but we should not hear the voices of that undemocratic party. And it's a good thing, colleagues. It is a good thing that the democratic rules in Parliament do play at crucial moments. It is also good that imposed rules of political dinosaurs, such as the cordon around the Flemish Interest, do not achieve common sense. It is also good that the Flemish interest does not play this undemocratic game. The Flemish Interest soberly assesses every bill, based on its content and in the interests of our people, across party boundaries and ideological differences. That, and that alone, is why we can and will adopt this proposal today across party boundaries and ideological differences. Let it be yet another appeal, in the interests of our people, of our citizens, for whom we are all here as representatives of the people, to judge any proposal, from whomever or wherever it comes, soberly and on the basis of content, as the Flemish interest does and as the Flemish interest will continue to do in the future, regardless of any ideology and in the interests of our people.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u139	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the need for care is high. We all know that and we all recognise that. We all want to do something about it. However, we have a lot of motivated and fantastic nurses and healthcare professionals. However, the fact remains that we need more hands on the patient's bed. Providing a solution is not an easy exercise. It is about recognising the talent in care, the attractiveness of the profession, job shifts to get the right job to the right profile, manoeuvrable and workable work. In short, it is a whole exercise, an exercise that will become one of the most important issues in the future and will undoubtedly be continued. When we tabled the PVDA amendment and voted on 24 October, we were convinced that this was not the best way to tackle this problem in the provisional twelfths. However, it was approved here. We therefore immediately cooperated fully to implement the EUR 67 million. For us, it was important that this was done in a correct and concrete way and also supported by the sector. We therefore welcome the proposal and the way in which the EUR 67 million is ultimately spent, through the Social Maribel funds, which have the expertise but also the structure to get the money quickly and well on the ground, both in employment and in training. We can also support the substantive result. It is about creating employment or improving working conditions, but also about investing in training so that the necessary profiles are ready to get into those jobs. In addition, it goes to both the public and private sectors, to home care and also to self-employed nurses. In short, the working group has drawn up a well-supported proposal which will enable us to get to work very quickly in order to provide more helping hands on the patient's bed. CD&V will therefore fully support this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u140	Mr. Hedebouw, are you intervening for your group? I should have given you the floor earlier. There is no intention of discrimination. Don't worry!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u141	Beste collega's, ladies and gentlemen, this is an important moment. Today will see the implementation of the PTB amendment to provide an additional €402 million for the health care sector and the hospital sector. It is an important moment, first and foremost for all women and men working in the sector. Today they abandon what should normally be a wonderful job. After all, it is a job in which people are helped to heal, in which one gives love and positive energy to people at a time in their lives when they need it. It's really something exceptional. Ladies and gentlemen, I am thinking above all of all of all those people who are now in burn-out in the sector, who are tired and who are asking us to give them additional resources. Everyone agreed with that for a year. Everyone tells us about this need for the sector. On 18 July, we introduced an amendment calling for EUR 402 million. This amendment was rejected. On October 24, we introduced...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u142	Mr Hedebouw, perhaps remember who voted in favour of this amendment on 18 July. That would be helpful.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u143	That's right. Excellent question!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u144	May the answer be so excellent!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u145	The PS actually voted in favour, as the sp.a. From the colleagues, the comrades of...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u146	You mustn't get personal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u147	No, but it can be said effectively. We did not have a majority in favour of this amendment at the time. On 24 October, this amendment introduced on 18 July to our initiative. What changed between October 24 and July 18? The struggle, dear comrades! The struggle, of strijd, the fight, led by workers in the sector, led by workers coordinated by the trade unions! You can say that anyway, Marc! We can quote them. In hospitals, in an area where it is not easy to strike, because the staff wants to continue to care despite everything, the pressure has been used for something. That is the political lesson we must learn today, Mr President! The political lesson is that the struggle pays off. The dialectic that existed between the social movement that did not weaken and the pressure that was exerted in Parliament led to victory. This has not often happened in our history in the last ten years. That is why today's vote is important. To give back hope to the class! To give hope to all these workers! If the white blouses sector has been able to win, the other sectors can win too! That's nice! That the workers in these sectors do not think that politics is just something of fifteen or twenty professional politicians who are simply going to negotiate a new government, no. Come on in the dance. Come on in the fight. Come with your voice, all the inhabitants of Belgium, the workers from all sectors, public services, private sector, young people. You can make your voice heard. It's the moment, now or never. Traditional parties don't know which way: left, right, up, down, they don't know anymore. It's the moment. That is the political bilan of what is going to happen today, ladies and gentlemen. That bilan is not just Belgian. Yesterday there was a historic strike in the Netherlands: 119 hospitals in the Netherlands were on strike, three-quarters of the workers in the sector were on strike yesterday, for the same demands as in Belgium. France has experienced a social movement as has rarely been experienced in the health care sector, against the measures of Mr Macron who wants to privatize it and make workers pay. It's an inspiration. I have received messages from, among others, French comrades, comrades from the Netherlands, saying that fighting can be useful for something. I do not know if you remember the vote on the amendment. I see that everyone is obviously hot for the amendment, but on 24 October it was less hot. Some colleagues, I am not going to mention names, have even said that this amendment was a PTB scam that had given rise to false hopes among workers in the sector. (Brouhaha) No personal fact about it! No false hopes because, from the start, we believed in them. Remember the speech. We were going to find the technical methods. From the moment that the balance of forces existed politically to go and find them, the technical issues would be resolved. In this regard, I thank all colleagues in the working group, and in particular, I welcome the grouping work done by Comrade Marc Goblet. Mark, all these common fights leave traces! It was important to come together to agree on technical solutions. That's what we did. The PTB welcomes the Minister's very clear commitment. In the next three months, the provisional twelfths will provide for the integration of this contribution into the Fund. Of course and Maggie De Block said right away, we're not going to hire workers and then fire them in two or three months. That wouldn't be a solution. We are talking about thousands of possible hires with the funds that have been released. There are 4 to 5 000 additional jobs in the sector. It's important and it's a great victory! Colleagues, I'm gonna stop here. With regard to the technical arrangements for the management of these funds, we have had discussions and are pleased at the PTB that the wisest solution has been taken, namely to trust the actors in the sector. It was very important that we had reached an agreement to work through the Maribel funds. You know that, Mr Bertels. In this way the sector can decide for itself, because in the sector people know where there are needs in hospitals and in the field. Going through Joint Committee 330 for the private sector was crucial. They must already make this kind of choice. Through the Social Maribel, we gave them that power. This also applies to the public sector. We also think of self-employed workers, because it is very difficult for an independent nurse to round her end of the month and run left and right to provide home care without knowing where to give head. How many times have we not heard these independent nurses who are also at the edge of the burn-out? Mrs Fonck, it is a pleasure to hear this wind of revolt and resistance in a parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u148	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u149	Yes, yes, I expected no less from you, Mrs. Fonck. Don't give birth to false hopes! From the beginning, you said it was impossible, because you couldn't touch the provisional twelfths and it was populism. No! This is the serious policy we are pursuing here: 402 million euros, it is very important! History is essential, because it is exactly the same dialectic. [[Tumult]] They're nervous, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u150	Mrs. Fonck can interrupt you, Mr. Hedebouw.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u151	More like two times than one, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u152	I shall therefore give him the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u153	Mr Hedebouw, so far, I had patiently told myself that I would reply from the top of the gallery. Every nurse I met, Mr. Hedebouw, said, "Ah, we've been promised 20,000?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, But, Mrs Fonck, it's almost December and we still haven't seen anything. Yet we were told that this amendment would solve everything overnight." Mr. Hedebouw, 20,000! With 400 million euros, this gives them a 50% scale. So at that time, you played pipe in the whole area. What's amazing is that...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u154	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u155	Today, the 400 million don't give you 20,000 nurses.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u156	No, 5,000.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u157	Yes, it is, 20,000! You even wrote it in your amendment. Then this amendment alone was wind. It was then necessary to work to guarantee the funds. Besides, you only planned two months. That's why it was also necessary to ensure that by January 1st, nurses would not be out of the game. It was therefore important to draw up a legal mechanism that would allow to cement what, at that time – sorry, dear colleague – was only windy. Promising to an area, with communication in turn, that there will be 20,000 more nurses, is not only populism but it is mocking the nurses who, every day, have a particularly difficult journey and an increasing burden! We've reached a first step here. Mr Hedebouw, dare you to admit that it was necessary to cement your story, which at first was nothing but wind, and that it was necessary to tell the truth! The truth is that these are not 20,000 nurses, but in the vicinity – I hope – of 8,000 complementary nurses.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u158	Mr. Hedebouw, you were closing, I think. [[Laughs]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u159	I would like to respond briefly to Mrs Fonck. I don't know who you met in the area that told you it was bullshit. I must admit I've had completely different returns. In particular, I received a lot of testimony from unionized workers at the CSC and the CNE who asked me the following question: "Raoul, how is it possible that the CDH did not support your 400 million amendment?" Honestly, I didn't know what to answer them. Really! We don't have to agree on everything. I mentioned earlier the comrades of the PS who immediately said that it was a good measure, that as a social party, they would support it. But I assure you, I didn't know what to say about the CDH. Today, I thought you were going to give me an answer, but you're not giving me anything.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u160	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u161	I think they'll come to themselves. I'll tell you why. Because they didn't need this relationship with traditional politicians to win. They've been begging for this refinancing for two or three years. That's the difference! And you still have not understood that the social movement is realizing that it can weigh in the political hemisphere, in the political spectacle that it can weigh in political decisions. That is what you still do not understand, Mrs Fonck! It was not enough to introduce the amendment; it had already been introduced at the end of July. It was known that an amendment itself did not make a difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u162	Oh, at last!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u163	Of course! I'm not saying anything else! It's amazing. It's been two hours since I've been trying to explain to you that the difference...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u164	Mr Laaouej asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u165	Mr President, it is not a matter of starting to arbitrate here, but frankly, does this debate not deserve anything other than vain controversy? We have succeeded in building a parliamentary majority in this Parliament. A working group was set up with all parties who, with good will, wished to reach a solution. We have achieved this thanks to parliamentary work. It deserves something other than this controversy. Frankly! [[(...): (...)]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u166	Mr. Laaouej had the right to interrupt under the Rules of Procedure. I can't appreciate either. I said earlier that Mr. Hedebouw was closing. That was wrong. There are flies flying around him. If you give me permission to kill them, I'll go.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u167	Don't hit too hard, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u168	Mr Hedebouw, your time has been reasonable.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u169	Mr President, I agree with you. I will therefore close by thanking all colleagues for this constructive work and will conclude with this appeal to the other sectors. Don't hesitate! I know that the situation is difficult in justice, in the railways, and in education. Don't let it happen! Trust yourself! The fight pays off. That's today's lesson. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u170	For a bit of ideological counterbalance, I shall pass the floor to Mr Leysen.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u171	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a few weeks ago the provisional appropriations were approved here in the hemisphere. With an unpublished change-over majority on the eve of an almost shutdown, an amendment for an additional budget for nurses was adopted. These are unusual times right now. Due to the absence of a new federal government with full powers, new rules and unusual alliances gradually form. Almost a full year there is a budget financed by provisional twelfths, while structural interventions are needed. A euro can only be spent once. When more is spent than received, someone will pay the bill, although we sometimes do not want to know. If we really do not know, then it will be the next generations who will have to pay. The European Commission's warning yesterday was therefore quite justified. We need to put our budget in order as quickly as possible and we need to manage our budget in a normal way. Recourse to new policy space without government programme and budgetary management cannot and must not be the norm. Having said that, we respect and implement Parliament's decisions. We also understand the needs of the sector. I thank Marc Goblet for leading this working group. I learned that when the cameras aren't there, sometimes it's more animated, but we get results. We have come to a solution in which Mr Jan Bertels has also played a very important role. We have found a destination and a method of use for these resources. Minister De Block has already provided substantial resources in recent years to consolidate the social agreement in the care sector. These resources will contribute to this. At the suggestion of Mr Bertels, who has given a good start through the Social Maribel system, we have found a great deal of solution. We are aware of the commitment and importance of the nurses. We also know the need for more hands. Everyone knows someone who is a nurse and we have probably all used their good care. It is important, however, that we look not only at nurses in hospitals, but also at the many nurses who are involved in home care. I have my own family in it and I have seen my father make very valuable use of it during his five last, difficult years of life. Care in the home environment is not to be underestimated. There are about 15,000 people working full-time and 11,000 people working part-time. Thanks to the colleague who found the Fonck rule, we have reached the conclusion that out of the 67 million 8 million should be spent on the people in the home care sector. All hands on the bed are equally important and equal, in the hospital and the home situation, employed and self-employed. The amount we pay here is important but, of course, it does not solve all the problems. In business it is said that management by declaration does not work but that one must have management by implementation. Now that we are taking this important step, we must ensure that there is proper use in every domain. This should not simply lead to more employment, one has to meet the demands in the sector. There's still work to be done. We have found a compromise here that is important, knowing that home care will become even more important in the future. Technically complex interventions will probably also be able to move to home care in the long term. Certain acts could be delegated. So we need to see that in a broad framework. It is clear that every level of policy must assume its responsibilities. That is why we will not support the amendment which, with federal resources, wants to finance regional powers again. It is difficult to make too great a claim for the future, but in the course of the work we have heard from the Minister for the Budget that he will also take those figures in the provisional twelfths for the first quarter. The next government, with full powers, must create the framework and allocate the resources available to the government. The agreement reached provides a significant boost, but it is not a blank cheque. What is ahead is a balanced compromise, which has been achieved with a great deal of responsibility on everyone's part. I am also looking at Ecolo's colleagues, who have contributed to this. That is not a political statement from which you must draw other conclusions, but our group is happy to approve this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u172	Mrs Taquin spoke as rapporteur and will now speak on behalf of her group.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u173	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we amended and voted in the Committee on Health on Mr Bertels' proposal for a law. The text before us today is, in our view, the legal basis for concretely addressing the urgent concerns expressed by nurses throughout our country. It is a collective work that was carried out, in the concertation – which would have believed it – with speed but without haste. In this regard, allow me to thank the Ministers of Budget, Social Affairs, Health and Employment for the valuable technical support provided by their offices. I do not go back to the details of the proposal – this has just been done – but I would like to remind you here of some elements that we believe are fundamental. Throughout our meetings with the various political groups, we called for serious, methodical and effective work. Indeed, we have always insisted on the need to be constructive and accountable, and to have – this was essential to us – an informed view of the sector's needs. It was in this context that we wanted hearings to be held in order to know precisely the urgent needs of this sector and to respond to them as adequately as possible. With the effective help of services and experts, it was done. And this has helped to lift a corner of the veil on the complex implementation of such a measure. In addition, we have also argued – supported by our colleagues at Open Vld, and I welcome Mr Leysen in passing – for all nurses to benefit from this support, and therefore for independent nurses to also benefit from this measure. A nurse equals a nurse. A nurse equals a nurse. It was by insisting on this essential point for the Reform Movement that the following decision was reached: of the €67 million planned for 2019, €8 million goes to the independent nurses. During the preparatory work, we found that this sector was not concerned. These self-employed people are, in fact, generally in the shadow of the social debate about healthcare workers, and that was a pity. For us, they couldn't be forgotten. All nursing providers had to be taken into account, whether they were wage earners or self-employed. These represent nearly 22,000 people who work every day in the patient's home. We have already been able to objective the real needs and define their priorities in the use of this fund. We all know this is a first step. By 2020, overall work must be done on the recruitment of additional staff, on the working conditions of these care providers and on strengthening the attractiveness of this now underprivileged profession. This will require collective work not only at the federal level, but also within the federated entities. Let us remember that through this work, we have certainly all become aware, and I really wish, that the "there is only" do not exist. There are constraints, but we can overcome these constraints while being reasonable, working together legally and respecting the rules imposed. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the MR is concerned, we obviously support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u174	Mr President, I hope I will make a constructive contribution in the same way as I have tried to contribute constructively to a solution for the implementation of the care staff fund. Colleagues, we all agree on the need for additional staff in the healthcare sector. More hands on the bed, more hands around the bed, we have heard enough with those present at the hearings. It is a wide-ranging need and it is good and necessary that a start is made on this. The sp.a has been asking for some time. We are also asking for further steps on the matter. We'll remember that discussion. And yes, we are also asking for all healthcare sectors, according to the applicable jurisdiction rules in this country. The Flemish government must assume its responsibility for the Flemish housing and care centres. If the N-VA in the Flemish Parliament wants to honour our pending proposals regarding staff for the housing and care centres, yes, we are asking for them. You just have to take a look: the proposals were pending, are pending and will remain so. We can approve them in the Flemish Parliament. Secondly, today we are voting on the concrete implementation of the additional resources for the care sector in our federal budget. I am happy and a little proud, perhaps a little vain, that I have been able to form the basis of a proposal which I hope will be widely supported and which will be adopted unanimously. Indeed, we have come up with a proposal for the use of EUR 67 million in additional funds for 2019. Indeed, the Maribel funds' technique allows us not to lose 2019's resources. The already existing technique of the Maribel Funds should lead to concrete improvements in the field. We are right to expect this concrete improvement from our inhabitants, our population, care staff and nursing staff, care professionals and support staff. Not words, but deeds. Not only words, but also actions, ladies and gentlemen, that is why I have gone into politics. Acting in favour of a caring and inclusive society is my political motto. I want to develop solutions that can be felt by our citizens, the caregivers, and the caregivers, the entire healthcare staff. I am therefore satisfied, or content as they say in our region, that there has been cooperation across party boundaries. I also hope that we can continue this constructive cooperation. After all, the exercise is not ready. We still have to find a concrete implementation that will succeed, even there are opportunities for self-employed nursing staff to be provided for. We also need to consider how we can make the funds for 2020 more sustainable. I am therefore pleased that in current cases the government has committed itself to providing the necessary funds for the first provisional twelfths for 2020, if necessary. I have also noted the implicit commitment of all the parties involved in the working group to provide sustainable resources for the next government's programme, regardless of its composition. That too will continue to follow the sp.a choking. I want to end with a positive note. After all, positive, solution-oriented policies are what we need and what the citizens are asking of us. We have found good spending opportunities to spend the extra money for 2019. The social partners in the Maribel Fund have this experience: they know how it works and what the needs are on the ground. Employers' and workers' organisations have all indicated that they are ready to work actively on this and to use the resources well for the recruitment of nurses and nurses to find them, there are opportunities for strengthening employment throughout the care chain, for improving working conditions, for training as nurses and so on. They can. After all, it is the intention of the sp.a. that we are all in favour of the care sector being able to devote itself to what it is best able to do and what it is trying to do as well as possible day after day: to provide care. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for sending this important signal to the healthcare sector. They deserve the support of all of us. And yes, it's always a good time to give that support, but a little more today, because coincidentally today the campaign for the Day of Care 2020 starts in Flanders. The theme of the Day of Care 2020 is Care Works. Ladies and gentlemen, let us make sure that the healthcare sector can work better, with more hands around the bed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u175	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my concern about the situation of the white blouses and the pressure on their shoulders is no longer present. This pressure has only increased in recent years due to the much faster rotation of patients in hospital, their premature discharge leading to a greater burden at home, their greater dependence, with patients often older, isolated and with multiple illnesses. Talking about a White Blouse Fund, improving working conditions or the engagement of complementary nurses should not make us forget that the first priority is the quality of patient care. Having nurses, sufficient health care staff, is also a way of improving the quality of patient care. It is known that the risk of death or complications is less important when caregivers are present in sufficient numbers. We had to do some serious work to avoid just pretending. It was necessary to translate and concrete in texts advances for white coats. It was particularly important for us not only to work on the case of hospital nurses, as some had planned from the beginning, but to integrate home nurses, whether they are wage-earners or self-employed. It was also essential for us to have guarantees that were clear enough to ensure that there were more caregivers at the bedside of patients. It was not, therefore, a question of having only administrative staff. The aim was to improve the quality of working conditions, to obtain a structural commitment and not only in the last two months of 2019, not to recycle budgets from other health care departments. Finally, it was a question of ensuring that all the costs would be covered, otherwise it was to postpone part of the burden on the hospitals we know – the MAHA study by Belfius recently emerged – that their financial situation is particularly fragile. Ladies and gentlemen, the work is not over, first of all because the political agreement incorporates two complementary commitments that will have to be realized. First commitment, as long as day-to-day business continues, the budget will have to be maintained through provisional appropriations. In this respect, there is a commitment of EUR 100.5 million for the first three months of 2020, to be repeated if, subsequently, a new government is not yet in place. The second political commitment, when the government is in place, provides for the sustainability of this envelope not only for home care, but also for hospital care. Several actors - I also welcome all the actors who were heard during the hearings - have called for this to be done, for hospitals, through the budget of the hospital's financial resources. Secondly, the work is not finished either because the pressure is equally high in the area of nursing homes, but also in institutions for disabled people. In this respect, I can only call on the Regions to set aside a budget which will be allocated, why not, through a Maribel Fund or, in any case, to strengthen the funding allowing the involvement of complementary nurses in nursing homes, nursing homes and institutions for disabled people. I hear some parties arguing that this fund should also include the institutions now dependent on the regions. Doing this is directly diluting the existing budget in a significant way. I made a quick calculation myself. This would make it possible to hire only a few nurses per hospital. This would clearly appear in relation to the commitment to improve working conditions and reduce pressure on the shoulders of white coats. Yes, very clearly, the Regions must be able to generate additional resources and invest as soon as possible to reduce the pressure on white coats in these different sectors. The job is not finished either, because it is a job in short supply. It is not for nothing that many nurses leave their jobs early, even though they have an experience that they could continue to value. It is also not for nothing that there is a sometimes significant decrease (up to 50%) in nurses' schools of young people who engage in these studies. In other words, once again, the Regions and the Communities must work to improve and increase the attractiveness of the profession. Finally, Mr. Chair, the work is not over either because, with respect to federal jurisdiction, whether at the hospital or home level, a whole series of provisions will have to be reviewed. For example, the list of home nursing procedures has not been updated for years by INAMI. Some aspects such as travel or partial indexation of funding must be taken into account, as must the reality of the number of nurses in hospitals, as well as the recognition of the training of all these caregivers, including their specialization. I will conclude by recalling that being a caregiver - and I am not just saying it personally, I am also saying it on behalf of all those who engage in everyday life - is not just a profession. Being a caregiver is first and foremost a full professional, personal commitment. It's a dedication beyond what you can imagine. A dedication in terms of time, a dedication to patients, a full dedication, I repeat! For this reason, I would like to see this vote, which I hope will be unanimous in welcoming and supporting all our caregivers and what they do on a daily basis for patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u176	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we too, of course, are very happy for the white coats. There is no doubt that they deserve this investment. As such, we should thank colleagues who have worked in the technical groups to realize this support. However, I think the nursing sector would have deserved even better. Their upgrading should have taken place in a normal budget, decided by a full-year government. Even if we are obviously going to vote in favour of the creation of this fund, I cannot hide from you a small flat or even a slight malaise. We can do it as we want, colleagues, but we will distribute resources without actually creating them. And we are doing so for the benefit of a sector that is in dire need of it, but without taking into account the other legitimate sufferings in this country. What are we going to say to others tomorrow? What are we going to tell the pensioners tomorrow, who can't tie the two ends? What are we going to say tomorrow to the justice sector, which is in a half-disaster situation? What are we going to say tomorrow to the police, civil protection and all the others? There's a philosopher named Jean-Jacques Rousseau. In a book that Mr. Hedebouw surely read – From the Social Contract – he explains the difference that needs to be made between the particular wills and the general will. The latter is not the addition of the first ones, but their alignment. This requires choices, arbitrations and a general framework that allows, for example, refinanceing health not as a result of a parliamentary shot during current business, but as a result of work that reconciles the interests of all. So, of course, it's a little less easy, but it's the only fair way to govern. To govern is not to satisfy at once any particular need, even the most legitimate; it is also to satisfy the general interest. We will obviously vote for this fund. However, if we continue in this way, ladies and gentlemen – even with the best and purest intentions – we will soon spend our time here weighing and opposing needs and suffering without any other course and vision than those of an emergency chasing another. That's why I'll finish with a small call. If we could invest the same energy that we have put into the actualization of this amendment to the constitution of a full-fledged government, which will not only meet all these needs and all these sufferings, but also do so in the context of the general interest, then I think that everything will become possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u177	In a second round, Mrs Depoorter will now have the floor. Mrs Creemers will conclude the debate. Last but not least.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u178	Colleagues, I've been waiting a long time, but it was interesting to hear everything. We shall shortly be voting on the 67 million amendment. You have just taken us back to October 24th, Mr Hedebouw. You said 402 million. The amendment concerned 67 million. You're charging pretty fast.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u179	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u180	Yeah, you said that. The N-VA will absolutely support the amendment, because we recognise and underline the needs of care. However, allow me to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that this dossier has taken a special course. First, you decided to spend money, and then you decided to spend it on what. That's kind of special. The demand for healthcare resources has just been confirmed by my colleague Mr Van Camp. We want affordable and good care for our patients. We have worked very well together in the working group. That is absolutely so, and I thank you all for that. I listened very carefully a moment ago. Green and MR have underlined that every nurse is equal. Every nurse takes on very valuable tasks for our patients. Every patient is also equal. I therefore invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to support Mr Van Camp's amendment. It's coming. Then we will effectively help every nurse and every patient. The funds can therefore be distributed to care in the residential care centres. Mr Fonck said it would be a far too small particle. It would only involve a number of nurses per hospital. However, I am absolutely convinced that people will be very satisfied, even if we can only fund one extra nurse in a residential care centre. Patients will also be very well cared for at that time. So it's a warm invitation. You can still agree to this. What Mr Bertels said about the Flemish government, of course, also focuses on care. If you have read the Flemish coalition agreement, you know that 9 million extra is reserved for the RVTs, so that is Flemish concern. Colleagues, I have repeatedly asked in the working group how these funds will be paid in healthcare. I am very pleased that we have kept the debate on 2019 and 2020 separate. The funds for 2019 had been approved, which we fully supported, and the funds for 2020 have been provided for. However, we must consider how we will pay for it. No one has given me an answer to this. How will you pay them? You do not answer me, because you have no answer. We discussed this in committee. Mr Hedebouw, you said that our group chairman called you Sinterklaas and said that you are pursuing sintering policy. If I hear you now, and you also call on other sectors to ask for more and more resources, then you will also need the Easter Bunny and Santa Claus. They will all have to contact the people who work, save and undertake to collect the funds for these additional burdens. N-VA has said from the outset, and it is also well recorded in the report, 'no extra burdens'. Additional resources for care, absolutely, but then we will work with quality indicators and with health objectives. In this way, we will shift things in health care so that our patients receive optimal care. These burn-outs must not occur in other sectors, in which they pay all these taxes, because then too we have a problem. We all want to ensure that our patients are well cared for, that our nurses and healthcare professionals can do their job well in a pleasant atmosphere, that they get opportunities and that they stay, because that is where we have to go. We've got plenty of nurses. When we look at the figures of the RIZIV on the diplomas, we find that enough people have been trained as nurses. However, the problem is that they do not end up in hospitals and do not remain in residential care centres. The RIZIV has indeed indicated that problem. Just those residential care centers that you don't want to finance have the biggest competition and know the biggest flow of nurses to hospitals. Ladies and gentlemen, for us, the answer is absolutely yes. There must be more hands on a bed and more hands on care.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u181	Mrs Depoorter, Mr Bertels is asking for the floor for a brief break from your speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u182	Mr President, Mrs Depoter, I would like to say two sentences. Firstly, you are quoting a senior official from the hearing, on which you were also present. Your colleague wasn't here, but you were. However, you must quote him in full. At the hearing, all sectors argued against a fragmentation of resources. Secondly, the same high-ranking official you are quoting has literally said that you should read it out in the report 'The transfer of funding from the federal level to the Länder', as you wish to establish, is unconstitutional. I'm just quoting what he said at the hearing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u183	Mr Bertels, I will take you back to the working group in which you removed a number of sub-sectors from the Social Maribel in order not to have to finance in the residential care centres. The senior official I have quoted is not the one you mention. This concerns Mr Hermesse at the RIZIV hearing. That's right. I agree on the point of de-federalization. I thought you were talking about federalization. I thought I'd found a partner.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u184	Reunite is maar éen letter verschil.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u185	Now, that's news.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u186	Mr President, briefly, I would like to say that I am very interested in the speech made here by the N-VA. You're explaining that you want, with federal money, to fund regionalized nursing homes. I am pleased to see a turn. Basically, you join us in the sense of wanting to re-federalize certain skills. You will see, we will be able to find an agreement to re-federalize and we will be able to find a mass, in addition to hospitals and the home, to finance white blouses in rest homes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u187	Mrs Fonck, I have already said it in a debate: the Flemings will not be allowed to get sick for ten years. Honour those hospital networks are a fact, that's gonna take a long time. Please, let us stick to the discussion. If you want to confederalize, or even more federalize, then we are your partner. I just said it to Minister De Block, and I repeat it. What we do ourselves, we do better. Give us the means. Flemish public health, we are absolutely in favour of that. Colleagues, I will conclude with a positive note. We have a nice deal for the care. It is a pity that the people in the residential care centres have not been included, but for all those patients, for all those nurses, I think it is a very positive story.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u188	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, EUR 67 million is invested in caring for those who care. €67 million extra for our nurses, in hospitals but also in home care. That was necessary. Because our nurses are on their gums. They run their legs from under the body. On average, they care for more patients than their colleagues do in the neighbouring countries. It was therefore more than necessary to invest in the well-being of those nurses. The money now goes to more recruitments so that we can make the teams stronger. Strong nursing teams will ensure that our nurses can take their much-needed vacation days. They will ensure that they can be replaced if they wish to receive training. Strong teams, the necessary rest, the necessary training, we are convinced that all this contributes to sustainable and healthy careers. That's what we all need. Especially those who take care of all of us. Sharing EUR 67 million well and legally regulated was not so simple. We have worked very hard on this in Parliament over the last few weeks. I am particularly proud to have been able to contribute to this together with my colleague from Ecolo. Working quickly, efficiently and beyond party boundaries can indeed be done, including in Parliament. Let me close with the call not to leave it at this. These EUR 67 million are provisional and temporary measures. Let us please ensure that we continue to invest in the white sector in 2020, including with the next budget, with a subsequent government agreement. Looking after who cares benefits all of us. That's actually investing in all of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u189	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u190	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (714/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (714/4) Löjintitulé and néerlandais a été modifié par la commission and a draft law establishing a Health Care Staff Fund.' The title in Dutch was changed by the Committee in a proposal for a law establishing a Health Care Staff Fund." The bill has 5 articles. The bill has 5 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u191	Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u192	Sustained: the amendment and Article 4.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u193	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled, the article that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u194	By letter of 29 October 2019, the Attorney General shall send documents to the Court of Appeal of Ghent to allow the Chamber, in application of Article 59 of the Constitution, to allow any prosecutions to be made by one of our colleagues. By letter dated 29 October 2019, the Attorney General of the Ghent Court of Appeal provided documents to enable the Chamber to possibly authorize prosecution of one of our colleagues under article 59 of the Constitution. In accordance with Rule 160 of the Rules of Procedure, the documents are referred to the Prosecution Committee. In accordance with Rule 160 of the Rules of Procedure, the documents shall be sent to the Commission for Persecutions. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u195	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 10 July 2019, an appeal for candidates was published in the Belgian Monitor of 22 July 2019 for the terms of office of a member of the Board of Directors of the Human Rights Institute. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 10 July 2019, a call for candidates for the mandates of a member of the Board of Directors of the Human Rights Institute appeared in the Belgian Official Journal of 22 July 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u196	Actual members Effective members
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u197	Academic world
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u198	Francophone applicants
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u199	French-speaking candidates - Mr Olivier De Sniper, Professor at the ′′UCLouvain′′
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u200	Dutch-speaking applicants
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u201	Dutch-speaking candidates
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u202	Judicial world
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u203	Francophone applicants
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u204	French-speaking candidates
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u205	Dutch-speaking applicants
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u206	Dutch-speaking candidates
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u207	Civil society
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u208	Francophone applicants
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u209	French-speaking candidates - Mr Hajib El Hajjaji, Vice-President of the ′′Collectif contre l.o.b.Islamophobie′′ - Mr Bernard Garcez, Head of Legal Service of the Intercommunale du Brabant allon'
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u210	Dutch-speaking applicants - Mr. Yves Aerts, co-ordinator.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u211	- Mr Martin Vanden Hende, pensioner, former director OBRA/BAKEN - Mrs. Kati Verstrepen, Director of the League for Human Rights Dutch-speaking candidates - Mr Yves Aerts, coordinator çavaria
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u212	Francophone applicants
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u213	Dutch-speaking applicants
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u214	Dutch-speaking candidates
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u215	Alternate members Alternates
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u216	Francophone applicants
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u217	French-speaking candidates
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u218	Dutch-speaking applicants
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u219	Dutch-speaking candidates
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u220	Judicial world
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u221	Francophone applicants
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u222	French-speaking candidates
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u223	Dutch-speaking applicants
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u224	Dutch-speaking candidates
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u225	Civil society
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u226	Francophone applicants
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u227	- M. Pol Thibaut, urbanist French-speaking candidates
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u228	Dutch-speaking applicants
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u229	Dutch-speaking candidates
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u230	Francophone applicants
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u231	French-speaking candidates
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u232	Dutch-speaking applicants
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u233	Dutch-speaking candidates
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u234	In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 11, § 1, of the Act of 12 May 2019 establishing a Federal Institute for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights, at least one member must be able to provide proof of his or her knowledge of German.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u235	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents on 2 October 2019, candidates will be heard in the Justice Committee. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 2 October 2019, candidates will be heard in the Committee for Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u236	You have taken note of the list of proposals that have been requested for consideration in the last agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I shall consider it to be taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider it accepted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u237	Mr President, I would like to ask the urgency of the legislative proposal No. 773 amending Article 21 of the preceding Title of the Code of Criminal Procedure. In the law passed two weeks ago, there appears to have been an error that could have serious consequences, should the amending law enter into force immediately without a correction being made. I think it is necessary for us to be able to discuss this proposal in the Committee on Justice at high speed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u238	I do not have to speak, but it seems to me to be a very fair question. Everyone's heard what it's about. Who agrees with the urgency of the bill?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u239	Vote on Amendment No 5 by Khalil Aouasti cs to Article 2. (489/8) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Khalil Aouasti cs on Article 2. (489/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 36 Yes No. 72 No Abstentions 28 Abstensions Total 136 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u240	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Mr Khalil Aouasti wished to justify his vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u241	Mr President, on behalf of the PS Group, I am going to express my abstention with regard to the failure to adopt the amendment which was tabled in advance, considering that there is a legal weakness, as I indicated in my statement in the course of the debate. This weakness could lead to a problem relating to the principle of presumption of innocence, which might not be respected if the proposal were adopted as such.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u242	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 123 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 13 Abstensions Total 136 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (489/9) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (489/9) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u243	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u244	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on this vote, my group will show responsibility. Given the budgetary context, we will not vote against it. Personally, I will abstain because we are not fools. We know that it was possible to claim more in terms of provisions. That is why we want to take the lead and express our scepticism about the methods used by the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u245	Mr President, for the record, we shall abstain. That wasn't quite clear to most people just now. We absolutely want the sector to pay, even if we consider the amount to be far too low.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u246	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes 77 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 60 Abstensions Total 137 Total As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (635/5) Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (635/5) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u247	Vote on Amendment No 5 by Yoleen Van Camp on article 4. (714/5) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Yoleen Van Camp in Article 4. (714/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[41]] Yes No. 86 No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u248	I would like to take this opportunity to wish you a happy birthday, Mr Bertels, without wishing to influence you, because it is not often that people vote on their own proposal on their own birthday. Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 137 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 137 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (714/6) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (714/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-21-55-plenair-ip014x.u249	We must approve the agenda for the next sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for the next sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 28 November 2019 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, November 28, 2019 at 2:15 p.m.
