ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u2	By letter dated October 3, 2019, the Prime Minister transmits a copy of the Royal Order of October 2, 2019 entitled "Government – Resignation – Appointment – Amendment". By letter dated 3 October 2019, the Prime Minister shall transmit a copy of the Royal Decree of 2 October 2019, entitled "Government of the Federal Republic of Germany'.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u3	By letter dated 18 September 2019 Mr.Jean-Marc Nollet announced his resignation from today. The alternate to replace him is Laurence H annoine, an alternate from the electoral district of Hainaut. By letter dated 18 September 2019, Mr Jean-Marc Nollet announced his resignation as of today. The successor who will replace him is Mrs. Laurence Hennuy, successor to the Hainaut constituency. Mr Wouter Beke, Ms Zuhal Demir and Mr Jan Jambon were sworn in as a member of the Flemish Government. Mr Wouter Beke, Mrs Zuhal Demir and Mr Jan Jambon took the oath as a member of the Flemish Government. Article 59 of the Special Act of 8 August 1980 on Institutional Reform provides that the member of the House of Representatives elected as a member of the Walloon Government, of the Government of the French Community or of the Flemish Government shall immediately cease to sit and resume his or her term of office when his or her functions as Minister cease. Article 59 of the Special Law of 8 August 1980 on the reform of the institutions provides that a member of the Chamber of Representatives elected as a member of the Flemish Government, of the Walloon Government or of the French Community Government shall immediately cease to hold office and resume his term of office when his office as Minister ceases. Article 1bis of the Act of 6 August 1931 establishing incompatibilities and prohibitions concerning ministers, former ministers and ministers of State, as well as members and former members of the Legislative Chambers provides that the member of the House of Representatives who ceases to sit as a result of his appointment as Minister or Secretary of State of the Federal Government or as a result of his election as Minister or Secretary of State of a regional or community government shall be replaced by the first alternate in good order of the list on which he was elected. Article 1a of the Law of 6 August 1931 determining the incomparencies and disqualifications concerning ministers, former ministers and ministers of State, and the members and former members of the legislative chambers provides that a member of the Chamber of Representatives who ceases to sit as a result of his appointment as Minister or State Secretary of the Federal Government or his election as Minister or State Secretary of a regional or community government shall be replaced by the first eligible successor to the list on which he was elected. Today we therefore proceed to the admission and swearing-in of the following alternates: - Ms Laurence Hmente, alternate from the Ecolo list in the electoral district of Hainaut, replacing Mr Jean-Marc Nollet; - Mr. Wim Van der Donckt, alternate of the N-VA list for the electoral district of Antwerp, replacing Mr. Jan Jambon; - Mr. Joy Donné, alternate of the N-VA list for the electoral district of Limburg, replacing Ms. Zuhal Demir. We shall therefore now proceed to the admission and swearing-in of the following successors: - Ms Laurence Hennuy, successor to the Ecolo electoral circle of Hainaut, in place of Mr Jean-Marc Nollet; - Mr Wim Van der Donkt, successor to the N-VA list of the Antwerp constituency, in place of Mr Jan Jambon; - Mr Joy Donné, successor to the N-VA list of the Limburg constituency, in place of Mrs Zuhal Demir. Mr Steven Matheï, successor to the Limburg constituency's CD&V list, in place of Mr Wouter Beke, has informed me that for medical reasons he is in no position to take his oath today. His oath will take place at a next meeting. The credentials of these alternates were validated in our meeting on June 20, 2019. The credentials of these successors were declared valid at our meeting of 20 June 2019. Since the supplementary verification, provided for in article 235 of the Electoral Code, relates only to the preservation of the conditions of eligibility, it appears that this verification, in the light of the documents obtained, has only a character of purely formality. Since the additional examination provided for in Article 235 of the Code of Choice refers exclusively to the maintenance of the eligibility requirements, in the light of the documents obtained, it is a mere formality in the present circumstances. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. I would point out that the members elected by the electoral colleges in the French-speaking region are members of the French linguistic group and the members elected by the electoral colleges in the Dutch-speaking region are members of the Dutch linguistic group. I would remind you that the members chosen by the electoral colleges belonging to the French language area are part of the French language group and that the members chosen by the electoral colleges belonging to the Dutch language area are part of the Dutch language group. Je rappelle les termes du serment: "Je jure d'observer la Constitution" "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." I recall the words of the oath: "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Your judge d'observer la Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." I ask Mrs Laurence H annoyed to take the constitutional oath. I would ask Mrs Laurence Hennuy to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u4	Mrs. Laurence H annoyance will be part of the French language group. Mrs Laurence Hennuy will be part of the French language group. I ask Mr Wim Van der Donckt to take the constitutional oath. I would ask Mr Van der Donkt to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u5	Mr Wim Van der Donckt will be a member of the Dutch language group. Mr Wim Van der Donkt will be part of the Dutch language group. I ask Mr. Joy Donné to take the constitutional oath. I would ask Mr Joy Donné to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u6	Mr. Joy Donné will be a member of the Dutch language group. Mr Joy Donné will be part of the Dutch language group. Mr Steven Matheï's oath was postponed to another meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u7	By message of 23 September 2019, the Flemish Parliament announced that it had constituted itself at today's sitting. By letter dated 23 September 2019, the Flemish Parliament informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u8	Minister, first of all, I would like to congratulate you, because you are still here, while several of your colleagues have chosen the path. It's a pleasure for you. I come to my question. The guards in the Antwerp prison have been laying the work down for almost a week now. I understand that their colleagues from Leuven Central have also put the work to work today out of solidarity. They are tired of not listening to their justified desires for years. They are tired of becoming less attractive and of cutting their pension rights. They're tired of taking their vacation, too. I've been talking to guards who owe me more than five months' vacation, but they just can't pick up. According to trade union figures, the total number of days at national level is 540,000. In addition, they are tired of increasing the workload. This, on the one hand, is a result of the overpopulation. In Antwerp there is room for 450 inmates, while now there are almost 700 inmates in custody. On the other hand, it is a result of understaffing. When the strike broke out last Friday, there was a shortage of 21 guards on a frame of 50. That was the proverbial drop that led to the strike. My question to you, Minister, is therefore very clear. When will the government finally work towards a definitive, well-founded solution to the legitimate aspirations of the guards? Of course, it must be linked to sufficient financial resources.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u9	Mrs Dillen, thank you, first of all, for your congratulations. Mr Francken reminds me of the spell of the House of Orange, which also became Nassau's spell. She's an excuse me, unfortunately, in French, but I like to use them myself: you maintiendrai. The prison in Antwerp is one of the best in the country, not in terms of infrastructure. I'm aware of that. Blue Gate is however under construction. The climatology of that prison is of great concern to me. I know them pretty well, too. I received the unions last week. I informed them that they were welcome at any time. Their question was to be allowed to work in a strike regime. This means that every other day there is a walk and every other day there is a visit. For the time being, I have chosen not to give in to that request. Indeed, such a regime opens the way in many prisons to apply it all the time, as soon as there are a few staff in the operational framework too short. May I say that the operational framework plus six is in place in Antwerp? That's not bad. May I also point out that it is very difficult to find penitentiary agents in Flanders today? I've been doing my utmost to find them for over two years. I will also remain in consultation with the trade unions all the time, so that the situation does not get worse. However, for our prisoners, I do not like the staff moving too quickly to a strike regime when they are supposedly working. That's not what I understand under a good prison regime. How come we find staff so difficult? Everyone's talking about the efficacy level. Especially in Flanders, that is what is being done. This is probably due to a very tight labour market. We have speeded up the Selor procedure infinitely and we are trying to make the job as attractive as possible. The prison statute or the statute of penitentiar agent, compared to other statutes, is not as bad as you claim. I don't want to go into that. After all, that is a difficult discussion. However, there is a large outflow, because so many other safety professions in the labour market are competing with the prison sector. I am thinking of the private security sector and customs. So it's hard to "retain" people, as it's called nowadays.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u10	Minister, I am disappointed by your answer. When the government will work on a proper statute, for example, so that these people can take their leave, you will make the profession more attractive and then you will make young people feel attracted to the job again. The Flemish interest will continue to strive to work out a definitive solution for all the righteous aspirations of the guards. We will continue to knock on that nail, in the interests of all concerned, of course in the first place of the guards, and at the same time I would like to stress this in the interest of the detainees. They have been sitting on their cell for almost a week; they have no visitors; they are not allowed to go for a walk; they are not allowed to shower and so forth. That is a civilized country like ours, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u11	Mr President, for my first oral question I have a cheating note with me. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, last week an article on the Het Laatste Nieuws website was devoted to the early release of Michel Lelièvre. The corresponding poll is clear: 86 percent of the population opposes the early release of Lelièvre. The reactions are not from the cat either. I quote: 'Vengeance and a jaw blow for the families who have been taken from their loved ones'. "If that was really the maximum they can lock up a psychopath for such crimes, there's a problem with the law." "I am ashamed to be Belgian. Belgium is a sick country." As the mother of four young children, I have exactly the same reaction. The criminal court in Brussels decided to release Michel Lelièvre, Marc Dutroux's companion. Lelièvre got 25 years in prison in 2004 as a member of the Dutroux gang. He was found guilty, among other things, of torture and imprisonment of four girls, two of whom did not survive and the other two were signed for life. The Criminal Court is now releasing Lelièvre. Normally, he was supposed to be in jail until 2021. Flemish Interest opposes this systematic erosion of the penalties imposed, the result of a naive and worldly vision that has kept justice policy under its control for years. This vision leads to an increasing frustration among the criminal courts, who increasingly see their role reduced to that of a flowerpot. They feel impotent and have hardly any control over the future fate of most of the criminals they get.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u12	Mrs. Bury, you need to come to your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u13	Yes. In addition, child killers, rapists and anyone who assists them should be given effective life imprisonment. A system that assumes that such criminals still have to be rehabilitated is naive and undermines the full deterrent effect of adequate penalties.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u14	Mrs. Bury, you need to ask your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u15	Yeah, okay. It is one of the reasons why the Flemish Interest wants to abolish the law on conditional release, formerly the Lejeune Act. Mr Minister, how far have the plans, which were included in the first Dutroux report, been made, to abolish fully the law on conditional release, formerly the Lejeune Act, and replace it with a system of, among other things, uncompromising penalties for such crimes?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u16	Once again, I have been a little milder because it was your first speech, for which I congratulate you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u17	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the Dutroux case took place many years ago and caused our society to be in shock. The worst thing happened then. There is no discussion about that. Those concerned have been punished, but at some point the inevitable end of punishment comes. That's awfully hard because how do you deal with that as a society? That is a very difficult issue. Today we find that Lelièvre served 23 of his 25 years. The criminal court has ruled that the man may be released if he fulfils a number of conditions. I share the commotion that has arisen, and it is also understandable, because if such a person does not have to serve his full sentence, then who does? That's a very logical question. I'm also Mommy of Four and I understand the commotion. There are two answers to that question. Either we are going on the gigantic populist tour, we are in favour of abolishing the Lejeune Act and letting everyone serve their sentence in full. One must realise that sexual offenders like to serve their sentence completely because they can leave the prison gate uncontrolled, without anyone watching. This is the other side of the coin which must be taken into account. There is also another solution possible. This solution may be less obvious, but it may make it possible to combine interests. One can argue for keeping a person in prison as long as possible because a punishment must be a punishment, but at the same time one can also work towards a probation. In this way one offers perspective and can be fully controlled afterwards, keep an eye on things. We have that solution, it is the provision of the criminal justice court. This can be done for five, ten or fifteen years, or even longer if necessary. In this way, we remain under the control of the court and protect society much better against repeated crime. However, there is one problem, because in your new penal code you really want to abolish the TBS system. I believe that the Lelièvre case is a good coat rack to check whether this is a good idea. Wouldn't it be better if we kept the TBs? In this way we can encourage parole, but at the same time we can also punish and keep an eye on protecting society as it should. I look forward to your answer because I'm looking forward to seeing what you're going to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u18	Mr President, it is my pleasure to congratulate Mrs Bury on her maiden speech. Mrs Bury, I had hoped you would not be ashamed of Belgium, but I am a little proud to read in the newspaper today that a serial killer from the 1990s has been exposed by the new DNA techniques. I am also a little proud of the fact that legislative proposals are put forward in this House, which advocate the inevitability of sexual crimes, and there is a Minister of Justice somewhere who says that this might not be such a bad idea. I don't think you should paint too black a picture of our criminal law. We have also introduced the security period in the past legislature, which allows the court to determine the minimum period to be carried out immediately when the sentence is passed. I am not going to comment on this decision, but there would be few ground judges who would say that at least 23 years should be served under a 25-year sentence. Not only because the law doesn't allow it, but also because they would ask themselves if that's the right way, if the punishment is 25 years, which I don't intervene in. First of all, may I say that the Court of Assists had not ruled out any posting. It could have been, but it didn't happen. I would like to speak in the Committee on Justice about the opportunity of posting. There are three possibilities. Firstly, the provision that can only be imposed by the court of the ground. Secondly, the provision that can be imposed on the route by the criminal execution judge and the course. Thirdly, as the experts advocate, there is no provision in general. I've met a lot of people in prison who've been posted. After a penalty of 20 years another 15 years, that does not immediately create prospects for improvement. We must therefore think carefully about this. Furthermore, what is too little known is that when a person is released on probation, for example after 23 years and for the time being, a lot of strict conditions are imposed, but the probationary period also runs five to ten years after the conditions have been imposed, i.e. longer than the initial penalty. Perhaps that's something you missed in your course earlier, Mrs. Bury. So that is not insignificant, because it means that one can hold on to one's reins much longer than he is held on by the end of a sentence. We are allowed to have this debate. I am open to this, as you will notice, but I would not like it to be carried out in a way that you have used the word 'naïve' three times in your questions, which is naive. If you don't mind my saying so, Mrs. Bury. But once again, congratulations.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I read interviews and questions yesterday all afternoon, which Mrs Pas had already addressed to you. Something has already happened in this matter. This dossier is very sensitive in Belgium and could have been used to finally develop a different approach for rapists, murderers and anyone who assists them. Lelièvre, as a concrete example, never expressed sincere regret, let alone really told us exactly how the abductions went. Never told him why he hadn't freed those girls at the time when Dutroux wasn't there. He never answered the many questions of the parents who lost their children. What are we supposed to think about his ability to be released back into society? Indeed, we can see that the spirits have matured in the meantime. N-VA and sp.a submitted a bill to stop the statute of limitations on sexual abuse offences. A few years ago, the bill of the Flemish Interest to extend the limitation period to 50 years was voted down by the same sp.a and N-VA. I am pleased to have heard from your reply that we are going to have this debate in the coming months and that this will finally result in the abolition of this law.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Unfortunately, I haven't been naive in a long time. Your response to your reference to the security period doesn't convince me. It doesn't solve the problem, of course. The problem is, there's no post-control. There used to be champs driving around in the neighborhood and keeping an eye on things. We could still do that back then. I can't do that anymore today. We, as legislators, have the task of ensuring that there is a champion again, and we must give them the tools to be able to play for champetter, with appropriate bodies. The criminal court is perfectly capable of doing so. He knows that. I am proud that we have a proposal to solve this problem. The current DNA legislation has also been mentioned by our group in the Chamber. Minister, I hope that soon I will also be proud of your support for us and that you will support our bill on the extension of the posting. In this way, we can do what is expected of us, in particular to give the judges the tools to protect our society as much as possible. 'Cause that's what it's about.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u21	Mr President, Minister, as you said, the ways of justice are incomprehensible. Over the last few weeks, we have been able to see how a CEO's search was carried out because she is suspected of earning EUR 6 000 by selling insider shares. That research is still ongoing today and it is even so bad that this leads to bread robberies at one of the best CEOs our companies have ever known. This on the one hand. On the other hand, I am also talking about "on the other hand," which does not often happen in my party... [[President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).]] On the other hand, Minister, five files on money laundering, bribes and corruption were submitted on 2 April 2019 by a former State Security Inspector, I will not mention his name, and not in the least: moving from the National Administrative Centre, building the Embassy in Kinshasa, the Libyan billions, to which we enjoy princely pleasures, and Kazachgate. Those complaints are about a minister and about top apparachiks from our device. Those files were submitted on 2 April and dismissed on 27 September, ladies and gentlemen, listen carefully, without any investigative action being carried out. I checked that out. Today we have to note that the inspector indicting this corruption and his family have received death threats, not from the least people, but from people who are members of the P Committee. The law of 5 September 2013 provides for the possibility of lodging a complaint, but until now there is no legal protection for whistleblowers. On 16 April 2019, the European Parliament shall request a legal regime for the protection of whistleblower. He's still not here. Wonderfully, on 3 May, a certain Minister Reynders in the Council of Ministers put down a preliminary draft to better protect classified information and muzzle the press, the opposite of what the European Parliament is asking for. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. What progress has been made on adapting Belgian legislation to the European directive on the protection of whistleblowers? What progress has been made with the preliminary draft on the protection of classified information?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u22	Mr Dedecker, I have not said today that the ways of justice are inscrutable, but if it pleases you, I would like to admit that those of God are inscrutable. However, I am not speaking on the subject of justice. Whistleblowers appear in a law of 2013, which was perfected in 2019. The European directive you are referring to will be definitively adopted in Luxembourg next Monday, and that has not yet been adopted by the Council. It will then have to bring about an adjustment of Belgian law within a year or two. I would like to point out that this is national legislation for the public sector, which in Belgium protects people against disciplinary sanctions against their own authority and against the loss of pension rights. That protection extends over the dismissal, voluntary or forced, of course. So at the moment there is already a certain level of protection in Belgium. With regard to the accusations made by a certain gentleman against justice, against members of the executive or even against members of the Committee I, I am prevented by a dual separation of powers: on the one hand, with the judiciary, which is independent, and on the other hand, with the Parliament, which has the power of a certain guardianship over the Committee I. Finally, with regard to the attitude of the government and the Minister responsible, Mr Reynders in particular, to classified information, there has been an in-depth discussion between the press representatives and the Reynders cabinet and there has also been consultation with my cabinet. We will adapt the legislation in preparation to ensure the best possible enforcement of source secrecy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u23	Thank you, Minister. I understand the separation of powers, but I also use the saying "your maintiendrai." The intention to protect whistleblowers is nowhere in Belgium. I can read it to you: "Only ten EU Member States currently offer appropriate legal protection for whistleblowers," the European Parliament reported in mid-April. Belgium is not one of them. This costs EUR 9.6 billion annually, according to the European Commission's study, for Europe and not just for us. Secondly, I would also like to say something about the preliminary draft law. It lies with the Council of State and was shot off there because it is felt that freedom of expression is being too restricted. The Committee I has already expressed its views on this. It is absolutely time to work on that. It is unacceptable that top officials, people who have worked for the security of the state, should be threatened with death and that nothing should happen to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u24	Mr President, Minister, in your capacity as Minister of Justice and Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to ask you three questions about the silent state reform that is taking place on the Flemish side. My first question concerns the granting of social rights. According to several experts in the field of social security, the restriction on the granting of rights to the Flemish Care Cash may conflict with Article 23 of the Constitution. That could be unconstitutional. Do your services follow this legislation and transpose it into decrees? In the event of unconstitutional aspects slipping into the decrees on the granting of social rights, are you, as Minister of Justice, with the Council of Ministers, prepared to go to the Constitutional Court for an application for annulment? My second question concerns the various Ministers for Justice. You are a Federal Minister of Justice, but for a week now we have a Flemish Minister of Justice. The question is how many Justice Ministers this country needs in your federal vision? Should we have two, three or four, such as the four climate ministers and the four energy ministers? Will four Justice Ministers ensure greater efficiency? How will you guarantee efficiency in a further division in this area? My third point concerns the climate. I read in the new Flemish coalition agreement that there is a one-sided desire to reduce the climate target to 80% reduction. You also know that the climate ambitions have so far been inter-federally guaranteed in consultation. Whether it is about granting social rights, about justice or about climate ambitions, I notice that certain parts of our country are imposing a kind of conflict model that will certainly lead to conflicts of jurisdiction. I ask your views on this matter. Are you, as Minister of Justice, prepared to go to the Constitutional Court, possibly through the Council of Ministers, to have unconstitutional decrees destroyed?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u25	Mr Mertens, you have underestimated your question, because I must now comment almost on the entire Flemish coalition agreement. That's 319 pages thick. I read it in two versions, this one from the VRT and the official one, so I need to be a little careful. As far as the substance of the matter is concerned, it has been said that discrimination on social benefits has been seriously tested both in European law and in constitutional law. I do not doubt the seriousness of those who have prepared this agreement. I have not yet done so, but you know that governments in this country sometimes go to the Constitutional Court against decisions of another entity. That is perfectly conceivable, but at first sight I do not think it is necessary to do so, given the prior thorough preparations. As for your question about a Community Minister of Justice, the following. without having the courage to put this issue into perspective, I would point out that the powers conferred on the Flemish Minister of Justice are powers previously exercised by the Flemish Minister of Welfare. My good ex-colleague Jo Vandeurzen had that authority until yesterday. Over the last five years, we have met twice a year at an inter-ministerial conference on justice houses, up to Eupen, Brussels or Antwerp, in order to secure inter-ministerial cooperation in the field of justice. Flemish powers have not been extended. They are now being centralised under a new Flemish minister, my former federal colleague Zuhal Demir, and I look forward very much to working with her. Finally, if I have read the agreement correctly, the justice houses are, by the way, housed with the Flemish Prime Minister, at the Chancery. So I now have two contact points in Flanders, both of which I am particularly familiar with. I am very pleased about the forthcoming cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u26	Minister, I am pleased that your services will carefully examine the various decrees on the possible unconstitutionality. That's very important. In substance, I believe that no one in our country is waiting for four climate ministers, four energy ministers and four justice ministers. A Minister of Justice is more than enough, dear Minister of Justice. While this Parliament is running out a little while, while there are party chairmen, whom you should know very well, who choose eggs for their money and choose another Parliament, while there are ministers in this House who are bought by the Flemish Government, may we in the Federal Parliament ask ourselves who is the janitor of this Parliament in the coming period? Who will ensure that all Belgians are granted their constitutional rights? Who will ensure that no one is discriminated against throughout the territory? Who ensures that there are no states that can impose their conflict model against the Belgian government with a distribution and control policy? This is the Belgian Parliament, and we must also send a signal from here that we will not apply the principle of distribution and control at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u27	Mr Mertens, I am not going to speak on the content of your speech, but I would like to congratulate you on your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u28	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Justice, we come back to a federal jurisdiction: prisons. Yesterday, the Sypol-EPI union reported a very worrying reality in prisons, that 5 per cent of prisoners would act as law officers in prisons. To legislate for these 5% of prisoners, dangerous and psychopaths according to this union, this means insulting agents with impunity, getting up whenever you want, possibly putting pressure on other detainees. This simply means doing the rule inside the walls of the prison. Deputy Prime Minister, we can obviously worry, like the union, about the ability of these people, if the facts are proven, to reintegrate. Moreover, according to the union, the TAP would not be informed of these facts in prisons since the guards would no longer make such reports. The union also said that it was at your disposal to provide you with all the specific information on the subject. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, have you made contact with this union? If so, what information has been provided to you? If the information has been provided to you, is there any isolated fact in a prison in the country or in several? If these facts are known and if there has been contact, have you ever considered measures to combat this phenomenon? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u29	Mr Goffin, this question is, it is true, delicate. Following statements by Sypol delegates in Sudpresse that "in prison 5 per cent of detainees impose their law", my administration confirmed that this was a generalization of a few individual cases. The points raised would be false or distorted. The decision on the regime to which these detainees are subjected is taken at the level of the regional management, the South Directorate, in this case. The prison staff are aware of this, and it is not a question of laxity but of individualized management of the situation. The information that the administration would release these difficult inmates on their own request should also be denied. These are almost always persons sentenced to more than three years' imprisonment. This means that only the enforcement court is competent to grant release. The PAT systematically analyses contraindications to release, such as the danger of recidivism and the danger of the individual. I'm not used to communicating here about the people I'm going to receive in the future, not even the unions. But if they ever asked me, in a more or less official way, I would be quite willing to receive them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u30	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you. Your answer doesn't call for a long reply. I note that you are attentive to the situation. You are referring to the fact that we are faced with clearly isolated cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u31	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a week ago, the Lubrizol plant near Rouen, France, caught fire. It is a company classified Seveso high threshold. A cloud potentially loaded with toxic dust thus arrived in Belgium and hit the province of Hainaut for a period of about six hours. Two levels of pollution were therefore to be feared: on the one hand, air pollution and, on the other hand, soil pollution following dust spills. Since Thursday, various steps have been taken at Walloon level by the Minister of the Environment, who has mobilised the Walloon Air and Climate Agency (AwAC) and the teams of the Interregional Environment Cell (CELINE). For its part, the federal level has been silent in all languages while it has a central role to play. As a result, Belgian citizens had to wait more than 24 hours to be informed. Minister, a number of issues remain to date. Why has the Federal Crisis Centre not taken the initiative in managing and communicating this environmental emergency? Isn't that his role? What air quality analyses have been conducted? Was it a classic control or a targeted control in relation to the specifics of the Lubrizol plant? In other words, are we sure that no toxic substances have been able to escape air quality control today? Has AFSCA been requested by the federal authorities to test soil pollution, as is the case in France? If so, when can we expect to be aware of the results?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u32	Mr.President, Madame de Laveleye, on September 26, 2019, a fire broke out on a Seveso site in Rouen, France. Our National Crisis Centre (NCCN) has been informed directly by the Operational Centre for Interministerial Crisis Management in France (COGIC), proving the proper functioning of the communication procedure between neighbouring countries. The COGIC message indicated that there was no risk to our country. When the information appeared in the media reporting an impact in Belgium, the National Crisis Centre followed its internal procedure and undertook the necessary actions to verify that information. The National Crisis Centre contacted various provincial and regional authorities. Emergency areas and 112 emergency centres potentially affected by the smoke cloud were also warned. They did not identify any response actions related to the Rouen fire from Thursday, September 26 to Monday, September 30, 2019. In view of this situation, civil protection has not carried out any tasks in the context of the potential consequences of this accident, as no request for intervention has been requested by the public authorities, since no phase has been triggered. It should be recalled that environmental matters, which are soil and air pollution, are a regional competence and that, therefore, the National Crisis Centre has taken note of the communication from the Interregional Environmental Cell concerning the fire in Rouen. I quote: "After further analysis, the impact of the Rouen fire was measurable in some situations and, in all the measuring stations, a slight increase in black carbon (sweet) concentrations was observed during a short period on 26 September." It is clear that the Crisis Centre continues to monitor the situation and remains ready to organize coordination if the situation so requires.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u33	I would ask both the questioner and the Minister to work without pre-written texts. That makes the debate much more lively. But this is your first intervention. I congratulate you on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u34	Minister, thank you. It is understood that the National Crisis Centre has assumed its responsibilities. We still find that there was a waste of time between the Walloon intervention and the federal intervention. I must not remind you, Minister, that we have 395 Seveso sites in Belgium. We are therefore entitled to ask ourselves whether our management of possible crises, both within and outside our territory, is optimal. Both farmers and citizens have been and are still in demand for faster, more efficient and more transparent information to reassure everyone within time frames that would allow for greater public tranquillity.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u35	Mr Minister, organising security in our country is the central task of the federal government. Yesterday, in the Committee on the Interior, we had a hearing on the optimisation of the federal police. There's good news and bad news. The good news is that the federal police are working more efficiently because of optimization, but the bad news is that the federal police are just too few people. Because of the focus on terror, which is right today, it cannot tackle other phenomena, such as organised crime. The reality is that the local police are helping federal police today, while the law says it has to be the other way around. There are still soldiers on the streets, while the DAB was set up just before these tasks; the staff there have still not replaced our military. The outflow from the police is bigger than the influx. This will ensure that fewer people will ensure our safety in the long term. The famous recruitment system runs a little limp and doesn't work fast enough. So there are far too few people coming in. Sometimes it turns out to be up to a year from the moment a candidate signs up until the moment the person in question is admitted to the police school. As a result, people drop out and choose another job. Finally, new technology, which is widely available, is not being used enough by the police. Actually, the police completely missed the boat. Minister, if there is a new terrorist attack tomorrow, Mr Bruggeman referred to that example in committee yesterday, what will be done? What should also be done to tackle organised crime? What is the status of the DAB and when will its employees replace the soldiers on the street? How can we accelerate and increase the influx of new policemen in the coming months and years? What smart investments are still on the agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u36	Mr President, I will try to follow your consign and keep it short. Firstly, when I arrived at the end of December last year, there were a lot of yards that still had to be finished. These included the shortage of staff and resources, recruitment and selection, the sectoral agreement and the threat of terrorism. Progress has been made on each of them. I will not talk so much about the sectoral agreement reached, nor about the decision of the government, of which your party was a member, to keep the military in the street. I will not talk about the database to store data on terrorists, but I will talk about facial recognition. The latter is particularly important in the fight against terrorism. I rebooted that yard. The report, to which you refer and which Mr Bruggeman explained yesterday in the Committee on Home Affairs, dates from the period 2014-2018. I do not need to repeat that I am not very much in favour of opening up umbrellas, and I will take responsibility for this. As for recruitment, it was brought to a higher level. About 1 500 to 1 600 people were recruited. That is almost 400 more than my predecessor's policy. I would also draw your attention to aspirant mobility, which is to ensure that people can enter the zones immediately or into the service they have requested. Thanks to the storage of passenger data, 5 million people were checked at Zaventem airport last summer. This has never happened in the context of the fight against terrorism. About 100 people were effectively repertorated as a potential terrorist or a threat to our security. Of course, I agree with your demand for more resources. I hope that when the provisional appropriations are approved you will make a generous effort to increase the resources for the police. In any case, filtered information from the report should not be used wrongly to scare people. We have learned the necessary lessons since the terrorist threat. Additional recruitment has been provided and our policemen are doing a good job with the existing resources. Finally, I would like to admit that there is still room for improvement, but at least the report does not apply to the period that started in December 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u37	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Some yards have certainly made progress since you took over the department in December 2018. However, I would like to stress the need to speed up recruitment. There are examples of fast-track, currently carried out in Brussels and Flemish Brabant, in which candidates will be informed within a period of two to three weeks whether or not they can start training at the police school. We need to implement such good examples in a structural way, so that people no longer have to wait a year before they can start with the police, but only about a month, as in the private sector. I look forward to that progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u38	Madam Minister, first of all, let me say that I am very happy to ask you my first question of topicality, since you were still - two weeks ago - my supervising minister when I was working at Fedasil. Throughout the day, nurses run, provide care, handle patients and heavy loads, and coexist with the physical and moral pain of patients and their families. Sometimes, they are sadly at the side of death. They do so by trying to reconcile their privacy with their professional activity, given the complex schedules and guards they have to manage. Despite all their efforts, it must be noted that patients feel inadequately cared for and listened to. Sometimes they even express it aggressively towards those who try to practice their art, but who do not have enough means to do so. Minister, nurses are sick of it. Whether they work in a hospital or in a nursing home - or in a patient's home - they do so in unbearable conditions. More and more patients are taking care of themselves, more and more complex, and more and more responsibilities, as well as the flexibility required of them. As you know, staff suffer from a chronic shortage of staff and ongoing underfunding. Today, the press reports the unbearable situation of nurses at home. More generally, it is the working conditions of all nurses who are relayed - they have been shouting in the street for several months as part of the "white coats of arms". Minister, my questions will be simple. Do you hear that alarm cry that is made every Tuesday by the white blouses? Have you met with the relevant experts as well as the men and women in the sector? As you know, in the past, nurses have been listened to, as a broad plan of attractiveness has been developed. Do you think it is necessary to persevere? Do you think that new measures should be taken to enhance attractiveness and to make more resources available to those who exercise their art with humanity?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u39	Mr Rigot, I very much appreciate the work done by nurses in hospitals, at home or in nursing homes. There is no doubt that they must receive the recognition they deserve. Home-based nurses are becoming increasingly important as a result of aging, increased chronic care and shorter hospital stays. We must dare to question the main tasks of the nurse practitioner. The question is whether they are responsible for routine hygiene care. Should we not instead work with other providers such as caregivers and family support services? This would make it possible to adjust the remuneration of nurses taking into account their high level of competence. For five years, we have invested heavily in nursing as part of the social agreement. A budget of more than 400 million has been allocated to increase remuneration and to strengthen the second pillar of pensions. We have also adopted qualitative organisational measures and strengthened mobile teams by assigning them as a matter of priority additional resources from the tax shift. The Insurance Committee is currently developing a health care budget for 2020. In addition, it will be possible, in the course of the budgetary negotiations, to put certain emphasis and to direct available resources towards those sectors which need the most attention. You know I'm waiting for the opinion of the Insurance Committee. It's not up to me to decide. The process must follow its course, perhaps to Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u40	Minister, I'm glad to hear that you've heard, like us, that nurses are out of breath – it's a big deal for health care staff. All alerts are here. You say you've already released some funds. Obviously, they are still insufficient, as the workload is there, the shortage of staff is obvious, the screams on the street are echoing today. Please, Minister, it is essential that our nurses no longer suffer from the situation. They put their health at risk in order to provide quality care. When they are not sufficiently at the bedside of patients, when they are not large enough to provide quality health care, it is the whole patient, it is all citizens that are put in danger. This is not acceptable, and we must work on it now by real upgrading. You said it, it's essential. Please don't listen to this, because otherwise, Minister, you will remain the Minister of Health who will have just cut $2 billion in the health care budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u41	Mr Rigot, congratulations on your first speech in this rostrum.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u42	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have had some very bad news this morning. Vias reported that in the first half of this year 65 more people lost their lives on Belgian roads compared to the first half of last year. That is, of course, terrible, Minister, and you will agree with me, and perhaps everyone here, that any road deaths are too many. The government had committed itself to ensuring that by 2020 the number of fatalities would be halved compared to ten years ago. I checked it out. That ambition has barely been met halfway. We are on the wrong road in that regard. I am sorry to say this, Minister, but I am not surprised to see what policy you have pursued. The coalition agreement placed a very strong emphasis on tackling recidivists, people who go wrong time and time again and we have to get them off the road. What did you do? The introduction of the points driving licence is a measure that experts say is very efficient in removing repeaters from the road and rewarding people who comply with traffic regulations. You wiped that off the table. Meanwhile, there are 22 countries in the European Union where this was introduced. We're behind this. The Mercury database must be used by our police forces when they stop someone, to see if someone's license was revoked by the judge. This database has been there for two years, but is not operational due to staff shortages in ICT services. What did you do? Mr Bellot, you have examined whether the maximum speed on the Belgian motorways can be increased to 130 kilometres per hour, while everyone knows that the higher the speed limit, the higher the risk of fatalities. We should just get to the opposite! My question to you is very simple. Do you share my analysis? Do you still intend, in the coming weeks or months, to work on the implementation of a law that was passed in Parliament 30 years ago, namely the introduction of a driving licence with points?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, in recent hours we have received the Vias report, which is quite worrying with 306 deaths this first half of the year, knowing that this is an increase of 27% over the other years. It must be said that road safety is everyone's business. We're very concerned about her. These increases in deaths show that bikers, cyclists and motorists are affected as much as others, but in different proportions. It is also noted that two regions of the country, the Flemish Region and the Walloon Region, are affected in the same way. In addition, there has been an increase in the deaths of young motorists, while in the last four years there has been a decrease. Although we have a decrease in the number of wounded, we still find ourselves with a development that is negative, for the first time, in seven years, if I am not mistaken. My questions are very simple. Minister, do you have any information on the explanations of these results? What steps are you going to take to interpret them, including with the Regions that make up our country? Is the planned reduction target for 2020 still accessible? Finally, what actions will you take in the short, medium and long term?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, road safety is particularly important that it affects everyone on a daily basis, especially families who are experiencing real human tragedy. When I came to the responsibilities, I was part of the 2015 targets of the General States of Road Safety, which had a 50% reduction compared to 2010. The message of the General States was: "Together, we could do it." After seven consecutive years of decline, a 38% decrease in the number of deaths in 2011 and 2018, we were on track to reach the target, in particular because we implemented almost all of the 15 measures recommended in 2015. Among other things, we have increased penalties for repeat offenders, escape offences, as well as all relatively large penalties. Everyone has to accept their share of the responsibility. After all, road safety is a matter for many ministers, including the three regional mobility ministers for sensitisation, driving training and road infrastructure, the Minister of Justice for the prosecution and punishment and myself for the regulatory framework. In five years' time, relocation habits have changed as a result of the emergence of new displacement modes. For example, we have developed a legislative framework for speed pedals. It is important that we continue to adapt our approach on the basis of the new trends. That is why, after seven consecutive years of decline in the number of deaths, I call for the holding of new General States of Road Safety, as soon as possible, in 2020. It is necessary to analyse the causes in depth and to consult with us, the three regional ministers, my two federal colleagues in the interior and in the justice sector and myself, with a view to taking action to remedy the situation. As far as points are concerned, studies show that the Belgian legislative framework is one of the strictest in Europe, except for zero tolerance for inexperienced drivers. In the previous legislature, I tabled a proposal in this respect. We will have to take that step in the future. However, we can take the rules that we want: if there are no more roadside controls or proper application of the rules, that will not change. You're talking about Mercurius. It should be noted that half of the country's public prosecutor's offices are not yet feeding the database that has been set up. It will therefore be necessary to insist again and again on who is recidivist and who is serving heavy sentences. I will conclude with a reminder about alcoholocks, i.e. anti-start ethylotests for high alcohol concentrations. More than 1,000 motorists today have been sentenced to this type of punishment. These motorists can continue to drive but can only drive if they have not been drinking at all. Before that, they were taken off the license. It is known that a good proportion of them continued to ride because they had no alternative. The law, which is barely a year old, must be strengthened so that it can be fully implemented. We dare to hope that this will happen gradually. We have to keep going. It's a long-term job. There is a need to adapt to new phenomena on a permanent basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u45	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You refer to the responsibility of the regional ministers and of all of us. There is, of course. But I spoke to you on your responsibility. Honestly, your answer disappoints me. It is as disappointing as the policy you have pursued. Every day people die in traffic in Belgium. Their number has increased further this year. Every day, people get behind the wheel whose driving licence has been revoked and who still have zero percent chance of running into the lamp. Minister, I would ask you to take action against this, but it is quite clear that we should not count on you to do so. We'll have to do it ourselves. You can count on the sp.a Group to put forward proposals to improve road safety in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u46	Minister, thank you for your answers. After hearing you, I want to say that we must not ignore the results or your actions undertaken in recent years. Efforts must be continued. I fully understand that this is your will, since many initiatives have been taken, as we have seen regularly in the Committee on Infrastructure. Finally, given the seriousness of the subject, we must avoid slogans and simplistic answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u47	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, far from me the idea of throwing reproach on all CPAS. We have a model of CPAS that we often boast. You have often said that it should be exported. It is therefore also an opportunity to highlight the immense work that is being done, not only by social workers, but also by all the agents who simply contribute to more human dignity. If the law governing CPAS is exportable, the practices resulting from this law are not exportable at all. Today, as proof of this, I would like to point to a demonstration by the homeless who want to denounce the interpretation of the law, in particular the notion of homelessness. Indeed, homelessness does not mean just being on the street. Homelessness can also mean being temporarily accommodated with people who want to help on an ad hoc basis when a life accident occurs. However, some CPAS refuse to allow homeless persons, in a broad definition that is that of our law, to grant a reference address, thus preventing them from taking a whole series of administrative steps, in particular with a view to receiving income from social integration. Minister, are you aware of these situations that are corroborated by an inspection report of your services on the fact that there are indeed lightnesses with respect to the interpretation of the law? If so, what steps do you intend to take to ensure that the law is respected?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u48	Mr President, Mrs Matz, I would like to thank you from the outset for making the distinction and not, following a press article, to cast the reproach on all the CPAS which, as you have said, in their overwhelming majority, are doing quite an extraordinary job. It is essential that the homeless have access to the social and medical assistance needed for their reintegration into society. The reference address in this area is a very important tool that contributes to meeting these objectives. I am not going to go back to the work of the CPAS in this context. I just want to point out to you that obviously we are aware of the problem. For more than two years now, we have been working with the Department of the Interior and the Department for Combating Poverty on the reference address file. That's how I worked with Mr. Jambon, and now with Mr. From Crem. With regard to the fight against poverty, I was working with Mrs Demir, Mr Peeters, Mr Beke; and now Mrs Muylle has taken up the case. I will not hide from you that these changes at the level of the ministers in charge of the matter have considerably slowed down the updating of the circular that we have to produce in order to avoid problems of interpretation. The project we are undertaking, and I hope that this can be achieved quickly, is to update the reference address circular so that we can avoid the problems you have recalled. It is important to underline the crucial role played by the FPS social integration inspection services, which do not hesitate, in a number of cases, to reframe the CPAS when their interpretation does not correspond to the meaning of the legislation. Mr President, I will conclude by pointing out one point in relation to the claims that were brought forward this morning as part of the day devoted to these issues. The Common Front of the homeless, with which we regularly work, has presented new proposals and demands to dissociate social assistance from effective registration in the National Register. We take note of this and will, of course, examine it. Nevertheless, it should be recalled that the logic of social reintegration, through the reference address, remains a priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u49	Minister, thank you. I will probably not surprise you by telling you that the many changes within the government do not justify dozens of people on the street waiting - not just a circular. They do not have housing and are not entitled to social assistance. Objectively, therefore, I cannot hear that answer. Please excuse this trivial expression, but I ask you frankly to "put the package" to enforce this circular. It is important to make it impossible to interpret it, because it is the dignity of the people at stake.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u50	Minister, it has now been a week since the fire at the Lubrizol plant in Rouen took place. The health consequences of this major industrial disaster are not to be taken lightly. They are worrying the population, especially farmers. I do not want to be alarmist and I do not want to worry the population unnecessarily, but I wonder. Indeed, on Wednesday 2 October, the Prefect of Aisne took a prefectural order to restrict the marketing of products and crops pending health guarantees. The town of Hirson, ten kilometres from Momignies, near Chimay in the province of Hainaut, is listed. In this commune, eggs, honey, dairy products and farmed fish are recorded until the health risk assessment. Questions can therefore be asked about the municipalities bordering Wallonia. According to the AFSCA, the risk is negligible and arrangements must not be made. I'd like to understand. Indeed, following the farmers' request, relayed by the FUGEA last Monday, as to predictability and a clear position on the potentially harmful effects on our side of the border, the AFSCA remains very vague, very vague. Minister, can you make transparency about the health consequences of the fire? Do the smokes that have crossed Belgium – you know that the border does not stop them – have an adverse impact on the products of our agriculture? What steps have been taken by the AFSCA since the fire? Are you preparing precautionary measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u51	Mr Senesael, we often talk about this in committee: Belgian health is our common priority. I must remind you that the extremely important issue that you are raising today falls within the competence of the Walloon Region. The Commission is responsible for matters relating to air, water and soil pollution. As you know, the Walloon Minister of the Environment, Mrs Tellier, indicated on Sunday, on the basis of the elements in the possession of the Regional Centre of the Walloon Crisis, that air quality was good. She added that extensive soil analyses did not seem necessary given the dispersion of pollutants by rain and the small amount of pollutants that had reached Belgium. Even if the competence is regional, I have been making contact with my colleagues in the Environment and Health departments this weekend. A meeting was held in 16. The purpose was to indicate that the federal government was at the disposal of the Region and the regional crisis centre. This has been communicated. We have not received any information at this stage regarding any tests carried out by the Regional Centre of Walloon Crisis. No specific requests were also received from the regional centre. In this regard, I wrote to Minister Tellier to ensure that the federal departments concerned, including the AFSCA, were available. I am also learning today that the Walloon authorities have received the results of tests carried out by France. These tests concluded that there was no acute toxicity in the air, no asbestos and no ordinary pollutants in drinking water. I am not going to tell you that I am quite surprised that Mrs Tellier's services have not carried out their own tests, pending or in addition to the tests organised by the French authorities. I'm pretty surprised. As I speak to you, on the basis of information provided by the Walloon Regional Crisis Centre – in the front line and competent in the case – the risk of environmental contamination remains negligible in Belgium. The AFSCA has not received any additional applications in relation to initiatives that it is still prepared to take. I repeat that I am surprised that neither the regional centre nor Mrs Tellier took any initiative pending the French tests.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u52	Minister, thank you for your answers. I understand that Rouen's fire worries the population. It is known that this is a very important industrial disaster, as has been the case very little in recent decades. It is often recalled but this cloud of smoke was still impressive: 22 km long by 6 km wide. Five or six hours later, these first smokes were seen in Belgium and many testimonies in France reported diarrhea, nausea, vomiting. Minister, you are talking about the concern of the Walloon Crisis Centre, which was unable or unwilling to organize certain duties, but my question was more about agriculture and therefore the AFSCA. Surprisingly, on the one hand, the Crisis Centre recommends that we take precautions – wash food thoroughly, wash hands thoroughly, etc. – and that, on the other hand, the AFSCA tells us that there is nothing to fear, that everything is best in the best of the worlds. The public is therefore legitimately concerned and wants transparency and predictability. Finally, she intends to be reassured about the follow-up of these fumes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u53	The next item is Mr Anseuw's question to Minister De Backer on the deontology of inspection services. However, there is also a question on the same subject from Mrs Verhelst to Minister Muylle. The agreement between the ministers is that Minister Muylle will reply to both questions in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u54	Mr Anseuw, Minister De Backer says he will remain present. If there are any other matters relating to him, they will both answer the questions. I shall then give the floor to Mr Briers for his first intervention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u55	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Bpost and Proximus will each have a new CEO. The decision lies with the board of directors. They have a performant management, with nearly 40 000 engaged employees. Both CEOs, both Mr Van Gerven and Mrs Leroy, have done very meritorious work. We are welcome to say so. We are, of course, in favour of a modern governance framework for public enterprises. We are not going to interfere with the operational operation, but we may be a strong reference shareholder. Crucial remains their social role. If we see that at Proximus 900 jobs disappear to India, then that should get us thinking. At the same time, we see that Proximus' training rate has deteriorated over the last ten years. Innovation should stay with us. Minister, what is the state of affairs regarding the appointment of the two CEOs? What steps have the Boards of Directors taken? Is the sale of the shares by Mrs Leroy in accordance with the company's internal rules? Are the two CEOs entitled to an exit fee? The current CEO of Proximus wanted to leave for KPN immediately. Should the Governing Board impose a stricter non-compete obligation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u56	Mr President, Mr Briers, as you know, the search for and appointment of the two new CEOs is in the hands of the boards of both companies. At present, the Boards have appointed a headhunter who will have drawn up a longlist by the end of October. A shortlist is then made by the boards of directors, after which the assessments and discussions with the candidates can start. Hopefully we can both be clear by the end of the year. The sale of shares by Mrs. Leroy you asked for was at that time, with the information known then, usually with the Proximus Dealing Code. At the moment there is still a judicial investigation and an investigation by the FSMA, on which I will not pronounce as a minister. The contract with both CEOs was broken on a mutual basis and with mutual confidence. There's an ongoing search for new CEOs. Mrs Leroy is not entitled to an exit premium, so there is no discussion on this. There was no non-compete clause either. There was indeed a competitive clause in the contract, but this could not be invoked, given the following two conditions: not in Belgium with a telecom player and not in another country where Proximus achieves a turnover of more than 5%, which was not the case for the Netherlands. Nor do I think it is desirable to register stricter non-compete claws because they are very often limited to where those companies operate. Since that is primarily in Belgium, it seems to me to be the logic itself to limit it to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u57	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your brief and clear presentation. We remember that the social role for the 40,000 workers and their families is crucial. Both companies are essential for our people and our companies. In summary, unrest surrounding the appointment of the new CEOs is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u58	May I invite Minister Muylle? Mrs Muylle, I would like to begin by congratulating you on your appointment. There's a lot of mobility in the department.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u59	I propose that we depart from the order and first give the floor to Mr Anseeeuw and then to Mrs Verhelst.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u60	So Mr Anseeeuw has a question about avoiding fraud in the RVA, but he has described it slightly differently.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u61	Mr President, I have not, of course, described my question differently, but my question is about deontology and transcends the RVA. My question is primarily addressed to Minister De Backer, who is responsible for combating fraud. Mrs Muylle, you may of course always answer if you wish, but I am very liberal in those things. Minister, the integrity and deontology of those responsible for monitoring social fraud must never be called into question. Every official, in particular the social inspector, must be above all suspicion. Their actions must therefore be guided by values such as objectivity, loyalty to regulation and impartiality. Clear rules of conduct must ensure their deontological action. That code of conduct must, of course, also be maintained. We have seven social inspection services in this country and the inspection of the RVA is one of them. At the RVA there is the Directorate for Internal Control and Process Management, which is responsible, among other things, for overseeing the deontology of all employees of the RVA. Now it appears that a judicial investigation has been initiated into a social inspector of the RVA. We do not want to condemn the lady in question because it is up to a judge to decide. However, what is striking in this story is that the ball apparently did not roll because the RVA has called the alarm bell but because the federal police did so in this case. We therefore raise the issue of whether the internal control mechanisms of the RVA are adequate today to detect and address such forms of bribery and corruption. As far as we are concerned, there must be no doubt: anyone who fights social fraud on the ground every day must be protected and supported when he or she is put under pressure. However, anyone who cannot resist the temptation of corruption and bribery must also be detected as soon as possible. Minister, what specific mechanisms are being used within the internal control of the RVA, but also within the SIOD, the Social Intelligence and Investigation Service, to detect and address the various forms of corruption and bribery?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u62	Dear Minister, in recent years the government has invested a lot in the fight against social fraud, undeclared work, bogus self-employment, posting fraud, benefit fraud, and other abuses. Such matters have no place in a fair society, which we all deserve. Strong results have been achieved by this government. Last year, apparently, in the fight against social fraud, no less than 272 million euros were raised, a new record. It is therefore all the more painful that we should be aware today of a case of corruption in the social inspection services. When it comes to government corruption, we often think of abroad. It is therefore always frightening to see that corruption also occurs in Belgium. Belgium achieves 75% on the corruption index of Transparency International. That means 17th place, 180 countries. That's not bad, but the United Kingdom and Germany get 80%, the Netherlands get 82 % and Denmark even 88 %. So there is certainly still work to be done. The social inspection services, of course, carry out sensitive work. It is not implausible that they are occasionally approached by malicious persons and dangerous organisations. So we must not point the finger at them directly, but a thorough investigation is certainly necessary. We hope it was an isolated case in this case. Mr Minister, I come to my questions. Firstly, what internal mechanisms does the RVA use to avoid and detect such facts? Are these effective enough? Secondly, have there been such cases in the past where a social inspector committed corruption? Were measures taken against this? Thirdly, in the recent annual report of the RVA, we read that the service is working on renewing the deontological codes. What's the status? Fourthly, what additional measures do you consider necessary? Fifth and finally, we read that the person concerned was held inactive. Of course we respect the presumption of innocence, but if the facts are proven, what steps will be taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u63	Madam Secretary, you have the floor for your maiden speech as Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u64	Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for your questions. It is true that there is today an investigation into one of the social inspectors of the RVA, which is also part of a judicial investigation into breaches of professional secrecy and public bribery. The RVA was informed of this on 25 June 2019 by a pro-Justice search decision issued by the Dutch-speaking court of first instance in Brussels. All orders were given in the context of the investigation, including in the context of a search, in which all actions were made in the offices of the RVA with a view to all elements, documents and objects that could indicate or relate to facts as offender or party to public bribery or breach of professional secrecy. Allow me to stress that the RVA immediately took all the necessary action and measures. For example, computer access was immediately closed down on the same day. There was also a search, where a cell phone and a laptop were confiscated. Involved called in sick the same day. Because of the importance of ensuring the proper functioning of the service and also in order to ensure confidence in the service, the person concerned was suspended on 29 August, which means a temporary removal from the service and which results in a temporary impossibility of carrying out work services. There are many questions about the approach of the RVA. Well, I can tell you that a great deal of progress has been made in this area. Today, the RVA has a very concrete approach to avoiding abuses by social inspectors, especially through intensive training and coaching. There is also monitoring through sample quality checks, both on the approach and on the specific handling of files. This does not only happen after a certain period, but rather intensively throughout the course, from the start of the job and throughout the career. We therefore believe that the RVA has acted in an appropriate and concrete manner and has fully cooperated. The RVA will continue to participate in the investigation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u65	Then I give the floor to Minister De Backer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u66	Mr President, I have an addition that may not be unimportant. There is a deontological code for civil servants. In the case of the RVA, it has also been converted into a specific deontological code for inspectors. This applies, moreover, to all inspection services which have such a code of ethics and are strictly monitored to ensure that it is complied with. It is also important to note that this is a single and unique case. There are 1 200 inspectors and most perform their jobs correctly day in, day out, in difficult circumstances. That is why we must act all the harder when we find that there is a crime here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u67	Mr President, Mr De Backer, thank you for your addition. You say it's a single case. This is the only case known today, that is the decision. At the same time, we can conclude that with seven different inspection services, each of which has to watch in their own way the deontology of all their employees, the resources are deployed in scattered battle order. In future, therefore, we must make a real commitment to the unification of all social inspection services. Merging forces can ensure that the supervision of deontology can be much sharper and stronger. You say it's a single case. It may be the only case you know, but that does not mean that this is the only case. You shake your head, Minister, but there may be such cases under the waterline. We note that the current system is not effective enough. It needs to be improved and this can be done by joining forces. It is, after all, extremely important in a rule of law that citizens can at least rely on the fact that those responsible for ensuring compliance with essential rules are indeed in good faith. Otherwise, the end is completely lost.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u68	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I am glad that this is an isolated case, which hopefully does not occur very often. It is clear that we must continue to work on the fight against social fraud. I find it unacceptable and it is a blow to the face of any entrepreneur who wants to follow the rules. We fully support the fight against social fraud and will continue to follow this theme in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u69	Thank you, Mrs Verhelst, and congratulations on your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u70	Mr President, Madam Minister, Professor voor uw benoeming! You have inherited an essential portfolio in a context where ever-increasing discrimination requires proactive and coordinated policies. This was the commitment made by your predecessors each time as part of their respective policy briefs. However, this Monday, the new Flemish government, of which your party is a member, announced its withdrawal from the cooperation agreement of 12 January 2013 establishing Unia, the Interfederal Centre for Equal Opportunities. The Centre is responsible for promoting the participation of all citizens in society, but also for combating all discrimination based on one of the 17 criteria established by federal anti-discrimination laws. The Flemish Government's decision has serious consequences for the proper functioning of Unia, which will be solely responsible for federal matters, i.e. all matters relating to the application of the provisions of the Penal Code (anti-racism laws, negationism, etc.). to the exclusion of regional and Community subjects, which includes education, employment and housing, sectors where discrimination is known to be widespread. Finally, this decision will lead to a loss of legibility for victims of discrimination who will no longer have a single reference as is the case today, which is totally contrary to the recommendations made by the Federal Commission for the Evaluation of Anti-Discrimination Laws, what is being done in our neighbouring countries, but also, quite simply, common sense. Minister, what is your opinion on this withdrawal? You know the work done by Unia in a constructive inter-federal climate. Do you not fear for the effectiveness and coordination of the actions to be taken by the different new governments, both federal and federal? Have you obtained any guarantees as to the independence of this future centre for equal opportunities in Flanders, since Unia enjoys this independence?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u71	Mr President, Madam Minister, congratulations also on your appointment. I look forward to working constructively with you on behalf of the Ecolo/Green Group in the fight against racism and discrimination. There's an opportunity right away. As a Flemish negotiator, your predecessor, Mr Beke, decided to leave Unia. With that, he saddles you with a challenging inheritance. As a federal MP, I am very concerned about the Flemish decision. The creation of an inter-federal centre such as Unia is the result of European obligations. At that time, Belgium had the choice between choosing six or nine different centres apart from each other, or working together. The choice was to work together and luckily so. It is much more efficient for all the authorities involved, for the various organisations, but certainly also for citizens to have one contact point. It also costs us less tax money. The scenario of each for itself that Flanders now chooses is more expensive and will lead to Kafkaian conditions. The negotiations on the creation of Unia lasted seven years. Years of work now being reversed! At least 10% of Unia's active substances are now compromised. The 2014 government agreement shows that the current government regards equal opportunities as an important cross-cutting issue. Your previous predecessor, Mr Delors, it is now becoming complex, but I am referring to Mr Peeters, who referred to the fight against racism and discrimination as a problem which requires an in-depth, interfederal approach, in which we will only achieve concrete results if all the noses point in the same direction. He was right. The reports received by Unia over the last five years have increased by more than half. Forty-five percent of those files are from Flanders. The battle hasn't been fought. That's why two questions for you. Firstly, will you, as a federal minister, engage in dialogue with Flanders and try to convince them that interfederal cooperation is absolutely necessary in this area? Secondly, according to the cooperation agreement of the founding of Unia, Flanders should have stopped cooperation by 15 September. That didn't happen. The cancellation of Flanders is too late. Will you, as Minister, see to it that the legal provisions are complied with? In other words, do you guarantee that the operation of Unia will remain unchanged until at least March 2023?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u72	Mr Soors, you did this without a cheat note, but not in time. No problem. The two colleagues who have just spoken did so for the first time in the Chamber, for which I congratulate you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u73	Mr President, Madam Minister, following the Flemish government agreement, Flanders has decided to withdraw from Unia. I would remind you that Unia is an inter-federal institution that fights discrimination and equal opportunities. I would also point out that your President, Mr Wouter Beke, who participated in the recent negotiations, stated in 2017 that as long as discrimination and racism existed, Unia would be indispensable. What happened, minister? Why did you change your mind? What happens on the CD&V? Does not your party have clear principles on how to combat discrimination? Is there any change of opinion as a result of the Minister's appointment?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u74	Mr Boukili, let me make it clear that there are no questions about the position of a political party. Questions are asked of a federal minister in a federal context. We have to stay right.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u75	Mr President, I am only surprised at the attitude of the CD&V to the fight against discrimination. That raises the question. All the more so, Madam Minister, it took seven years of debate and reflection between the federated entities to find the best way to fight discrimination, seven years to give birth to Unia. It was therefore considered that the most effective way to combat discrimination was to establish an inter-federal institution. This institution is not only the most effective solution, it is also the least costly one. I smile when I see that a party like the N-VA, which led the negotiations and conducted its entire campaign with an emphasis on wasting public money, today, as part of a government agreement, is putting forward a proposal that will cost taxpayers more, not to mention the schmilblick that it will create for citizens. Indeed, if a Flemish citizen of Brussels is discriminated against, to whom should he turn? If a Francophone in a wheelchair takes a De Lijn bus and suffers discrimination, to whom should he turn? Madam Minister, if a Walloon is a victim of racism in Flanders, who should he address? Madam Minister, since you are in charge of Equal Opportunities and Combating Discrimination, do you not find that the choice of the Flemish Government is a hindrance to these tasks? Don't you think it's going to harm your departmental task and expertise?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, I will give the floor to the Minister, but not without specifying that we will not fall into a game of commenting from here on what is happening in the Flemish Parliament, and vice versa. That could lead us very far. I would ask Minister Muylle to respond strictly within her powers as a federal minister. I would also like to invite you all to stop playing these games in the future. However, these are political games which have nothing to do with Question Time in a context of current affairs. Mr Hedebouw, you are here in Parliament. I am chairing this Parliament. I shall give the floor to the Minister first. Afterwards, you can decide for yourself whether you still want to replicate on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u77	Mr President, I am standing here as the new Federal Minister for Equal Opportunities. In my opinion, everyone knows that Unia was created in March 2014 by means of a cooperation agreement and operates completely independently, in accordance with the Paris Principles. Let me be very clear: for victims of racism and discrimination, Unia plays an important role, especially in the context of the mandate to mediate, and it can also act on behalf of the victims in court. As regards the future withdrawal of Flanders, the arrangements for the termination of the Cooperation Agreement are laid down in Article 17. This agreement shall be concluded for a period of three years and shall be extended by tacit extension for a further period of three years. At the end of each three-year period, each party may terminate the agreement by notifying the Presidents of Parliaments at all levels six months before the expiry of the three-year period concerned. This means that this period has indeed passed. This means that the intention to withdraw from the cooperation agreement should be notified by 15 September 2022 at the latest. In the facts, this means that one can only do this at the end of the next cycle, which is March 15, 2023. As a new federal minister, I hope to work well together for the next three years. I therefore hope that the Flemish Government will do this in an active and positive way and that we will continue to participate in the cooperation. There were also questions about funding. Questions were asked about Unia's financial sources. In 2018, the Flemish Region contributed only 10% of its total budget to the operation of Unia. Eighty per cent of its budget is funded by the federal government. It is quite clear to me that we must continue the fight. It is also important that the creation of a federal human rights institute should provide for both general and residual federal powers, without prejudice to the powers already conferred on other bodies. However, I am pleased that the Flemish Government is also committed to engaging in the inter-federal human rights mechanism so that it can obtain an A status in accordance with the Paris Principles. Ladies and gentlemen, let me be very clear. The fight against discrimination and racism must remain a priority for me as a new minister responsible for equal opportunities. I hope that there will be constructive cooperation at all levels. For me, it is impossible for citizens and victims to lose their way as a result of institutional changes. Hopefully we will be able to continue working not only with all governments but also with all equality bodies and human rights institutions in the coming years.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u78	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I understand that you intend to consider equal opportunities as a priority. That's very good. Besides, it's still your skill and your role. I am concerned, however, that this is precisely what was also announced by your predecessors, saying that they would point the finger at this policy. I really regret, in the decision taken by the Flemish regional government, that we are continuing in a way, without any consultation with the federal government or with the federated entities, a process which had begun in 2013 with the division of the Centre for Equal Opportunities and the fight against racism between, on the one hand, Unia and, on the other hand, Myria. These two centres, despite the fact that they had not already asked for anything at the time, have always worked with great professionalism on difficult issues, faced with a rise in hate and racist discourse. As a result, there has also been a significant increase in the number of cases. What worries me is that by disrupting the proper functioning of Unia, by denying the added value it brings in relation to this type of case, the effectiveness of the fight against discrimination will be undermined. In order to be correct, the policy of equal opportunities must take precedence over the identity or political demands of some. It must give priority to what unites and not to what divides. I invite you, in the exercise of your new duties, to be very attentive to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u79	Mrs Soors, you have the floor for a brief reply. You've spoken a long time. Replieks are not speeches. They are answers to what the Minister said.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u80	Madam Minister, I am very pleased that you wanted to speak immediately on the period of notice. I can conclude with you that this actually means that the workings of Unia can and must not change until March 2023. The battle is too important to limit them only to good intentions. That is also what I heard in your reply. The examples, as Mr van PVDA also mentioned, are very important to us. What will we do with a woman with a dark skin color from Flanders who is refused a rental apartment in Brussels? What will we do with a man who is denied access to the bus on a De Lijn bus in Brussels because of a visual handicap? They're not single cases. This is a daily reality that Belgians experience in our country. The controversy surrounding the subject, the number of files at Unia prove that the problems of racism and discrimination have only increased in our country. I call on all democratic parties present here to be associated with our ally. Thank you, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u81	Madam Minister, I see that the debate is somewhat exciting the Chamber! I'm worried about your answer. You promise to fight discrimination, while starting by putting sticks in the wheels, since you justify the position adopted by the Flemish government. Minister, I would like to remind you that discrimination has no borders. Similarly, the fight against them must not know about it. You are responsible for this task for all Belgians, regardless of their origins – whether they are Flemish, Walloon or Brussels. There can therefore be no differences in how to combat discrimination. Minister, you remind me of this little-inspired doctor who, in order to cure a fever, instead of attacking evil, prefers to break the thermometer. You follow the same method: instead of solving problems, you react by opting for even more harmful and serious means for all Belgians.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u82	Mr Hedebouw, would you like to speak on the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u83	Mr. Speaker, I would like to see no double standards in the House. To refer to political quotations which Mr Beke, in this case, once said, seems to me quite appropriate for today's debate. If we begin to limit speaking time because someone is referring to words outside Parliament, we are not going to get away with it. I hear it's a PTB MP who just spoke, but the string is a little big, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u84	Mr Hedebouw, let me be very clear. This is not about what certain politicians have said in the past. This is about the fact that we do not end up in a game in the Federal Chamber, in which everyone comments today on the Flemish Government and tomorrow on the Brussels or Walloon Government. We don't. We will put questions here to members of the government about their powers. Moreover, we are currently doing so within the context of current cases. For the rest, I have indeed referred to this as a political game and Mrs Muylle as a federal minister has not been kept here to answer something that would have been decided in the Flemish Government. Do you know that the Flemish Parliament used to be quite ill in that cot and that there was constant commentary on what was happening in another assembly? Let us deal with our own powers, then we have more than enough work to do. Mr Boukili, I congratulate you on your Mayden speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u85	Mrs Depraetere, I give you the floor for your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u86	Mr President, Minister, two weeks ago we were confronted with the disturbing news of Thomas Cook's bankruptcy. I asked your predecessor, Minister Beke, exactly what that meant to our country, what the impact would be and what was just happening. He said that a lot of travel had been cancelled, that a lot of travelers were stuck abroad, that this was not good for the consumer, but that the workers did not have to worry too much. He said that because the Belgian leg was profitable. The only thing the Belgian leg really had to do was look for 5 million euros. That's what the board did until last weekend. Today, however, we hear that this EUR 5 million was simply channelled to the bottomless pit of the bankrupt British company. That money's just gone. That's really absurd. Madam Secretary, I think you cannot deny that this is quite absurd. Two weeks ago it was said here in Parliament that we should not worry too much and a few days later we hear that the travellers who made extra costs abroad are probably not going to get their money back. Today we hear that the company here in Belgium is also bankrupt and that as a result 500 employees are on the streets. Madam Minister, many questions are rightly raised not only by workers, travellers and curators. I too would like to ask you a few questions about this. Your predecessor was with the board immediately after the bankruptcy announcement. Is that what the EUR 5 million we are talking about today has been discussed? Were your services aware of this? How come there was money a few days ago and there wasn't any more today? What has your predecessor done to manage such an important dossier? What are you going to do as a new minister to remove the uncertainty from the staff?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u87	Madam Minister, it is still getting used to, but in any case, congratulations on your wonderful mandate. I am convinced that we will be able to work very well together in the Committee on Economic Affairs. After all, you have a lot of important files coming at you, including Thomas Cook's. We had a discussion on this last week. On that occasion I expressed my hope for a successful outcome for the 600 employees of Thomas Cook Belgium. Unfortunately, the bankruptcy has now been declared. Bankruptcy is not only bad for the employees, it also affects their entire family. It even gets twice as bad when suddenly it turns out that money has disappeared from the greenhouse. After all, it turns out that 5 to 6 million euros from Thomas Cook Belgium has been secreted to the United Kingdom, money that was desperately needed to ensure a good start here in Belgium. Madam Secretary, that is distressing. The money of a well-functioning company is used to dampen the well of a poorly-functioning company. As a result, the employees of that well-functioning company are on the street. How are those people, who have worked hard and are now on the streets, supposed to feel? It is a sledgehammer for all Belgian employees of Thomas Cook who also raises a number of questions. Madam Secretary, last week there was a meeting in the cabinet with your predecessor. Were there any indications at that time that there was such a system of cash pooling and that there might be money being secreted to the United Kingdom? Couldn't that have been avoided? The curators now take over Thomas Cook Belgium. Can they investigate this further, check whether everything was legal and see if this could not be stopped? Now 600 people are gonna be on the street. Are there any measures you can take as a minister? Finally, can you give an update on the repatriation and operation of the Guarantee Fund?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, at a previous plenary session, my predecessor presented the state of play on the matter. A new regret is that Thomas Cook Retail Belgium has been bankrupt since then and more than 500 employees have been fired. There has indeed been a meeting with Thomas Cook Belgium's management, but it took place before the bankruptcy. At that time, it stated that it was still examining whether it was still able to obtain liquidity, as certain accounts were blocked. Let me be very clear, at no time was the Thomas Cook cash pool system explained in detail. It has never been said that certain liquidity had disappeared. In that case, the company court appointed curators to deal with the bankruptcy further. It is therefore up to the curators to carry out the necessary investigations into what happened to the various assets and to report the necessary information to the court, possibly including the criminal offences that would come to light. I find this a very painful matter if the coverage is correct, especially for the 500 employees. I therefore sincerely hope that the curators will look at this thoroughly and that they will be able to clarify it very quickly. With regard to the state of play of the Guarantee Fund, as my predecessor said, the emphasis is now on the repatriation of all travellers. 756 more people need to be repatriated. That will happen between today and Sunday. Then everyone should have been repatriated. The curators decided last Thursday to cancel all booked trips. Today, 18 000 claims have been made to the Guarantee Fund. People are now starting to work on this. Once the repatriations have been completed, the files are being dealt with. There were still a number of uncertainties about files where people had paid with a credit card. The question was whether the processing should be carried out via the banking institutions or the Guarantee Fund. Mrs Depraetere, as some travelers had to pay on the spot, even though their hotel was paid, we know those stories........................................................................................................................................................................................... If this is not possible, it is also being examined whether it can provide compensation for travellers who have still paid on the spot.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u89	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I hear you saying that there was no knowledge of the cash-pool system. Allow me to find that very problematic. The crisis broke loose two weeks ago, and until today it seems that there was no knowledge of the existence of that system. You also said that the curators and the Guarantee Fund are currently trying to figure out what could happen. That is good, but I would suggest that we sit with the management and staff very quickly to see how the uncertainty can be removed from both passengers and workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u90	Madam Minister, thank you for your comprehensive answer and the clarification, because there was no signal about the cash pool last week; that was not yet known. If it is true that EUR 5 to 6 million has been secreted, it must be thoroughly investigated. In this context, we look forward to the work that the curators and the court will carry out. For the rest, I would like to express my support for all of Thomas Cook's employees who are going through this. I would like to thank the staff of the Guarantee Fund for all the efforts they are making to repatriate and pay out on the various dossiers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u91	That concludes Question Time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u92	The plenary session of 19 September 2019 appointed the 5 actual members of the Chamber's delegation to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. The plenary session of 19 September 2019 appointed the 5 permanent members of the delegation of the Chamber to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. Today, we are appointing the five alternate members of this delegation. Today we are going to appoint the five alternate members of this delegation. The plenary session of 26 September 2019 decided to assign the functions of alternate to the political groups of the House with an electoral quotient between 6 and 10. The plenary session of 26 September 2019 decided to award the alternate seats to the political groups of the Chamber with the sixth to tenth electoral quotient. The group presidents sent the names of their candidates. The chairmen of the political groups have informed me of the names of their candidates. N-VA: Joy Donné CD&V: Nawal Farih PVDA-PTB: Nadia Moscufo Open Vld: Goedele Liekens Ecolo-Green: Georges Gilkinet Since the number of admissible candidates corresponds to the number of places to be allocated, there shall be no vote in accordance with Rule 157, No. 6 of the Rules of Procedure. Since the number of admissible applications corresponds to the number of places to go, in accordance with Article 157 of the Treaty, President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Accordingly, I declare the candidates nominated elected. I hereby declare the nominees elected.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u93	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. A supplementary list of proposals for consideration has been submitted to the Conference of Presidents. This list will also be included in the Annex to the Integral Return Account. The Conference of Presidents was informed of an additional list of proposals for consideration. This list will also be included in the Annex to the Integrated Report. If there are no comments on this subject, I shall consider it to be taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider it accepted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-03-55-plenair-ip007x.u94	We must approve the agenda for next week's sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's sitting. I inform you that next Tuesday we will meet automatically in accordance with the Constitution. At the Conference of Presidents, we decided to meet on Tuesdays only next week. We will therefore supplement Tuesday's agenda with Question Time and other matters that can be discussed. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Tuesday 8 October 2019 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Tuesday, October 8, 2019 at 2:15 p.m.
