ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u1	Colleagues, as requested this morning, the hearing with Theo Francken, our colleague in Parliament, but also former Secretary of State, is taking place in the context of the hearings on humanitarian visas and the settlement of the work on this subject. I shall first give the floor to the former Secretary of State and then the Members will have the floor, with the intention of asking questions. In doing so, I will respect the usual order of the political groups according to their size in Parliament. You are free to say and ask what you want, but I would like to stress that we have stated in the regulation of the proceedings that we must pay attention to what we say, given the possible cross-examination of the judicial investigation. If you want to bear this in mind, I assume that you will assume your own responsibility. I give the floor to Mr Francken.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before going into the why and how of our humanitarian rescue operation of many hundreds of Syrian Christians during my mandate as Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration, I would like to make two observations. First of all, I'm here voluntarily. It is totally unusual and even contrary to constitutional logic that I, as a Member of Parliament, should be heard by fellow Members of Parliament. Nevertheless, I willingly addressed the question of being here in committee, making a statement and answering questions. I will not avoid my political responsibility in this dossier either. I haven't done that in almost 20 years that I've been working on the Wetstraat. Secondly, there is a judicial investigation currently under way. Both myself and my cabinet cooperate with the investigating judge in charge of the ongoing judicial investigation in all transparency. However, I do not wish to harm the secret of the investigation in any way, and I will not answer any questions in this connection in order not to interfere with the conduct of the judicial investigation. Ladies and gentlemen, to return to the beginning of Syrian Christian rescue operations, I return to 2014. Two important dates to understand our decision to launch these rescue operations are March 25, 2014 and November 19, 2014. On 25 March 2014, Parliament's resolution No. 3487 on the protection of the Christian community and other religious and philosophical minorities in North Africa, the Near East and the Middle East, unanimously unanimously adopted by the Chamber of Representatives, with the explicit request to the government to promote, and I quote, 'the protection of religious minorities'. A similar chamber resolution was retabled in the current legislature and again adopted by a very large and broad majority on 20 July 2017. This motion for a resolution will be put to the vote at the next voting time. 1975 was even stronger and ordered the government, and I quote again, to 'continue to prioritize the resettlement of the most vulnerable religious minorities under direct threat of persecution and extermination'. A second important date in 2014 was 19 November 2014. Then, on my proposal, the Belgian Government decided to increase the number of Syrians eligible for resettlement through UNHCR from one hundred and fifty to three hundred. However, that programme only applied to refugees in the camps in neighbouring countries. As former ambassador Mark Geleyn stated earlier during the hearing, Christians were denied access to the Sunni-dominated camps and thus fell de facto out of this UN quota. In this context, in March 2015, a concrete question came to the start of a first rescue operation from Aleppo. This question came from a group that had gathered around former ambassador Mark Geeyn. The question was to set up a humanitarian corridor from Syria, as in a number of other countries. So this is not unique for Belgium. Several countries did so as a result of the Syrian civil war. This conflict has caused the biggest humanitarian crisis since the Second World War, with more than 10 million refugees. Nor is it the first time that Belgium has set up a humanitarian air bridge. As Mr Roosemont stressed in this committee a few weeks ago, this happened earlier from Rwanda in 1994 and from Haiti in 2010. In other words, our choice to focus on Syrian Christians during the rescue operations fits fully within the mandate given by parliament to the government. We had a clear mandate from Parliament. That is an important fact, and rightly so. The operation in 2015 came about after alarming reports about the situation of Christians in the West Aleppo besieged for three years. The Christians in Aleppo were without doubt in danger. All Syrians were under the civil war: Muslims, Christians, Arabs, Kurds, alevites, druzen and so on. However, Christians were the victims of a targeted and most gruesome persecution by the barbarians of al-Nusra, IS and other Sunni rebel groups. I repeat, all Syrians under the civil war. I would, of course, like to emphasise that. The fact that Christians were particularly endorsed was explicitly confirmed by the UN Security Council of 27 March 2015 at an exceptional meeting on persecuted minorities in the Middle East. The French had insisted on this. The meeting ended not with a resolution but with an action plan announced by Ban Ki-moon. It is important to note that the UN Action Plan speaks of systematic persecution by Daesh and other terrorist groups. I understand that some of my fellow Members have comments on the expression'saved from the claws of IS'. I'm suggesting they don't be so slim. Jabhat al-Nusra, a branch of Al-Qaeda, was as dangerous as ISIS. Al-Nusra was responsible for the massacre of the Christians of Qaraqosh and Maaloula. Two bishops have been kidnapped by al-Nusra and are still missing. If I used the wording in question, it was only a short saying for a very harsh reality. Ladies and gentlemen, the rescue operation of Christians from Aleppo went secretly and became a success. On 14 July 2015, I gave a press conference on this subject together with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Didier Reynders. I expressed my gratitude for the excellent cooperation with Foreign Affairs, and in particular with the people of the Embassy in Beirut. These feelings of gratitude have not diminished today. The 2015 Aleppo operation was the first humanitarian corridor from Syria but certainly not the last. Hundreds of begged for help from Syrian Christian centers in Belgium reached our cabinet. How did that process go and which people got a visa? Those are questions that all of you have asked yourself. At the start of humanitarian visa operations, the advice was sought from various services. There was a clear problem. How to make a humanitarian effort without opening an additional and uncontrollable migration channel? I think that Mr Van den Bulck and Mr Roosemont have already explained this. I also refer to Mr Van den Bulck's legal opinion. It follows that we could not work with an instruction to DVZ which established clear criteria for humanitarian visas. The mere establishment of criteria would make them both enforceable and questionable, which, in a situation involving more than 60 million refugees worldwide, could of course lead to a flood of enforceable applications. In addition, there was an additional difficulty in the fact that people were detained in a country in war, which, on the one hand, excludes existing resettlement procedures in cooperation with UNHCR, but on the other hand prevented people from applying for humanitarian visas themselves in a Belgian consulate in one of the neighbouring countries. At that time one can either choose to do nothing, because it is too difficult or too risky, or to find ad hoc solutions. I have chosen the latter in honour and conscience. In this way, I came to this approach in consultation with my services. There were two practical possibilities for applying for a humanitarian visa in accordance with Article 9 of the Aliens Act: a procedure without involving the Cabinet and a procedure involving the Cabinet. The first option should be launched through an application to an embassy and is handled and decided by the DVZ. The second option is within the scope of the discretionary power vested in each State Secretary or Minister for Asylum and Migration. Those granted humanitarian visas are a policy choice. It is true that the granting of a humanitarian visa means that one can legally travel to Belgium to apply for asylum. So it is not a carte blanche for an unlimited stay without control. Without an asylum procedure, the stay would expire after one year. The visa D has a validity of one year. I will then go over the nine steps of the administrative procedure followed in the cabinet. Firstly, there is the discretionary agreement of the Secretary of State for a number of persons following a specific question from the representative, the religious community or another party, a non-Christian applicant, for example a professor or a former rector, which we have had. The Secretary of State's agreement is also requested for individual applications. I can't do that without my agreement. Secondly, a list is drawn up by the contact person for the number of persons for whom there is an agreement. Larger lists with more than 50 people are divided into smaller groups and thus not passed on at once. After all, it makes little sense to pass everything on at once, because situations of people on the ground can change quickly due to the uncertain conditions in Syria. Individual files are in some cases merged into a small group, which is managed by the Cabinet. The cabinet then informs the parties themselves. We did that ourselves from the cabinet. Third step, the list is delivered to the cabinet. The cabinet carries out a formal check on the completeness of the list and passport, among other things, and forwards the list to the Foreign Affairs Office for screening by the OCAD and the VSSE, the State Security Office. In order to avoid parallel procedures, sometimes several contact persons were asked for an intervention at the same time or they themselves had a procedure to apply for a humanitarian visa, without the intervention of the cabinet, running at DVZ........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ We have done so since spring 2018. Fourth step, in case of a green light from the State Security and the OCAD, the Foreign Office sends a confirmation to the Cabinet, which in turn confirms that an appointment may be made by the DVZ at the Beirut Embassy. Fifth step, Foreign Affairs Department makes an appointment at the embassy and gives the date to the cabinet. The cabinet then gives the date to the contact person, as well as the invitations to the agreements with which the Syrian-Lebanese border can be crossed. Sixth step, the contact person informs the persons concerned and gives them the signal to pay the right of roll of 350 euros on the bill of the Foreign Affairs Office - that's always the case for a visa and to book their flight ticket to Belgium. Preferably within 48 hours of issuing the visa, you must leave Lebanon in order to avoid any exit fees. Seventh step, the contact informs the Cabinet of all flight records entering. The Cabinet will deliver it to the Foreign Office through our border posts. Eighth step, on the day of the appointment, all persons present themselves at the embassy in Beirut with proof of payment of the right to roll, two passport photos and a completed document for the application for a humanitarian visa. The visa will be delivered the same day. Any cancellations will be delivered to the cabinet via the contact person, as early as possible. If necessary, a new appointment will be made. After all, something may have intervened. Ninth step, the cabinet plans, in consultation with Fedasil and the Foreign Office, the most appropriate date to come and apply for asylum. A list of the persons to come, indicating whether they need care and, if so, whether medical provision should be made. For the sake of clarity, it was not a system of priority, but a measure to prevent the sudden arrival of larger groups from overloading the DVZ's asylum window, or that a higher number of medical cases for reception services would raise problems. It only makes sense, I think, that people want to organise everything in a good way. I give figures on humanitarian visas. A total of 1 501 people, for which I gave my approval, were issued a humanitarian visa. The visas issued concern Schengen visas for the Belgian territory. Until the judgment of the European Court of Justice in the context of the visa case, Schengen visas were the subject of a short stay, which means that they are obliged to apply for asylum within three months in order to avoid illegality, after which they are forced to stay for a long period of time, i.e. the so-called visa D, with a validity of one year. I have given my agreement to the following bodies, with associated intermediaries. I've published the survey, but I'll discuss it here as well. There was, first of all, what we called the group of the church of Scherpenheuvel. That was not the basilica of Scherpenheuvel or the parish of the basilica, but the group was called that, because in Scherpenheuvel there were shelters and also because several services took place there as a result of the rescue operation. That's actually the group around former ambassador Mark Geleyn. For this, 499 visas were issued. There is the group around Gave Veste vzw Mechelen, with as contact person Sjaak van Leijenhorst, 278 issued visas. Thirdly, there is the Assyrian community of Mechelen, contact Melikan Kucam, 219 issued visas. Fourthly, there is the group Sant'Egidio, Jan De Volder and Pieter Wieers, 150 issued visas. Fifth, there was the group of the Assyrian church of Aalst, Karim Van Overmeire and Konstantin Al Chammas, 101 issued visas. Sixth, there was the group around a number of Syrian clergy, Hazail Soumi, Constantin Abdo, Thomas Habbabé, 127 delivered vision. Seventh, for the Louvain-la-Neuve group with former rector Delvaux, Massoud Malloul and professor Dujardin 32 visas were issued. Then there are a number of individual files, a total of 95 issued visas. That was about, for example, another family member, someone who contacted me or our cabinet with a question. Those were individual files, which we then tried to group in the cabinet. This brings you to a total of 1 501 humanitarian visas delivered as part of those rescue operations from Syria. There were more approved applications than 1 501, but a number of persons could not collect the visa for various reasons, such as problems of leaving Syria, illness, death or withdrawal. In four years' time, 5 797 humanitarian visas were granted by the Foreign Office, which were valid until August 2018 - of which 1 501 humanitarian visas were issued by the Cabinet. That's the total figure. What about the vulnerability of the selected individuals? Humanitarian visas are intended to ensure that the most vulnerable persons in very difficult circumstances who have a very high chance of obtaining protection status in Belgium come to Belgium legally. It has been my policy to have Christian Syrians issue humanitarian visas specifically. The level of protection of Syrians has been consistently very high in recent years, above 90%, as Mr Van den Bulck said here in committee. Without the people who have actually already received asylum in another European country in accordance with the Dublin Agreement, there is almost 100% full recognition for any Syrian who is also effective and who has not already received asylum in another European country. It was very clear that Christians had to endure it even more because of their faith. The Chamber also adopted two resolutions on the protection of religious minorities in the Middle East, as I have already mentioned. As it was impossible for aid organisations to investigate the individual situation of persons on Syrian territory, NGOs and UNHCR were only active with resettlement programmes in neighbouring Lebanon, Turkey, Jordan and Iraq. In the framework of the European resettlement programme, 2 951 persons were re-established in Belgium during this legislative period. However, this did little to help vulnerable people who could not or hardly escape Syria. That is why I decided to apply a system of selection as close as possible through the involvement of trusted persons acting as representatives of the Christian community in Belgium. Those contacts would take on the role of gatekeeper. Files proposed by members of their respective Christian community were analysed and evaluated by them. Each application has always been examined for the following vulnerability criteria. First of all, we had to have Syrian nationality and provide a copy of the passport. Secondly, there had to be additional vulnerability: families with children, single women, the elderly, people with medical problems, etc. Thirdly, one had to have a family link with Belgium. This is very important for integration and social control. Fourthly, one had to be a Christian. For the record, with Sant'Egidio, that was not a criterion. Finally, one should not be known to the State Security or the OCAD. The vulnerability criteria were used to ensure the highest possible probability that a protection status would be granted by the CGVS. There was no VIP treatment. All these people are extremely vulnerable. I therefore supported the drawing up of the lists of selected persons on a relationship of trust with the Christian communities and organizations that the family band could provide the necessary background information and integration opportunities in Belgium. Applications from non-Christians were also approved. For example, the lists of Sant'Egidio were not limited to Christians. For example, humanitarian visas were issued in cooperation with Foreign Affairs to some Chechen Holebi's or to Burundian and Congolese citizens who were in a very precarious situation. Is it true that some have not yet applied for asylum? Firstly, as far as I know, everyone who has challenged asylum has been given that, which is a clear proof of the extreme vulnerability of these people. Secondly, it may be that some people who have received a visa have not yet applied for asylum. The reasons are the following. Firstly, they did not leave because of illness, for family reasons, homesickness, etc. Secondly, they have travelled to another European country but then they should have a Dublin hit. As far as I know, but that has to be checked, there has never been one of those 1 500 'dublind' or even a Dublin application. I think that's weird. If they had travelled, they would normally have a Dublin hit in Belgium and the administration would have to see it immediately via Eurodac. As far as I can tell, that never happened. Anyway, maybe that's changed in the last few weeks. I don't know. That needs to be checked out. Thirdly, I know that some of the last groups that have come from Syria still have to apply for asylum. But they have a year to do that. The follow-up must take place, but I cannot guarantee it at the moment, of course. Fourthly, the visa D is only valid for one year anyway. It is then necessary to apply for asylum or to be illegal on European territory. People who are not in Belgium, or who are in Belgium but do not apply for asylum, will be deprived of the residence permit, and they will be illegal. Of course, that is not in their own interest at all. It seems to me very unlikely that they will then not apply for asylum. You are not going to use an air bridge to run for Belgium and then be illegal on European territory after a year? I do not believe that these people will choose illegality. They're legal here. It would be awesome not to apply for asylum. I really can't imagine that. I read that in De Standaard today. My answer to that is that it seems very unlikely to me, and absolutely against their own interests, that they would not apply for asylum, because then they will be illegal in a few months' time. That seems very unlikely to me. For the sake of clarity, the contacts are very well briefed on the importance of applying for asylum as soon as possible to regularize the stay. They all know that very well. Those people know that very well. Concrete agreements have often been made. If they do not show up and choose to do anything else, their term will expire after a maximum of one year. I have read that article and do not question it at all, but that seems strange to me. Fifthly, it is in these people's interests to apply for asylum. This gives them the right to a more stable statute and a better framework. In any case, all these extremely vulnerable persons have been rescued from the claws of IS, al-Nusra and other barbarians and are safe here. This group behaves excellently and integrates into top speed. I've never received a report of problems with law and order. I would like to repeat this: I have never received a report of problems with public order. Whether that's changed in the past few weeks, you should ask Minister De Block. Was there a VIP treatment and political clientelism? There was no arbitrariness on my part, nor was there any VIP treatment, but I did give the confidence to key people in the communities to make the selection. My trust in Mechelen may have been shamelessly abused if the allegations are correct. There was no political clientelism whatsoever: the representatives of the church communities and contacts were of different political tendencies. By the way, party political obstinacy was never a criterion at any time. So it is not because one was a member of one or the other, it is not because one was a professor at one or the other university that one was given priority to being a contact person. The criterion was whether one was a representative of the church community, or whether one was designated by the church community as a representative. Was there a number of people with membership cards of political formations? Yes, it is, probably more than I know, because I have never asked them, but that was certainly not a criterion to be referred to by a community as the representative of that community, I may assume. Why only the first Aleppo group was asked for an opinion from the CGVS? I've read that in the past few months. During the first operation in Aleppo, we tried to have a short profile of each individual, which could then be submitted to the competent asylum services. The intention was to gain a better view of indications of exclusion, for example, someone with a high military position in Assad's army would be excluded. A number of Christians were and are still active in Assad's army. We also wanted to have a better view of the vulnerability, for example medical needs and others. In the case of resettlement, that on-the-spot examination shall be carried out by the CGVS during a selection mission. However, that was not an option in this case, because it was obviously impossible to send officials to Syria and the time frame in Lebanon did not allow such a selection mission. Syrians were granted a kind of 24-hour or 48-hour transit permit in Lebanon on the basis of the promise that they would then leave for Belgium. It was therefore not possible to do so: it was not operationally feasible to set it up in such a short time. The information we received from Syria in these difficult circumstances through the fact sheets filled in by the people themselves was very limited and impossible to verify from Belgium. The CGVS came to the same conclusion on the basis of the sheets of the first group. That is why we have not repeated this procedure, which seems logical to me, because it did not work. A thorough examination of the files took place, of course, during the asylum application in our country. In addition, I have never received any mention from the CGVS of possible problematic elements. I am not aware of any refusal of protection status for persons who have come to Belgium with a humanitarian visa. So, as far as I'm aware, there's no problem with the people who came here. They all receive international protection, at least if they apply for it. As I said earlier, some of them still have to apply. Were there any files? No, on the last day of my mandate, 9 December, there were no more files. Therefore, nothing had to be stopped, as no more entries were planned. So there was nothing going on. In December there were groups from Sant'Egidio, but there were no new applications, there was no new project, there were no new groups ready for approval. The security situation in Syria has improved considerably. We also have another asylum crisis in Belgium, where many centres have to be reopened in order to offer everyone bed, bath and bread, with the result that it did not seem particularly appropriate for me to fly in even more people if we do not have enough room. At least from an operational point of view, I did not think that was very sensible. Was the government informed of visa payments in July 2018, as Mr Kucam claims? No. However, the Belgian border post found that a Syrian lady on Mr Kucam's list had travelled to Sweden with her humanitarian visa. Mr Kucam informed the cabinet on several occasions about the attempts to get the lady back to Belgium to apply for asylum. However, there was never any talk of paying for visas. Why didn't they work through the UNHCR? We work very often and very well with the UNHCR, as the UNHCR's opinion also shows. However, anyone who wanted to open a humanitarian corridor from Syria to the persecuted Syrian Christians could only do so through trust in the church communities. We couldn't do that through NGOs or through the United Nations. In the regions where the persecuted Christians were staying, especially East Syria, there was virtually no international presence, because of the unsafe situation there. Nor does the UN make any additional efforts towards religious minorities. In addition, it is not possible to rule out the abuse of trust on the ground when choosing NGOs. Look at what has happened over the past few years in several major renowned NGOs. I read De Morgen's front page today, but I do not think you can interpret from the UNHCR's official advice that they would have been present in Syria as part of resettlement. Neither my administration nor I have ever received any signal about this. I know that there is a passage in the opinion, but I do not rule out the fact that they would have taken over if we had asked. At the end of 2014, at the beginning of 2015, we did have a meeting with the UNHCR. I've been looking for the report on that but I haven't found it. That was certainly also about humanitarian visas, because that was then a question from several NGOs. I also received refugee work and other NGOs in the Cabinet. That was certainly their demand, but it was not the case that we were offered an offer to organise the resettlement from Syria itself of Syrian Christians from West Aleppo. That's not right. That's not what they write in their advice either. It's said they'd done resettlement, but was that from Syria? I never knew about that. I'm really surprised about that. They now also say that they would do a selection based on religion. To be honest, that seems very strong to me. It's an advice. One might invite those involved to hear it from themselves, but what I have read is certainly not what I have heard on the ground, in my contacts with the organisation, during my mandate as Secretary of State. Absolutely not. It's not what I read in the opinion either. I believe that the interpretation of the opinion is very broad, but the opinion has been written a lot more carefully. Nor do I think that the UNHCR's opinion is capable of interpreting that they would have been present in Syria in the context of resettlement. They were there, but that wasn't in the context of resettlement. Neither my administration nor I have ever received any signal about this. It is clear that they are the engine and the preferred partner for resettlement operations, absolutely, but in the context of humanitarian visas one can go one step further as Secretary of State or as a government where NGOs and UNHCR do not come because of the security situation. The criteria they cite also apply to the files for which we gave humanitarian visas. Those are also the vulnerability criteria. This evidence has been provided by the fact that everyone who has applied for asylum has received it here as well as the resettlement of more than 2 500 people. They all got asylum when they got here. This is exactly the same for the group that came through humanitarian visas from Syria itself. Those who have already applied for asylum have also received it. Some of them still have to apply for it, but they'll get it too. I'm sure of it. Ladies and gentlemen, I stand by our rescue operations 100%. However, there is certainly room for improvement, because although it is not the first time ever, such a humanitarian rescue operation remains rather exceptional. I give some improvement points that my cabinet and I learned during these operations. Firstly, the creation of a humanitarian corridor to save human lives must remain possible. This can be done under the discretion of the Secretary of State or Minister for Asylum and Migration. This can also be done with the visa D. This is legally totally okay. However, I would argue that, in exceptional situations, the possibility of setting up a humanitarian corridor should be retained. Secondly, working through contacts from certain communities should remain possible if the objective set cannot be achieved through UNHCR. UNHCR is the first preferred partner. If this is not possible, it is necessary to consider whether there can be work through contacts from certain communities. Thirdly, a police screening of the contact person is recommended. It may be a little strange to have a former rector or a cleric screened by the police, but it gives extra political coverage. If there had been a political screening of the former rector of the UCL and of some of the other contacts, such as former ambassador Geleyn, we probably wouldn't have gotten much wiser. This would certainly have given me more political cover. Then I could have told you that I had them screened and that this had not produced any results. I didn't. If this ever had to happen again and I would stand for it again, I would do so just to cover myself politically for Parliament. An earlier screening of the documents took place, especially in the beginning, by name, later by asking for copies of the passports. In any case, there was always a thorough identity screening when people offered themselves at our embassy in Beirut. So people didn't come in under a false name. I do think that we should examine whether the screening of identity documents can be carried out earlier in the process. In that case, we should rely on a copy of a passport that is transmitted online or digitally. That's how we did it in the end. That could be a fake copy. It could be someone else. That can never be guaranteed 100%. The real control happens when these people present themselves at the embassy in Beirut. Then it can be established whether the identity card, passport or birth certificate is 100% correct. We already did that that way. We already asked for copies of the identity cards, not at the beginning, but certainly at the end. I think it's better to do this all the time. Then there's still not a hundred percent certainty, but it's just better of doing it, I guess. As the legislature progressed, it became increasingly difficult to analyse and assess individual applications, as after the granting of individual applications for a humanitarian visa there was always a huge increase in new applications from the same environment as the approved visa. The influx of requests through different channels, such as e-mail, mail, social media, increased exponentially. More and more questions came from the neighbouring countries or from Syria itself. These applications were collected for submission but no more files were approved. Specific guidelines to control and better control the influx of files submitted would therefore certainly be useful. At some point I said that I would not give any more approval. As the news of the approval goes around the community, the new applications for other families from Aleppo soon arrive. If hundreds of thousands of people want to come, this must be properly organised. Especially towards the end the influx was just too large. We couldn't do it this way anymore. It is appropriate to provide for an even better follow-up after the issue of the visa in Beirut. There were gradually checks and balances, such as keeping border posts, DVZ and Fedasil informed. There was not always enough feedback as to whether all persons were present at the appointments made, such as the airport, DVZ or the shelter. For example, certain people had an agreement to apply for asylum at DVZ. If they didn't show up, it had to be reported they didn't show up. That's always interesting to know. That is usually well communicated, because the border posts have done a very good job, thanks to the police and the people of the Foreign Office. That could be even better, that should always be recoupled 100 %. Finally, there is the question that has often been raised here. I have heard a number of colleagues say that they had predicted it for years, that they have said for years that something went wrong, that there was little transparency towards Parliament. I do not have any problems with optimising the flow of information to Parliament, but only if it does not endanger human lives. Many of these operations have gone into complete secrecy. Mr Geleyn and many people here have repeated this. After all, a press leak is never far away. I have no problem with the flow of information to Parliament in the future, from me or from my successor, because I think this can be useful, but I have often noticed that I have been a member of this wonderful assembly for many years and also of a number of committees which have a duty of confidentiality such as the Committee on Army Procurement that this is not always going well. That doesn't mean that everyone is responsible, but when it comes to human lives, it's not funny. I don't think D.O.D.'s purchasing records are funny either, but human lives are even less. In itself, none of that is a problem. I am pleased to be able to make a number of recommendations here, because everything can be better. I think we have completed the operation in a very good way, that we have done it in a very consensual and conscientious way. I am not afraid to make recommendations, I am glad to be able to share them here. The idea is to be able to check with each other in Parliament in dialogue now that this has happened, with many people and for three years, what could be different if we did so again. Over the last few weeks, I have given much thought and thought to this: how can it be better in the future if there is another exceptional situation such as the Syrian civil war? Of course, there is not such a heavy conflict every day at the gates of Europe with such serious humanitarian consequences, but it is not excluded. If this were to happen again and the government made the choice of trying to organise an air bridge with contact persons on the ground again, how could we try to organise this even better? That's one of the crucial research questions why we're here together today. Ladies and gentlemen, through that Syrian church community and their confidant, Melikan Kucam, some 200 relatives of Syrian Christians from Mechelen obtained a humanitarian visa. If it is proved that money was wrongly requested from those involved, it is inexcusable and must be acted hard. The person concerned strongly denies it. A judge will make a final judgment on this. I am defending my policy 100% and I wish that the Justice Department brings out the bottom line. As I said before, I caught a via-via rumor twice. The first time a very vague and rather unbelievable rumor in October. Second time in December. The humanitarian rescue operation for the Kucam Group had already been completed. But I never got to see or hear evidence myself. In both rumors, I referred to the police. I always do! I told you to go to the police and file a complaint. In December, I was confirmed that a complaint had been made. In other words, it was no longer necessary to go to the police themselves. From Mechelen politics or police, nothing has ever been reported to me or my administration. Abuseing people in need is the most unethical thing one can do. For the rest, I cannot and do not wish to explain anything further at this time, in the interest of the investigation. We have saved over 1 500 Christians from the claws of the barbarians of ISIS, al-Nusra and other Sunni rebel groups. Persecution and even death would have been their share. I'm still proud of that humanitarian operation. Did I make a mistake? Have I been gullible? These are the questions I'm struggling with. In any case, it seems that my trust has been greatly embarrassed. I certainly do not want to avoid my political responsibility. I'm not like that. Anyway, as a politician, I will always work for the protection of persecuted Christians and other religious minorities in the Middle East, North Africa and the Near East. Finally, I would like to stress that these people have grasped the opportunities offered to them in Belgium with both hands. They are only recently here, but are a very respectful and hardworking migrant community in Belgium. I would very much regret that this community is now being described as a cheating gang, for the sake of possibly a bad and shameful misstep by a single person. The worst thing I've ever done in my life is trust people. The best thing I've done in my life is trust people. At your service!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u3	Thank you very much, Mr Francken. As agreed, I shall give the floor to the members of the committee in accordance with the usual order, namely the size of the parties. I call Mrs Smeyers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u4	Mr Francken, like everyone else, I was deeply shocked by the allegations of fraud in humanitarian visas. If the claims were true and if someone had abused you and our trust in a shameless manner, they should be condemned and punished. Expressing people in need is inhumane in the most literal sense of the word. Let's put our trust in the courts. The trial is under way. Let's respect that. We could only read yesterday that it does its job. In order to clarify the whole situation, hearings were organised. The President has managed that well. The many experts who have spoken, both Mr Geeyn, the representative of the Saint-Egidius community, the Department of Foreign Affairs and the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless, said one by one that there has been no preferential treatment for certain groups of persons. There was a selection and a screening. They went through correctly. We have heard from the experts how this procedure went. There was uncertainty and there was a rumor that there was a separate list and preferential treatment for certain persons. Fortunately, that rumor has helped the world. What is also important is that each of those speakers at the hearings pointed out that there was no alternative if the vision and policy that the Michael I government set out were to be developed. Mr Francken, your motive was clear and clear. Threatened Christians had to be rescued from Syria itself and that was only possible through contacts with local communities and local church communities. As you also mentioned, a parliamentary resolution was almost unanimously adopted by the Chamber on 20 July 2017. It called on the government to pay more attention to the fate of those persecuted communities and to give them priority in resettlement policies. The Michael I government had therefore made a clear choice to make additional efforts for Christians, as they do not get into Belgium on their own. As everyone knows by now, the Syrian Christian communities have also confirmed this by the various speakers since the beginning of the civil war in 2011 suffering very severely from sectarian violence by extremist Muslims. This is particularly true for the Assyrian-Christian communities from the east of the country, which could not be rescued here on their own, not through NGOs. You did. In the meantime, Minister De Block is going hard on you. It announces that we must stop giving visas through shady intermediaries. That gate must be permanently closed, she says. I think that statement can count. It cannot be denied that you have just said that a choice for NGOs' abuse of trust cannot be completely ruled out either. Look at what has happened in recent years with several big, renowned NGOs like Oxfam and Doctors Without Borders. Abuse must be combated, prosecuted and condemned, but must not prevent us from pursuing our policy. I think that we in the N-VA are on the same page: we must be guided by our good intentions, by our straight but humanitarian vision: strict for the abusers, soft for the vulnerable. We must not let the vulnerable fall together with the abusers. Only the fraudsters need to get out, not the vulnerable. It is also very unfortunate that the issue is now being taken over by Green to argue for objective criteria. Green calls for our resettlement policy to be abandoned and moved to UNHCR. That is what I would like to remind you of the Marrakesh crisis, which is absolutely not a good idea. That is, firstly, because the UN does not allow selection on the basis of religion, which means that the majority of Muslim refugees will be selected who are much less threatened or will be able to achieve much easier on their own neighbours, such as Lebanon. Moreover, this is also important, a decision taken on the basis of objective criteria will also be open to challenge before the Belgian courts. I would remind you once again of the Marrakesh crisis. Then humanitarian visas will no longer be a favour, but a right and we will give access to our country to an international organisation and to Belgian judges. I remind you of the Marrakesh crisis. We didn't want to let that happen, and we should never let that happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u5	Mr President, I thank Mr Franken for his speech, although it sometimes raises more questions in me than answers. As my colleague from the N-VA said, we can obviously be glad that the investigation is proceeding well. There is no question here of replacing the work of justice. I would also like to point out that at no time is our willingness to call into question the opportunity to create humanitarian corridors or the principle of a humanitarian visa. The question is how these procedures have now fallen into the hands of "criminal organisations" or at least seem to have been. Like you, we are glad that lives have been saved. Of course, we do not question that. But you will understand that the importance of the matter before us today raises questions. I'll start with the middlemen. You told us, but it's not very clear to me. When did you decide to implement this humanitarian visa program? Above all, when did you decide to go through private agencies and intermediaries rather than recognized NGOs? I note that once again, you and your colleague from the N-VA are taking advantage of this opportunity to tackle NGOs. But why did you change your option and decide to go through private intermediaries? Here, however, we still have proof that, while there are sometimes loopholes on the part of NGOs, the system you have chosen does not seem safer. Can you give us the list...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u6	Mr President, I have already answered that question clearly. That question was asked in March. I will probably have all kinds of questions about things that I have already made clear. The parliamentary assistants have prepared various questions and they must therefore be asked; I am aware of that. However, I have already answered clearly that question in March. We then took a decision, in consultation with the Prime Minister and in consultation with Foreign Affairs. Then we started the operation Aleppo.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u7	Nevertheless, I would ask Mr Franken to have a minimum of correction and humility. I do my work as a parliamentarian...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u8	Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, what is the point of my introductory statement if you are simply reading out your prepared questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u9	Mr President, may I suggest that everyone should speak first, even if there are questions about matters that have already been raised?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u10	Mrs Lanjri, we will indeed organise that in that way, but it is equally true of you, because you have not been given the floor and I am not giving it to you either. Mr Francken, I will have everyone ask their questions first. At the end, after everyone has been addressed, even though it may take a little longer, you may be able to tell us which questions you have already answered or have not answered. I give the floor again to Mrs Fernandez Fernandez.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u11	I ask the question again for the simple reason that the answers seem important to me. Can you provide us with the list of intermediaries you used to issue humanitarian visas? The criteria on the basis of which you selected the intermediaries in question do not seem clear. Everyone tells us that no screening of these intermediaries has been carried out. Can you tell us why? As you explained to us, these people still played an essential role. How were visa recipients selected? You have partly answered the question, but the representatives of Sant'Egidio are talking about a convention defining vulnerability as the first criterion of selection. Did such a convention exist for all the people you worked with to issue these visas? Was a staff member of your firm responsible for effectively assessing this vulnerability? If not, why? Both the Office of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and Stateless Persons (CCRA) and the Office of Foreigners have told us that they have not been asked for anything other than a security screening, which you have confirmed, if I am not mistaken. However, it is these services which are competent in Belgian law to judge this vulnerability. Why have they not been applied for under the humanitarian visa procedure? The representatives of Sant'Egidio also informed us that a list of 150 names of Christians (75 in Lebanon and 75 in Turkey) was transmitted to them by you in order to bring them into the humanitarian corridors. How and by whom was this list drawn up? Who gave it to you? What were the procedures in place to select these individuals? You did address the issue in detail once the list had been given to you, but I do not understand how the procedure was going before the list came into your hands, and I think it would probably have been a matter of concern. The same representative pointed out that the restriction of access to the Christian program had been introduced at your request and against their opinion. According to them, other religious minorities could also be considered vulnerable and thus eligible for relief. Can you tell us why you decided that this criterion would be exclusive in the selection? How did you feel that other religious or philosophical minorities could not benefit from this programme? Have you based yourself on any course of action of your services or solely on your ideological convictions? As you said, you've heard rumors on several occasions. You said it in the press and you told us here. You are told how the procedure was almost exclusively managed by your firm, so I find it very disturbing that you heard rumours about things that are not going very well, about a procedure almost exclusively managed by your firm, and that you said that you had referred the case to the courts and the police. I would like to know who the people were, without mentioning names, but who they were in relation to you, who told you about these rumors. Are these the people you sent back to the police? Are these other people? How did things go? Mr President, my first questions are asked, but I will certainly come back, in a second round, if I consider it appropriate, whether or not this has been prepared by my colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, there are two aspects to this dossier, and we all know that. One of them is, in fact, about rescue operations, whether they are carried out on your initiative or on the initiative of the government. It raises problems of procedure and understanding, on which we were fortunately given ample explanations at previous meetings. The other aspect relates to the sometimes troubled role played by a number of stakeholders in these rescue operations. We all know that. I have two types of questions to ask, but I understand in advance that the answers must be measured in the light of the ongoing judicial investigation, and that we cannot risk disrupting it. My first set of questions relates to rescue operations, both upstream and downstream. I'll start from the top. Mr. De Volder, who was the representative and your interlocutor for the Sant'Egidio community, explained to us a week ago that his role and that of his association had the merit, in relation to the traditional rescue operations, if one can speak this way, to allow one to know in advance who would come to Belgium. And so to be able to select people by being certain that their arrival in Belgium was well justified, and called upon to take place in good conditions. I am personally less certain about this at the hearing of the other speakers. With UNHCR, we just learned that there was not always a registration. Who was actually in charge of screening? The question remains complete, the answers lacking clarity on this subject. I would like to know what role you played, as Secretary of State at the time, in screening the people who were on the lists and arrived in Belgium. Was this screening sufficient or not in your eyes? Or is this another point that needs to be improved? First thing. A second element relates to the follow-up of the persons concerned. This operation, according to Mr. De Volder, has worked well since on the first group arrived in Belgium, all - except two people - received protection as soon as they entered our territory. The operation seems to be still under way, the last candidates having arrived in December 2018 and not yet, to my knowledge, having protection. Has there been any follow-up on these persons, between the time of their arrival in Belgium and the time of the issue of protection? Not necessarily by you, Mr. Franken, but by the Secretary of State or his cabinet? Could you give us a word of explanation on this? Now I'm going to the middlemen. I do not know, Mr Franken, to what extent you have personally intervened in the choice of the latter, but you have stated on several occasions - and in particular in an interview preceding a debate in which I was involved - that you have recorded "rumurs". The lawyer for the person currently in detention speaks instead of "information". I ask you for a precise answer: what did you learn about this? Was it rumors or information? The distinction between the two induces a different reaction in terms of repercussions at the level of the police services. So what exactly did you hear from third parties about this situation when you advised these people to contact the police? Finally, Mr Franken, you have made a pertinent suggestion for improvements to this operation, which, I repeat, has worked very well. On the other hand, I have not heard you comment on any improvements in your administration or office as part of this operation. Do you consider that everything worked well in your office as part of this rescue operation and the humanitarian corridor you initiated?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a short month ago I said in the hemisphere that I had rarely been as angry as I was about this humanitarian visa abuse affair. That feeling of anger isn't gone yet. On the contrary, I am still angry and outraged at the lack of transparency in the way humanitarian visas were delivered. More transparency has been called for over and over again, but this question has been rejected. Was this because you didn't want peepers? Was this because you wanted to determine the rules of the game and didn't want to give anyone access, not even your own administration? Parliament's control and transparency was not possible. If there is nothing to hide, there should be no fear of democratic control. It makes me angry and sad to find that people have been exploited. Big money was paid for those humanitarian visas. This could have been avoided if there had been more transparency, and especially more checks and balances, around this case. Let me be very clear. For the CD&V Group, the possibility to issue humanitarian visas through the discretionary power of a minister or a State Secretary is a very good instrument. The CD&V group is 100% behind this and should remain so in the future. For example, it is possible to respond to distressing situations where there is no other way to bring people to Belgium in a safe and legal way. The rescue operations are testifying to this. No one has a problem with that, and we encouraged it, that people were saved from a terrible fate. The humanitarian corridors of Sant'Egidio, the rescue operation of Mr Geeyn and his group and the resolution in cooperation with the United Nations are excellent initiatives. It is a pity that you said six months ago, Mr Francken, that you were quitting the resolution. The CD&V Group had just called for more resolution and you put that on hold. In other cases too, such a humanitarian visa can be a good way of providing a solution, for example for a child of a refugee recognised in Belgium who has transferred his wife and two children aged nine and ten, but who still has an 18-year-old child in a refugee camp in Lebanon, who cannot come to Belgium on that basis because of the strict interpretation of family reunification. Then a humanitarian visa is the perfect tool to remedy such a situation. The law thus allows the competent State Secretary or Minister to issue humanitarian visas. Case by case is considered whether someone should be admitted to our country. You also had that opportunity to decide who could come to our country and who couldn't. You had great freedom, but you also had a very heavy responsibility. Precisely because you had that great freedom, you must also respect the rules of good governance, even more so than in other cases that are better defined in the law. The discretionary power should actually have invited you to even more caution, more care, more transparency and more control. That's exactly where it went wrong with you and your cabinet. Where did it go wrong? Not with the resettlement. That went well. The Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless and UNHCR were involved. Let us, above all, continue such operations in the future. It didn't miss out on the rescue operations either. We received good examples of this during the hearings. We have already discussed this in Parliament in the past. These operations were a response to resolutions that we had approved in Parliament. So far there was no problem. Afterwards, they returned to Parliament and the government. In the case of rescue operations, we found that this had been worked out enormously, for example in the case of Sant'Egidio. There were even three interviews to see if people were vulnerable. There was a long negotiation with you and your cabinet to arrive at a contract or an agreement. That agreement was justified in terms of what the requirements were. You also made demands on country of origin, transit country, candidate religion, definition of vulnerability and the role of Fedasil. These are all things that were put on paper and went very well. It also did not fail in the case of individual applications that may have been made directly through the DVZ or the embassy. The ambassador has told us that the file was always forwarded to the DVZ to perform a substantive screening. So, where did it go wrong? It went wrong when you chose to leave all these paths, where there is control. You chose a shortcut, a corridor of ours knows us. Apparently, you had more faith in your partymate than in your own administration. You believed Mr Kucam blindly. In this case, therefore, there was no check on the country of origin or transit country, as with the other files. What bothers us most is that no checks were made on vulnerability. You just said that here. On your records, you did a formal check. The documents may have been fine, but for the rest, no check was carried out. You ordered the DVZ to issue visas on the basis of your discretion. Yes, you could. Mr Kucam gave you lists of names. Those lists passed your cabinet to the DVZ to deliver a visa and to cooperate with the embassy for this. You just asked for the security check, but not a substantive check, as happened with others. That is fundamentally unfair. That's not correct. One person gets a visa without a prior check to check whether it is a vulnerable person. In all other cases, it was indeed checked whether these people were indeed vulnerable and we had to give them access to our country. For the sake of clarity, I would like to quote Mr Roosemont: "If the Secretary of State or the Minister responsible asks to give those people an authorisation to stay, we will do so. Whether they're vulnerable or not, it's his decision and not that of the DVZ.'. You've outlawed your own administration. You could have involved them, but you chose not to. That is why I would like to ask you a number of clear questions. I hope I can get an answer to that without a detour. Why did you apply this way of working to certain groups? Why was the DVZ not allowed to give advice on the people you had been given through Mr Kucam? Did you blindly trust that man? You yourself say that there was no real screening in your cabinet, just a formal check. Why didn't you give confidence to the DVZ who still has the necessary expertise? You also stated that you saved many people from the claws of ISIS, but how did you check the origin of the people who requested a visa via Kucam? Were all of these people still in Syria? Or were there also people in the meantime in a "safe country"? That's what you call it. In other cases, you used to talk about people in safe areas that you shouldn't do anything about. What exactly is the situation and do you have any figures? Were you aware of the abuses? When was that? There was a great deal of uncertainty about this. You stated first that it was December, then you said September. It is true that the lawyer in the Seventh Day stated that his client had informed him in July and that his client had informed your cabinet in July of a woman who was very satisfied that she had received that visa, because it was cheaper for us than in Sweden. At least there were rumors. In any case, those are the words of the lawyer, who said on the Seventh Day that this was already in contact in July and about the fact that payment was made. If you knew that in July, why didn't you go straight to the courthouse or the police? Humanitarian visas were issued for July, August and September: 180, 193 and 258. Shouldn't you have been more careful with the business? If you catch rumors about your jurisdiction, will you do everything you can to make sure you're covered? Then you'll at least report to the police cases you don't have a clue about. That didn't happen. Of all those who have come to our country in other ways, certainly those from the rescue group have applied for asylum and received protection in a refugee or subsidiary status. You explained that, too. However, it is not clear whether the people of Kucam's lists have asked for asylum. I've asked Roosemont and Van den Bulck if they've asked for asylum. Now it appears that not everyone has applied for asylum. You say that this is not a problem, as the people concerned can go on with their visas for another year. We are aware of that, but why is it said to all those who come through the rescue operations that they should apply for asylum and not to those people? Is it perhaps because there is a risk that they will be rejected because they are not vulnerable? We know from those who have come here after a rescue operation that there has been a preliminary check on whether they are people who need protection. There was a preliminary substantive screening. For the Kucam lists, the substantive screening did not take place in advance and the persons concerned run the risk of being rejected when they apply for asylum. They can wait a year. Perhaps they have not yet applied for asylum because they did not intend to apply for asylum in the first place. You claim they will. No, you know better than anyone that the law provides for the possibility that a visa, even if one does not apply for asylum, can in principle be renewed after one year. That's one possibility. Another possibility is that the parties concerned should request humanitarian regularisation. The discretion of the State Secretary or the Minister can also be used for this purpose. So it may well be that those concerned do not even intend to apply for asylum because they know that they are not eligible and intend to ask you later whether they can stay. Once again, you could have decided on this entirely by your discretion. I hope that we will have a clear answer to all those questions that we remain with. I'm also asking you to stop raising fog curtains. I hear that again here. You did the same last week. Allow me to give a concrete example of this. When we heard Mr Van den Bulck here, of course, he was right to say that everyone applying for asylum is treated in the same way. That's only logical. You then used that to confirm your right in the media. Again. Mrs Smeyers also refers to the expert's statement that everything was done correctly, to prove her right. No! Those people have stated that people who have arrived here and applied for asylum have received the same treatment. That Mr Van den Bulck treats people in a similar way, correctly, I think that is only logical. But that's not the point. The problem was not there, the problem is still not there. This is about the second phase, what one does when the people concerned are on our territory. The problem is in phase 1, when we have to decide on who is to be given access to our territory and who is not. Is the authorisation based on a transparent and objective procedure or is it arbitrary? What we have established here is that there was arbitrariness in the game. After all, what have we established? That is that most of the people who applied through the normal routes were screened in terms of content, but there was no control whatsoever for the Kucam groups. That's what we're suing. That is what we call political clientelism. I explained that, and I'm gonna keep explaining it. If all those concerned had been given access in the same way, I would not put that forward. So it went wrong at the time when we had to speak about who could or could not be given access to our country. The hearings on humanitare visas have shown very clearly that there was a problem with some of the individual applications. There was no such problem in the other applications. With the rescue operations, there is no problem, although some things might be better. However, that is not the problem. The problem was with some of the individual applications. Indeed, as Mr Roosemont also pointed out, the normal route through the embassy or the Foreign Affairs Office is less or less likely to be successful. Two thirds of applications through the embassy or the Aliens Office are rejected on the basis of the substantive screening, which is carried out in that context. On the other hand, for those who did not go through the Foreign Office or the embassy, but took the shortcut through the cabinet, success was assured.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u14	Mrs Lanjri, this is a hearing by Mr Francken and not a discussion with Mrs Smeyers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u15	Mr President, I will conclude. Can Parliament still speak? This is an important matter. I hope you will give Parliament the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u16	Mrs Lanjri, Parliament may speak. When the chairman says something, I'll tell him. I just want to point out that we have a hearing here with Mr Francken. Of course, you can explain all kinds of things. That is your parliamentary freedom. Mr Francken has dealt with a number of issues. Apparently, you haven't listened to everything, because he's given us a number of things.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u17	Mr President, I listened very carefully to him.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u18	However, you are not supposed to turn your attention to another Member. The hearing's supposed to go normally. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u19	Mr President, I would like to conclude. I made it very clear that this is a complex matter. I expect those who know the files well and are familiar with the procedures, such as Mr Francken or Mrs Smeyers, that he or she does not spray fog and throw everything into a pile. That's not correct. I would like to point out that the abuses that have been there should never have happened. Every effort must therefore be made to prevent them. We in Parliament have warned about this time and again and said that we must ensure greater transparency. That didn't happen. Nevertheless, we believe that the humanitarian visa procedure is good. It should remain possible to assess on a case-by-case basis, including in the future. However, this must be done with greater transparency and controls. At least let the DVZ decide on the files. As in the case of rescue operations, it is very important to continue to involve international organisations such as UNHCR or UNICEF. In other cases, for individual applications, where it is not possible to involve international organisations, a good dossier with a substantive check of vulnerability should be considered, with criteria such as the vulnerability of the person and links with residents of our country. That's what it's about. We have said this in the past, but unfortunately we have not been listened to. You say that you would like to inform Parliament but that in future we must also ensure that humanitarian visas are issued without risk to the people on the ground. No one has ever asked you here to give us lists of names. We have always asked how the procedure went, what criteria you used and what type of people were eligible, how they were working. That's what it was about. I've never asked for names, and I won't in the future. After all, we know that such issues are particularly delicate. However, there should have been much more transparency. Then perhaps the whole fuss about humanitarian visas could have been avoided.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u20	Mr President, I will be a little bit more concise in my question. First and foremost, I have also exercised six years of competence to defend the system of humanitarian visas or regularisations based on what is called the discretion of the minister concerned. Of course, the exercise of a discretionary power is not the same as an arbitrary or arbitrary power. A number of considerations need to be met. The need to involve vulnerable groups in these matters is quite obvious. So the Minister or the Secretary of State is not an emperor-choster who can stick his thumb up or down. There has to be an understanding of good governance. All cases are assessed on a case-by-case basis............................................................................................................................................................................................ I continue to have a very difficult time with these different categories, and I have not received a convincing answer to that. There may be a disagreement between the two of us. Perhaps Mr Francken says that he continues to defend that, but I continue to have a hard time with that, because a discretionary power is not, once again, the same thing as doing his will and doing things as they think they should, without having to be taken into account. Again, it's a favor measure. There are few criteria laid down in the law, no clear criteria, and that is precisely the difference between a favour and a right: if criteria are to be laid down, we will create objective rights, while dealing with cases and we will decide within the framework of a favour regime. That sounds rather theoretical, but it is important for me to make my point about the way this has apparently gone into its work. I will come back to the number of figures and cases, but I did not understand how the cabinet procedure actually went. Mr Francken gave an overview with a number of steps. My question is exactly what screening took place in the cabinet? There were suppliers of lists and there was no uniformity among them. If it was Sant'Egidio, I understood last week that they had concluded a certain agreement, but if it was Mr Kucam or others, then those were pure lists that were transferred. The hearing with Mr Roosemont did not clarify either, because he said he did not ask questions about exactly what had happened in the cabinet. The administration got that list and carried it out. He did add that there was a safety check, and that should still be wrong, but it is absolutely not clear to me whether a screening had taken place in view of some kind of vulnerability. Or did a number of suppliers get a license on some basis of fitness from the list they transferred, in the sense of "I'm a mailbox in the cabinet and I just transfer it to the DVZ and those people all get a visa"? If that is what Mr Francken wants, then I would like to hear in his reply how he saw that procedure. Again, that this was very hot in Syria over a certain period of time and that terrible things have happened, we all agree on that. We also agree with the general reason why the government has decided to pursue a policy for this, but the individual exercise of that policy was a matter for Mr Francken and I would like to know exactly what the role of the cabinet was there. A sub-question, did it happen that a list came in, whether it came from Scherpenheuvel, Kucam or Sant'Egidio, and that the cabinet deleted a name? If so, on what basis? I would like to say once again that apparently there was another screening by the DVZ and that there was therefore a 'two-track approach' in the exercise of one and the same competence. The exercise of the power by the State Secretary himself who said, "this list must go through" and, on the other hand, the DVD which did carry out screening according to criteria or procedures they applied. Then my question is also whether Mr Francken then signed the visas that were issued or did so directly by the DVZ. In one case he signed himself, in the other case it was apparently a delegated power or the files that had been created through the DVZ then returned to his cabinet for the final signing of the humanitarian visa. That's also a question I'm asking myself. Secondly, and I have just referred to it: the figures. The situation in Syria is problematic, but it has calmed down a little over time, if I may put it that way. In '15, it was particularly dangerous. In the years '16 and '17, when one looks at the figures, they continue to rise exponentially. Which, of course, leads me to the idea that a new channel has been created here. This is not the intention of a discretionary power which should be exceptional. That's an exception procedure. Of course, when one sees that in '15, and afterwards in '16 and '17, the numbers continue to rise, one gets the impression that one has created a channel, or several channels, and that no longer corresponds to the reason why that system was actually conceived. All the more so because I read and heard that it was often about the transfer of people who had family here, brothers, sisters. That has a name, that's family reunification. For family reunification we have a system. We have even strengthened this system of family reunification with this Parliament. It is not logical that a legal system should be tightened up on the one hand, while on the other hand, an exception system for humanitarian visas is being introduced in an improper way to ensure that family reunification is carried out. I have one more question about that agreement. Mr De Volder came here to say that they had an agreement and that they had the names checked and screened through a number of organisations. Why did you admit, Mr Francken, that one supplier apparently fulfilled a number of obligations when you apparently acted in some form of blind confidence for others? It was almost always "always hit, always price." One had to show a few things, and the other didn't have to. For me, therefore, it is still about a different interpretation of one and the same competence. Those are my questions for the time being. Mr President, we need to look at what we do as a committee. We've heard some people here now. We are, of course, not a committee of inquiry, and we do not want to interfere in any way with the judicial investigation, but Mrs De Block, who is the current holder, has announced that she is also finalising an administrative inquiry. Today, I do not want to rule out the fact that, on the basis of the elements that will emerge from it, we would still like to come back to some things if Mr Francken is prepared to do so. For today he was willing to do so and he has also made his appearance, although we have no regulatory obligation to get him there. If Mrs. De Block comes up with her report in two weeks, there may be new questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u21	On that last point, I can tell you that Mrs De Block will be here next week to answer the topical and oral questions. There are still a number of points that it is not yet able to clarify because the investigation is still ongoing. That would run until the end of this month. Then we will look at how it can deal with this information and what we will do with it in the next scheme of work. I call Mrs De Coninck.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u22	I would like to thank Mr Francken for his explanation, although I do have a number of questions. You speak of vulnerable Christians. Were they that vulnerable? I've been looking up a number of articles on the subject in the last few days. Christians in Syria were often the highly educated and relatively rich. They often had two houses, one in the city and one in the country. Given that they were very well integrated, had trading and property, they wanted to stay in Syria for as long as possible. You yourself said just now that many Christians were even integrated into Assad's army. It also appears that Christians hardly appear on the lists of the United Nations refugee shelter because, as was shown in the hearing last week, they had their own ways of saving themselves. They also had a lot of resources. They're relatively rich. This also made it much easier for them to buy visas to create a solution for their personal situation. In short, Mr Francken, I do not agree with you saying that this was not a VIP treatment. You have helped people to get to Belgium quickly while in 2018 you decided to limit the queue at the DVZ to 50 people and leave people in the cold. You cannot explain to me that the treatment received through a number of intermediaries was not an exceptional treatment, a type of VIP treatment based on resources. You are now referring to the resolution on religious minorities. Just so we're clear, I abstained. The report on the discussion of that resolution shows that your NVA colleague Peter Luykx has made an intervention on: what is priority? Priority for him meant that it was a problem that deserves attention. He says that this could be one of the many possible spearheads of foreign policy. So it's not the only spearhead. He even says, "I don't see a hierarchy." The religious doesn't necessarily have to be the first spearhead. Why am I quoting this? Because "religious minorities" are not equal to "a Christian minority." There are many other religious minorities in Syria. Honor who deserves credit, Sant' Egidio has shown more openness and has extended the concept beyond "a Christian background." I have a question about the opinion of the CGVS. For the Aleppo file, you did ask for the opinion of the CGVS. You haven't done that since. Why didn't you do that anymore?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u23	I answered that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u24	Mr Francken, you did not answer that. Same for the DVZ. Why did you give the DVZ such a minimal role? Thirdly, the Commissioner said that consultations have taken place between the cabinet and other bodies to develop a private arrangement, a private settlement. Why did these talks stop? Fourthly, we heard from the Consul in Beirut that an e-mail had arrived asking to receive Mr Kucam personally. Was that normal? Was that exceptional? What were the reasons for that? Fifthly, Sant'Egidio had developed a good practice, a good procedure that could be used as an example. Why was this procedure, in order to sign a contract and follow a number of rules of the game, not used for all trusted persons identified? Then I have a question about the ex post guidance. For the project of Sant'Egidio Caritas did the guidance afterwards, very intensively until a year after the people arrived here. One of the elements on which clear agreements had been made was that the people who came through Sant'Egidio had to apply for asylum within two to three days. That was one of the conditions. Why wasn't that imposed on the other files? I do not know whether it is true that 134 out of 305 people who are linked to Mr Kucam Syrians have applied for asylum for the sake of clarity. The rest haven't done that yet. You say that they still have time, and that is true, but I would like to ask you that this has not yet happened. Why didn't you ask yourself any questions? You say that in October you stopped the procedures with trusted persons, but why not in October 2018? After all, the peak of the crisis is in 2015, with an extension to 2016. Did you stop in October because you also heard rumors about the sale of visas for amounts up to EUR 10 000 by Mr Kucam? Mr Dewael has already said a lot about discretionary powers, so I am not going to repeat that. We have clearly said that we should not throw the child away with the bath water: it is not because it has been abused that it is not a good procedure. We agree that it must be an exceptional instrument and that there must be good arguments for using it. If one uses it, one can also exercise ex post control with an audit. We even have a Federal Internal Audit Service, which you could have asked to look through perfectly. Another audit is answering the questions of Members of Parliament. Questions have not been answered. You're talking about press leaks that could put people in danger. We really do not put individuals at risk if we ask for global figures on types of visas. However, if we had received an answer to our question, we would have seen that the number of humanitarian visas, whether it was a C visa or a D visa, was on the increase. Then we could have asked legitimate questions about this. It is to your credit that you make recommendations, but you should have known and applied those recommendations, which are actually principles of good governance. I'm thinking of being transparent, following up on your files, providing information. After all, you say at some point that there have been lists of the contact persons and of how many people they have brought here and got those visas. For the record, both DVZ and Myria have had to rely on a tweet of yours. That is the official communication in this Parliament, a tweet with a table. Never washed a good crisis, I hope they learn from it. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have always been very critical of others, especially international organisations and lawyers, but you have not been critical of your own selection of trusted persons. That's pretty bad. You say you're tough on fraudsters and you saved people from the claws of ISIS, but you don't really know. You can't prove that that's the case. If I wanted to be bad, I could say that you have also brought a number of people here who have integrated themselves very quickly into the black cocaine trade. Prove it wrong. We don't know. Of these 305 people, only 134 have officially applied for asylum. Where's the rest of it? Are they still in Belgium or have they travelled through? I'd really like to know. To conclude, you refused in 2016 at the Beirut Embassy an application from a Christian family, which was in Aleppo, Syria, arguing that nothing prevents them from living a normal life in Aleppo and having a relationship with their family in Belgium, despite the conflict. This means that your slogan is harsh for fraudsters and soft for vulnerable people isn't so right.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u25	Mr President, Mr Francken, first of all I would like to thank you for addressing our group's request to come to this sitting so that we can ask you a few questions. However, given your combatability, I have not doubted for a second that you would not answer our question. After your introduction, which I listened very carefully, I must say that it would have decorated you if you had clearly admitted that your policy was wrong. At a number of moments, you have withdrawn earlier statements from yourself. You used to say that you saved people from the claws of ISIS, which is factually incorrect. In the meantime, you have also added Al-Nusra. In one of your recommendations, you are now also saying that you want to work with the United Nations as a matter of priority, while you used to rattle the UN, since in your opinion the UN could not contribute anything to our system of humanitarian visas. At some point in your speech, you literally say that you are defending your policy at 100%. I am very sorry about that. That is not the answer that people outside Parliament want to hear. The people outside Parliament are indignant and angry about the abuse and fraud that have come to light. They watch head-shakingly and only wonder where you were sitting with your thoughts. How is it possible that you have chosen to work with a number of individual shady intermediaries, without the government being aware of them and without any form of control? Your policy has been derailed and the worst thing is that it wasn't actually an accident, but it was because of your deliberate choice to work with VIP access tickets to your cabinet for people who happened to have the right party member card. The result is a proliferation of methods, one more unreliable than the other. Mr Francken, I have ten questions for you. First of all, why were you working with those shady middlemen? If you want to make an effort to accommodate vulnerable people in Belgium, I have to tell you that there are many vulnerable people in the world. In the region in question, Syria, the UN is active, as we know in the meantime. Contrary to what you have always said, the UN has been active there since 2015 and has six offices. Saint' Egidio, an organisation with which you have worked well and correctly, is active in Lebanon and Turkey. The construction of such shadowy structures was therefore not necessary at all. That's why I'm asking you why the hell you did that. At best, this is bad governance. As strict as you normally are about asylum, your policy in this area was amateurish, naive, lax and plundered with friendliness. You didn't give any explanation for that. You have tried to create a certain degree of objectivity by going into the nine steps that everyone must go through before being eligible for a humanitarian visa. The cabinet is active in almost each of those nine steps. The crucial question is, of course, how did the lists of people who were delivered to your cabinet and apparently were stamped without much control and forwarded to the consulate where humanitarian visas were then even distributed on the streets by all kinds of intermediaries. This isn't in those nine steps. How did those lists come about? What names were set up there? What control have you or have you not exercised? This precedes the nine steps you have described. This question is being discussed in Parliament today. Second question. How can you explain as a member of the government that in autumn 2018 you will hear twice rumors of possible fraud, corruption and abuse without going to the police or the Justice Department and without giving the order within your administration to investigate this to the bone? You have not explained this. We are still waiting for a plausible answer. In the newspaper, you say you didn't face Melikan Kucam yourself with those rumors of not waking up sleeping dogs. That's guilty negligence. Colleague politicians of yours have gone to the police and justice, which you have not done. That's a particularly weak defense. We didn't actually get an explanation for that. Third question. In Het Laatste Nieuws of 18 January, you say that you spoke to your employee about this issue. Why didn't you act more decisively and keep all the intermediaries under review? The rumors you had heard twice in the past few months were the perfect reason to look critically at the system. It is quite remarkable that you have not done so in those months. Fourth question. To what extent were you directly involved in delivering the humanitarian visas? How was the division of tasks with your cabinet clerk? Have you checked the way the cabinet employee works in any way? Did you let her do it? The lists were delivered to the cabinet assistant by Melikan Kucam and Konstantin Al Chammas. Have you ever reviewed that policy critically in the last 4.5 years? Question five. To what extent are you sure that humanitarian visas have gone to people in vulnerable situations? I think I know the answer to that question. You cannot say that for sure, because there has been no check on the vulnerability or the way in which the selection of the people who have entered those lists has been made. Mr Roosemont of the DVZ has admitted that. Mr Van den Bulck of the CGVS has admitted this. Nowhere in your nine steps, nowhere in your entire system there is control over the vulnerability and selection. Surely that is a gross negligence, which you cannot really explain to the people. You now have the opportunity to come back to that and give an answer. Question six. Today we know the problems with a number of individual intermediaries, Melikan Kucam, Konstantin Al Chammas and Karim Van Overmeire, three cabinet confidants who could transfer lists of names without many difficult questions and who could get a humanitarian visa very quickly, almost as an automatism. You've used as many as 16 intermediaries. I understand from your introduction that you have in no way subjected those individual intermediaries themselves to screening at any time. For some of them, an N-VA card was sufficient as a certificate of credibility to be able to work together. How is it possible that you have given the trust to those people in such a way? Good connections with you and your party, good connections with the cabinet were enough to give those people an official position in official decision-making in official humanitarian visa procedures. In fact, you should have known that, because the advice of the UN states very explicitly that humanitarian visas and resettlement, which happen to people, are particularly susceptible to fraud. How is it possible that you never asked those questions and never did that control? There has been a lot to do about Melikan Kucam, while less was said about Konstantin Al Chammas. Mr Francken, this is an opportunity to ask you a number of questions. Apparently, the link is also an N-VA party member, being Karim Van Overmeire. Can you tell us from which transit country the people who have come here through Al Chammas have been transferred? Have you heard any rumors of possible fraud there? Did you check that out? Were there any checks on vulnerability there, just as other intermediaries apparently did? Was there an arbitrary way of working with the people of Al Chammas as with the people of Melikan Kucam? With regard to these intermediaries, I would like to ask you how that actually went. You have accepted this in part, but have you ever refused intermediaries, for example? Have there been any people who have presented themselves to you with the proposal to create a corridor, to whom you have said no? Question seven. If we analyse your methods, we can see that you have pushed all the official bodies aside. The Foreign Affairs Department was not involved and apparently had to put a mere stamp on it. However, in the case of ordinary humanitarian visas, the DVZ can do a check. The Foreign Office could have been an extra check in the system, you didn't use it. You have only involved the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless once, at the very beginning, at the time of the rescue operation in 2015. The Commissioner-General was able to carry out a check there. You say quite easily that the involvement of the Commissioner-General was not possible because of the 48-hour deadline, which starts to run after the issue of a humanitarian visa. One then has 48 hours to go in and leave the country. Of course, you could have perfectly involved the Commissioner-General prior to that 48-hour period. In other words, you could have given the list of people to the Commissioner-General, organised a mission, had a check done and then handed out the humanitarian visas. Only then would that 48-hour period have begun. It's been your choice not to. What was your motivation in that respect? Question eight. The advice of the UN Refugee Organisation is particularly interesting because it actually contradicts some of your arguments. Contrary to what you have always said, the UN Refugee Organisation can therefore play a significant role in humanitarian visas. It is already active in this area in a number of countries. Germany, Austria and France are working closely with the UN Refugee Organisation, which also offers our country to help with humanitarian visas. All you can say is that you didn't know. Apparently, you've been waiting. Apparently, when you invented your system, you didn't have the reflex to contact an official agency like the United Nations. The organisation is also active in Syria. Since 2015, the UN has had six offices there, including in Aleppo, Mr Francken. The argument that you had no choice but to cooperate with intermediaries is therefore incorrect. The UN Refugee Organisation has offices, a network and expertise in Syria. So if you're setting up rescue operations from Syria, then it's logic to think of the UN for cooperation in a first reflex rather than all sorts of shady intermediates and party members of the N-VA. So you've made a very strange choice in recent years. You had a very strange priority. In addition, in their opinion, the UN says that they even have experience in setting up humanitarian corridors, right from a conflict zone. Most of the time, they work differently. That is true, but they do say that they have that experience. That is what they say in point 12 of the opinion. Your central line of defense is that you wouldn't have been able to save those people if you hadn't called on those intermediaries. I have the following comments to make. Sant'Egidio's rescue operations did not take place from Syria, but from Turkey and Lebanon. Most of the people who arrived in Belgium via your system have had to make their own escape from Syria and have come to Lebanon or Turkey on their own. From there, the rescue operation was set up. That's how Sant'Egidio worked. Melikan Kucam was not in Aleppo, but was already handing out documents in Beirut. The UN is active as an official organisation in those neighbouring countries, as well as in Syria from 2015. So there was no reason to open that door to abuse and fraud, as you have done. The importance of this opinion is particularly great and it confirms what we have always said, namely that we must cooperate with the UN on humanitarian visas, alongside a number of other recognised organisations. That could have prevented the abuse and fraud that we saw. Why did you refuse to appeal to the United Nations? The way in which you have spoken about the UN over the last few months shows some arrogance. You always claimed that the UN could not mean anything in the field of humanitarian visas, but the document in question proves the opposite. All this time you have had more confidence in your N-VA friends than in an official organisation such as the UN, which has experience and was present in Syria. In fact, you should be ashamed, because that kind of incompetence has left us as a country the opportunity to develop a pure system, to grant humanitarian visas in an objective way. Your policy was based on carelessness and clientelism, and the result was a complete derailment. Fourthly, I would like to ask you a precise question about a statement made by Mr De Volder of Sant'Egidio here in Parliament. Sant'Egidio, unlike the Francken-Kucam system or the Gelyn system, has worked in a well-framed way. Sant'Egidio has concluded a protocol with the government. It has used vulnerability as a criterion and not religion. But apparently at some point, Mr Francken, you asked Sant'Egidio to have a group of some 40 Assyrian Christians fly from Turkey to Belgium. Sant'Egidio had serious problems with this, because the organization did not really want to do so. She didn't want to select by religion. For her, it was about vulnerability. Moreover, the UN is also very clear. It also says that resolution, relocation or issue of humanitarian visas must be made on the basis of vulnerability. Why did you specifically ask that question? I find this rather bizarre to select on the basis of religion anyway? Sant'Egidio had the greatest reservations. A resolution has indeed been adopted here, ladies and gentlemen, twice, last time in 2017, in which Parliament asks the government to make the protection of religious minorities a priority. At that time we were the only group to abstain. If you read the report, ladies and gentlemen of the N-VA, you will see why and then you will have to admit that our reservations are justified today. We said at that time that it threatened to derail a policy of resettlement of persons with a humanitarian visa in which one does not use so much vulnerability as a criterion, but religion. Today we see the derailment that has led to this. Our doubts and reservations were therefore particularly justified. I come to my final question. I refer to a statement by the Belgian consul in the Chamber. He stated that on 14 September 2018 he received an e-mail from a cabinet employee asking you to treat Melikan Kucam as a privileged contact person. The consul called that unusual, because the e-mail left the cabinet instead of the administration. Mr Francken, was it the culture in your cabinet that people worked directly by the cabinet rather than by the administration? Was there a similar way of working in other areas of your Department of Asylum and Migration? Anyway, I was paying attention when you described the nine steps. The e-mail from the cabinet to the consul is in no way in the nine official steps you have just outlined. Apparently, that was a derailment in the context of the so-called objective procedure, which you are so keen to prove. I'm concluding. What we see is not an accident the course, but the result of a mispolicy. You could have prevented that perfectly. In fact, you, and course the route, put everyone with expertise aside: the Foreign Office, the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless, the United Nations. At the same time, you have chosen to work closely with shady figures, such as Melikan Kucam. Well, you did push it to the chest, didn't you? Moreover, when you were aware of the rumors, you did not actually do anything with them. Your political responsibility, Mr Francken, is immense. Lucky for you, you're not a member of the government anymore, otherwise you should have resigned. It has been your choice and your choice only to derail the policy on humanitarian visas, a policy aimed at protecting the most vulnerable. You could have prevented that. Let us now take the necessary steps to ensure that in the future the room for manoeuvre of a Secretary of State is not so great. I would therefore like to respond to the disinformation we have just heard from Mr Smeyers, of course in the best N-VA tradition. Mrs Smeyers, if you had listened carefully to what we have said, you would have known that, in the reform of the humanitarian visa system, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is still in favour of maintaining the government's discretionary powers, because we do not want to open the doors to anyone who is in a vulnerable situation. That would not be realistic. If you say that, according to Ecolo-Groen, the doors will be opened and access to the country would then be withdrawn from the government, then I would like to ask you where we said that. If you want to keep any more serious as a Member of Parliament, Mrs Smeyers, you will now come forward with a quote to prove it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u26	Mr De Vriendt, would you like to conclude? I would like to give Mr Francken the opportunity to insert a stop.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u27	No problem, Mr President, but if we are criticized by a fellow Member of Parliament, then you should also leave us the opportunity to respond. If we allow Mr Francken to do so, then there is fraud with intermediaries. Our choice is to work with the UN and recognised organisations. There is perhaps the difference between our groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u28	I shall suspend the sitting until Mr Francken returns.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u29	Mr Dallemagne, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u30	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, thank you for the information you have provided us. Like other colleagues, I obviously very much care about the mechanism of the humanitarian visa. It is the oldest instrument of international protection for people fleeing war, dictatorship and oppression. The ancestor of the humanitarian visa was the Nansen passport which was introduced in 1922, when the Red Terror in the Soviet Union took place. It is an instrument that must remain an important instrument, which must be able to be used with great flexibility and responsiveness. And I am pleased that Belgium has been able to use it in particular in the Syrian conflict. On the other hand, Secretary of State, allow me to return for a moment to some important elements of your argument. You say that you essentially carried out a rescue operation, that there were no other possibilities, no other means to save and protect the Christians in Syria. You also say that you rely on resolutions of the Belgian Parliament. Let me tell you that you have misread these resolutions. I am familiar with the latter because they are resolutions of which I am one of the authors. I am thinking in particular of the spring 2014 resolution based on a 2010 resolution that I was already at the origin and related to Christians in the East. Indeed, I have been interested in this tragedy for many years. These resolutions aim to protect them mainly on the spot and, in no case, to organize operations such as those you originally did. The most recent resolution, that of November, is about resettlement. They are, therefore, people who have already left Syria. It is also intended to help them resettle permanently in their own country. I therefore denounce the fact that parliamentary texts are being used today and that they are being deduced from their meaning and scope in the context of a policy that does not meet the objectives pursued at all. On the other hand, you say that there was no other choice and you describe a situation in which Christians were at all times the most vulnerable populations. That's not true. Christians were mainly subjected to specific harassment and even systematic attacks in 2014. I am thinking here of the attack on Mosul on June 6, 2014, the attack – I met people who were fleeing – in August 2014 in the Nineveh plain and the attack that took place on the Kabour plain in February 2015. The former director of the Department of Foreign Affairs that we have heard and you yourself have often cited the name Qaraqosh. In error, you said it was Al-Nosra who led the battle against Qaraqosh. For those who do not know, Qaraqosh is the largest Christian city in northern Iraq. It was a martyr city that was almost completely destroyed in August 2014 and it was indeed the Islamic State that led this fight with 3,000 men at the time. Because this name has often been mentioned by you, by this former senior official and by your group, I mean here that none of the Christians in Qaraqosh was helped by Belgium. It's a town that's been razed. It's a martyr city. In fact, we can see this in the figures that are published, especially those given to us by Myria. While we were hosting 1,500 Syrians in 2018, there were only 58 Iraqis in the same year. While, for Syria, it was essentially through your discretion, that is, without the intervention of the Foreign Office and without criteria in 91% of cases, as far as Iraq is concerned, only one person obtained a visa on a discretionary basis. All the other people got it through the Foreign Office. It is indeed very curious to see that most of the visas that you have granted discretionaryly concern Syria and not Iraq at all, whereas these Christian communities have mostly been harassed on the side of Mosul, the Nineveh plain and Qaraqosh. These have not been helped at all. They were harassed in 2014. However, in 2014, the granting of humanitarian visas by Belgium only affects 200 people, while in 2018 it concerns ten times more. When we look at the 2018 figures, it is mainly in June, July, August and September that visas are issued massively. These months are curiously the months of the communal election campaign in Belgium, the month of September 2018 constituting the absolute peak of visa issuance for Syrians: 256 visas issued on the eve of the 2018 communal elections! Therefore, when we talk about clientelism, you see that we can rely on very challenging figures because, at that time, in September 2018, the situation is particularly calm in northern Syria. I can also remind you, Mr Secretary of State, because you certainly know that most of the people exfiled from Syria were from a village called Derik. I went there. He was never attacked either by the Islamic State or by Al-Nosra or anyone. Contrary to your remarks, he is under the protection of Christian and Kurdish militias and enjoys effective organized protection. It is the Syriac Military Council, called the Suryoyo on the spot, which organizes the protection of this community. The latter was by no means the most vulnerable at that time. The legitimate question therefore arises again as to why these people were chosen. The answer given to me is that it is a population that still has some capacity to contribute. Indeed, she lived badly; indeed, it was war and she was subjected to rationing. But she still had a contributory capacity and that's why your collaborator chose these people and not people elsewhere. I would also like to stress here that while you say that in the refugee camps in Lebanon there were no Christians, you forget to say that there were some in Lebanon, hosted by Lebanese parishes, as far as possible by the local population and living in situations of extreme distress. They applied for visas at our diplomatic post. But very few of them, or even none of those I have been alerted to, have obtained a visa from your office and even from the Office of Foreigners. Mr Secretary of State, how many applications for humanitarian visas have been submitted to our diplomatic post in Lebanon, whether by Christians or other minorities or even by other people fleeing the war, and how many have they received a humanitarian visa? I note that you take few notes but these are specific questions that I ask you. In addition, our resolution in Parliament also referred to vulnerable individuals, groups and minorities. Last week, we had a hearing with Simon Najim, representing the Eastern Christian Support Committee (CSCO), who told us that the situation of the Yezidis was even worse than that of Christians, that Christians had been harassed and that, in some cases, war crimes could be referred to. But in the case of the Yezidis, genocide could be said because the Islamic State wanted to destroy them systematically. How many Yezidis did we welcome in Belgium? How many Yezidis were granted humanitarian visas? It was a population that was undergoing genocide. Your goal was a rescue operation. What have you done in this context for this population? I would like to go back to what you have recently said about this famous intermediary. As others have said here, notably Mr Dewael, the central problem is to determine why you have, massively, derogated from the screening of the Foreign Office, for those who have been granted a humanitarian visa in Syria. Myria's figures report that in 2018, all Afghans went through the screening of the Foreign Office, as well as 80% of Somalis and 99% of Iraqis. Only 9% of Syrians were. Everything else has benefited from your discretion, your arbitrary power. As by chance, most of these people were accommodated mainly in Flanders - Malines, Alost, etc. The issue is all the more important and serious because you have derogated from principles, methodologies, ways of doing things that have so far, in most cases, helped the most vulnerable people first. You say you were vaguely informed, starting in October, that there might be a problem with Melikan Kucam. However, when we go to Facebook, as early as mid-September, we see that this gentleman has a strange behavior, similar to that of a villain. When one sees a person handing out Belgian passports on the sidewalks of Beirut, one wonders whether this behaviour is appropriate and responsible for a person presented to the Belgian Embassy as one of your close collaborators. That's the message they get on the spot. In any case, such behaviour would have alerted me immediately, on the part of a collaborator who presents himself as close to the N-VA. Dozens of photos are visible on his Facebook page with members of the N-VA, including you, Mr. De Wever, Mr. Jambon, he seems to be the greatest friend of all these people. We do see that he has this kind of behavior. However, according to my information, earlier warnings have been given. It seems that Mr. Van Overmeire has already had an alert during the summer, July or August. It seems that there was a contact at that time between Mr. Van Overmeire and Mr. Melikan Kucam to find out what was going on. I'd like you to tell us exactly what you know about the alerts sent to you. How, by whom, in what form were they given? What exactly was said? I would have preferred that we have a parliamentary committee of inquiry because you tell us what you want, but you also hide what you want from us, and that would not have been the case in a parliamentary committee of inquiry. For the other alerts that we have heard about, whether to you or to other N-VA relatives, I would like to know exactly what is happening and how they were given. Personally, in October, I received a message from the Syriac community: "They systematically bring Syriacs from Syria to Belgium, and that is not good for us, the Syriacs." The Syrians are one of the Christian communities in the East. What they denounce at that time is not the traffic with these thousands of euros that are paid, but the emptying of the East. It is the Syrians themselves who denounce it. "Do you not know how to do something about it? I think behind all this is Theo Francken?" This is a message that was sent to me at the beginning of October. Since then, and before that, I have never ceased to be able to give priority to the protection of Christians there, on the spot. That was the priority, that was what they were asking for. Then there was this warning, always by Christians... You say you went to the help of Christians. But they denounce the way in which you proceed, that some cities like Derik or Qamichli are emptied from their last Christian communities, because the number of Christians in the East has been divided by three or four in recent years. And that is the tragedy, that is what must be avoided at all costs! We must avoid the fact that there is an Orient without Christians. They're denouncing your policy. They specifically name you. A few days later, they sent a letter in English to European officials. I would like to know when you were informed of this letter from The European Syriac Union, in which they say that six people in Belgium organise such trafficking for amounts of between EUR 3 000 and EUR 14 000. Six people are at the heart of this case with a member of the Belgian Parliament, they say. I've been checking in in the meantime. In fact, you're the one they call you in this mail: "Which we couldn't name." Since when have you been aware of an alert from the Syriac European community - I want to be precise about that - which is both concerned that the East is being emptied of its Christians and that, in the case of people in distress, they are being made to pay very dearly the will to come here to Belgium for those who can do so? I would also like to go back to the fact that you seem to have been informed. I think there is a political responsibility, but, as others have said, you should have denounced these facts rather than saying: "Add yourself to the police!" You know section 29 of the Code of Criminal Investigation. This is a possible criminal responsibility. Do you not consider that there is both political responsibility and, no doubt, criminal responsibility because, being informed of the facts, which is more important for close collaborators, you did not consider it necessary to report these facts to the judicial authorities? In addition, Lies Verlinden is one of your close collaborators. Her name appeared several times and is seen on Melikan Kucam's Facebook pages. She's a great friend. They go to parties together, etc. All these kinds of things you can see on Facebook. Lies Verlinden sent an e-mail to our Belgian consulate who told us that this was an amazing and unusual step. That's the term used. It's quite exceptional. How can you justify an email sent to our diplomatic post that puts him in a state of embarrassment since he is thus involved against his will? It can be understood that they are being instructed by a ministerial cabinet and are following this instruction. But how do you explain it and how do you justify it, whereas usually the instructions come from the Office of Foreigners that, for this person, you instructed our embassy to receive it as one of your collaborators? This approach on your part seems completely unacceptable to me. You said we need to think about a more transparent system. I would like to tell you how completely different the system you used, like the day and night, is from the system that was used by Sant'Egidio. It is not necessary to think much to see that their system is both extremely rigorous, transparent and that it actually helps vulnerable people. Some 15 criteria were used by Sant'Egidio. They are completely absent in the channels organized around your firm. Jan De Volder, the head of Sant'Egidio, had a clear mandate of his organisation. The organization itself had a clear mandate for the worships recognized in Belgium. This official has contacted several members of several political families in your government. This was not a partisan approach. He never went through a private intermediary. The people who were selected were already refugees. That is what our resolution in the Federal Parliament was about, I would remind you. They have all requested and obtained international protection in Belgium. Sant'Egidio called on local partners, who were known for their professionalism. They worked with professional organizations on the ground - UNHCR, UNICEF, UNRWA, IOM. Here I want to denounce again this lie which is repeated by you and by the members of the N-VA. There were, of course, humanitarian organizations there. When I went to Derik, no less than 30 NGOs were officially registered by the local authorities. International organizations were in place. It is totally wrong to claim that there was no possibility of contact and humanitarian organization on the spot. The people who were selected by Sant'Egidio were selected on clear criteria. They were vulnerable people. The European Union Directive has been taken into account. These included minors or persons with disabilities, the elderly or pregnant women, and victims of human trafficking. They were Christian or Muslim, Arab or Kurdish people, only selected on the basis of vulnerability criteria. Sant'Egidio told us, and I stressed this very much, that he did not want to contribute to the departure of Christians from the Middle East without the agreement of the local communities. You often take the example of Aleppo, stating that this was a very remarkable operation. You forget to say that at some point, as part of a humanitarian visa application, you yourself claimed that the people concerned (i.e. a Muslim and an Orthodox person) could live a normal life in Aleppo. What I know about Aleppo is that all people were vulnerable, because the bombings took place without any discrimination. The population was fleeing bombings that were carried out mainly by Russian aircraft or by Bashar al-Assad helicopters, and that affected all populations in Aleppo. So this was not a Christian problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u31	Mr Dallemagne, could you also ask questions, please?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u32	I think it is important for the Secretary of State to hear me, because he obviously has incorrect information. When he tells us that, compared to Qaraqosh, he went to meet the people who had been bombed, in this village that was razed by the Islamic State...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u33	The longer you talk, the shorter I have to answer. We've got an hour and 15 minutes left, but it's okay for me. Keep talking.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u34	Well, you'll come back, dear colleague!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u35	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u36	Another important point in the methodology followed by Sant'Egidio is that no fees were charged to these people. A fortiori, they were not swindled. Important work has been done for their integration here and there has been no clientelism towards them. In conclusion, I deeply regret that you have instrumentalized a real tragedy, that of the Christians of the East, for political gain for your career, for that of the N-VA. You were involved in a trafficking in human beings in which one of your close collaborators swindled people who were in distress. You denounced some parties to love migrants because it was their electorate. You've done much worse than that! One of your close collaborators selected people because they could pay exorbitant sums to be welcomed to Belgium. This was done to the detriment of other people who were more vulnerable, who were crying for help, who were asking for welcome from Belgium and who never received it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u37	All the groups that normally sit in the Conference of Presidents have spoken. There are other groups here. I shall therefore also give the floor to the other groups. However, since we are running out of time, I would ask that speaking time be limited.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u38	Mr President, (...).
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u39	I know that. "Almost everyone," has been said. I'll let you have the right to speak. I am merely pointing out to Mr Dallemagne a moment ago. There will be a draft law later on. If Mr Francken takes the liberty of staying here, that's fine. Maybe he has other plans, though. I don't know. Mrs Pas, I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u40	Mr Francken, you are defending your policy 100%. In fact, you have often responded to criticism of your policy on humanitarian visas in the last month. However, I really wonder what would have been your reaction from the opposition in a similar policy of other ministers. Imagine if you didn't have the competence for Asylum and Migration, but Mrs Onkelinx would have had that power in the past legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u41	Mr President, Mrs Pas, she would not save Christians.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u42	Mr President, may I speak? I've only said two more sentences. How would you have reacted, should she have had that discretion and should she submit the same figures as you, in particular a tenfold increase in humanitarian visas? Imagine that it would base itself on lists offered by PS municipal council members, that it would not want to give any transparency about these intermediaries or about the procedure in Parliament and that, on sale, another scandal would arise about alleged abuse by one of those PS intermediaries. You will understand that I do not believe that in those circumstances you would defend such a similar humanitarian visa policy at 100%. The numbers are what they are. You have increased the number of humanitarian visas, compared to your predecessor, in recent years. You have turned it into a common channel rather than an exception procedure, as it was intended. Mr Dewael rightly referred to it as a new channel created. For us, humanitarian visas must once again become, as intended, an exception. No one here in the Chamber will question the need to help vulnerable people. However, I can refer to last week's hearing when we heard the chairman of the CSCO vzw, Simon Najm. This non-profit organisation provides assistance in the first instance and also believes that aid for Syrian Christians should be provided as close as possible in its own region. I can agree with Mrs Smeyers that we should not, above all, make the mistake of defining criteria. They will ensure that this will become enforceable and that humanitarian visas will become a right instead of a favour. However, Mr Francken, despite the fact that you have been asked for transparency in this house several times, you did not want to publish the list of sixteen intermediaries you have worked with until a week after the outbreak of the scandal in Mechelen. Not exactly a model of information flow and transparency. The judicial investigation will show whether your party colleague Kucam abused vulnerable people and passed on lists of names to your cabinet for a fee. If that is true, you have full political responsibility for it. You have indicated those intermediaries, so you bear the responsibility for allowing a system whereby visas were sold to the highest bidder. As Mr De Coninck rightly pointed out, it is not clear today whether they have gone to vulnerable people or not. The essence of today is two elements. Firstly, there is the non-transparent system of intermediaries that you have set up. Intermediaries must by definition be independent and impartial. Party mates do not meet those criteria at all. There should have been transparency and control. I will certainly not repeat all the questions already asked, but it is important to know how the screening by the cabinet was done correctly. I understand that it may not be possible to completely rule out corruption and abuse, but I find it strange that the former Secretary of State is not yet convinced that the opaque and arbitrary method of intermediaries was clearly not the right method. Do you not also think that this is not so much a discretionary approach, but rather an arbitrary one? Will you continue to defend the methods of intermediaries to this day? Do you think it is logical that there should be parallel proceedings in the Foreign Affairs Office with regard to that same discretionary power? Secondly, you have already done so, and you have repeated it twice today, saying that you have heard rumors about the sale of humanitarian visas, vaguely, in October and again in December. What's vague? Doesn't it make sense that in the event of vague rumors, you at least confront the middleman himself? The key question for me remains why no complaint has been filed at the courthouse. I find it incomprehensible that there was no sharper action. I promised conciseness, Mr President, I'm going to stick to this for the time being.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u43	Mrs Pas, I am very grateful for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u44	Mr President, I am not going to go into the field of judicial investigation. It is up to the courts to judge whether Mr. Franken has criminal responsibility in this case. On the other hand, as far as his political responsibility is concerned, it seems obvious to me in this case, which is called Visagate, a political responsibility which would lead to a resignation if the N-VA ministers had not already resigned before. It is true that rescue operations are based on a discretionary decision by the former Secretary of State and also on his responsibility for establishing an unprecedented system with agents of his party as trusted persons. It is true that in Rwanda there had already been a list system, as well as in Haiti. In this case, what is new here is the use of agents of one's own party. The fact that Mr Franken used agents of his party makes it possible to speak clearly of clientelism and nepotism. A gang was called the "Y-band," the name of Mr. Kucam's family-in-law. A whole part of his family and his family are worried by the police today. It seems to me that today the N-VA should change the meaning of its acronym into the "New Voids of the Asylum" that is the NVA. That is the situation we are in today. You trusted these people and, apparently, there were very few controls at your firm level. You yourself have been very reluctant to disclose information to parliamentarians. Mr Secretary of State, why did you continue to use this procedure with lists of people after 2015 since, after that date, the IS was evicted from the city of Aleppo and yet the number of humanitarian visas granted continued to increase? You have always said that no other institution was present on Aleppo's soil to select the most vulnerable people. As you said earlier, the UNHCR report (which we received) did not reflect its presence on the ground. Did you ask UNHCR at the time if he was on the ground? It's one of the ways to know it. But, apparently, you had to misread this report as I read on page 3: "In 2015, UNHCR had 398 staff deployed in six offices in Damascus, Aleppo, Tartous, Qamichli, Homs and Sueida." So what you said earlier is wrong, Mr. Franken. I would like to hear from you in this regard, and I note that in the same UNHCR document, page 7 refers to "a close collaboration between UNHCR and a number of countries, including Germany, Austria and France, which have implemented humanitarian admission programmes for Syrian refugees". What is feasible for other countries would not be feasible for Belgium? Under Theo Francken, at least, you had to go through these lists via his "boyfriends"! As for your attack on NGOs, Mr. Franken, it seems quite surreal. As in the history of straw and beam, you allow yourself to attack NGOs that have - I think I can say - internal control systems, even though some organizations have momentarily experienced some problems in this regard. I do not believe that internal controls exist within the "Y-band" as is the case in NGOs. I believe that you are using methods that contradict the ethics that should be respected by your party and yourself. Another question relates to the criteria by which you chose contact persons, such as Mr. Kucam, among others. What procedures did they allow you to control these people? Moreover, as Myria pointed out, the humanitarian visas you have granted appear to have also been used in cases of family reunification. However, you yourself had made the procedure for family reunification more stringent. Have the lists for rescue operations thus been used to circumvent this lengthy and costly procedure, arduous and uncertain for the members of the families concerned? Have you imposed a strict general rule and yourself allowed exceptions, by diverting the procedure in question? Did your office host a task force to conduct more in-depth analyses of the names on the lists of humanitarian visas submitted to you? Because this is, as has been said, a discretionary jurisdiction that does not justify arbitrariness. By November 2016, Myria had already found a lack of information and very opaque procedures. Why did you persevere in this opacity and refuse to provide information to Parliament? Save us the alibi too easy that you mentioned earlier, namely that it was about saving lives! No one has ever asked you to disclose to Parliament certain personal details that would have identified the individuals involved. It is rather paradoxical to see the Twitter king complain about potential leaks. You said that all the visas you issued were issued on the basis of Article 9. Do you confirm that it is on the basis of Article 9 and not Article 25 of the European Visa Code? How can we not address the issue of these rumours about the payments that would have taken place? All you told us in your presentation was that it happened in October and December. That is all we have learned when it comes to the substance of the case. I'd like to know more. Who warned you, and what exactly? How do you justify that you only advised to go to the police without checking whether it had been done and, above all, without respecting your legal obligation to report the facts yourself if you are aware of it? Why did you not comply with this basic legal obligation? You said about these people of contact, of trust, that the only criterion for being a "man of trust" was not to be a member of your party, but to be a key person in the religious community, here Syrian Christians. So why have you chosen people like Karim Van Overmeire, who do not agree with my opinion but who is a member of your party, after having been included in other political groups?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u45	Mr President, I will be brief because several of my colleagues have already spoken and I would not like to give Mr Franken the pretext for a too long sitting so that he will not answer some of the questions asked. What did we not hear for months, on the part of the majority, that the policy of humanitarian visas was indeed proof that a human policy was being carried out? This cleared up cooperation with the Sudanese regime, home visits,... In short, this is a famous lesson of humility that all parties of the majority receive. Mr. Franken had the strap on his neck because there was no control procedure within the government or the majority. It was total freedom, freedom that was misused. I would like to focus on identifying people of contact or trust. We have the right, as a Parliament, to have a list of all those who have intervened with your cabinet, whether they have been designated by a procedure that is not known or that they have volunteered spontaneously, and who have been regular interlocutors with your cabinet to receive applications for humanitarian visas. We wish to have this list. Otherwise, we will get it through other channels, but it seems to me that this is the most crucial point. I would like to state that today, on the basis of the answers that we have not obtained or, in any case, on the basis of the vagueness that you have deliberately shown, it can be said that there exists - irrespective of whether there are financial aspects - a real channel organised from your office, with relay persons, with the aim of issuing arbitrary humanitarian visas to certain recipients on the basis of criteria that are fully appreciated. That is the point that can be made today. In fact, there was no strictly political or administrative course of action in the management of these files. I wonder, moreover, whether the persons of contact or trust have been the subject of screening by the Sûreté de l'Etat, of prior notice to their appointment by the Office of Foreigners or of any bodies which have competence to ascertain the quality of the persons involved in this type of procedure, since you have entrusted them with disproportionate tasks in relation to your political responsibility. This is an essential issue, and I am not sure that justice does not conduct further investigations into this matter. This is undoubtedly the crux of the problem: proof of shortcomings on the part of your firm and your authority in this matter. The core of the problem is the particular role that you have assigned to a number of people (one of whom is now more cited than others) in how to select beneficiaries of humanitarian visas. It is on this issue that you will have to explain yourself for a long time to come.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u46	Mr Francken, thank you in turn for coming to this committee meeting. I have just noticed a certain annoyance with you a few times, and I can start my speech positively by telling you that I share your annoyance. After all, you gave an introductory speech, in which you answered a number of questions, but then you received the same questions from Members present. For example, you mentioned what was going on with Mr Kucam in July 2018 and you also said why you only called on the Commissioner-General once, but you will get those questions again. Actually, I'm sorry about that. Some Members remind me of this, too. I share the annoyance of the former Secretary of State for Social Affairs of old alarm clocks with a spring. That feather had to be turned up to let the alarm clock go down. At any time, you thought that alarm clock would stop, but it just kept walking. Mr Francken, I will keep it shorter and I will not ask you any questions that you have already answered. I want to distinguish between two things that are often confused in your communication and your party's communication. A first point concerns the question of who entered our country with a humanitarian visa. There are problems in this area, and I will return to them in a moment. A second point concerns the question of what happens once these people are in our country. There is a great deal of communication on this too, but as Secretary of State, you have had nothing to do with it, as it falls within the competence of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless. The Commissioner-General, Mr Van den Bulck, has said here that he has dealt with all the dossiers in the same way. The opposite would be strong. In this respect, therefore, the dossier has been properly processed. However, you cannot put that feather on your hat, because it is a feather on Mr Van den Bulck's hat. As Secretary of State, you had nothing to do with that. I would also like to say a few things about communication, about talk being sent out into the world. Indeed, some of the cases communicated do not seem to be correct. For example, it is not true that everyone who has come to our country with a humanitarian visa has applied for asylum. You have claimed that you saved people from the claws of IS, but that is not true for Beirut, for example. It is also not correct that they are all Syrian Christians, because a third of the people who came to our country via Sant' Egidio are Muslims, as was stated here. There is therefore a difference between reality and the talk of the spokesmen who are paid to invent such talk. What bothers me is that you took out your administration, namely the Foreign Office. Mr Roosemont stated here that the DVZ only received a list of the cabinet, on which a security screening was carried out, without advice. Why didn't you accept the DVZ's advice? That could have prevented a number of problems. Instead, you have given confidence to intermediaries, apparently also to a contact person in your cabinet. Based on what I get from the media, this would be one person. Well, Mr Francken, it's good to give confidence, but checking and double-checking is much better. That last one didn't happen here. That's your full responsibility. I come now to the first part, in particular the question of who enters the country. There is again a great deal of communication about Mr Geeyn, about Mr De Volder, but that is not the problem. I'm sure there won't be a problem with those groups. The problem lies with Mr Kucam. This is not about vulnerability or the situation in Aleppo and the like. Those things aren't contested by anyone here. This is really about the intermediary, especially Mr Melikan Kucam. I have a number of specific questions about this. I note that lists have been drawn up and that they have been drawn up in several ways. With Sant' Egidio you have concluded a declaration of intent which is actually a very precise document. So the instrument is there. Why didn't you use that for the other intermediaries? There was a document you could use somewhere else. I find that incomprehensible. You've worked with these intermediaries. There is now some discussion about the UNHCR, as you have also mentioned. You just told me you weren't aware. Anyway, who was the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration? Of course you were. If anyone had to know, it was you. But we know that you also discovered the Marrakesh Pact very late. The persons who came to Belgium via the humanitarian visas were screened by the State Security at the request of DVZ. Why didn't you have these intermediaries screened? You also mentioned this a moment ago. That's weird. Why, for example, did you not have Mr Kucam screened? If it's because he's an N-VA politician, it's very naive. You will also have seen in the media last night and this morning that the matter is getting worse in the meantime. Mr. Kucam appears in pictures with the Assyrian mob, with Mr. Sahin Y. These pictures speak volumes, of course, which is why I am not so sure that, given what we are hearing today, if Mr Kucam had been effectively screened, nothing would have come out of them, as you say. I think you've been negligent there. You admit that, too, because you say that if you did it today, you would actually have those people screened. I would like to remind you of the words of your chairman in the run-up to the municipal elections. He said all parties were infiltrated by crime gangs, but certainly not the N-VA. That sounds a bit grotesque today, especially now that pictures appear on hln.be by Mr. De Wever with that Sahin Y. That is quite different from Minister Peeters, who accidentally entered the wrong fish shop on the Turnhoutsebaan. A picture with Mr. Sahin Y. is another pair of sleeves. Antwerp is starting to look a bit like Gotham City: people don't know who the good guys and who the bad guys are anymore. You have also stated in the media that the persons who entered with a humanitarian visa were not dependent on Fedasil. I have heard from a good source that this would be the case for some people, and I know the number of people who are not. Can you explain this or is it just the medical costs that Fedasil would bear in the declaration of intent with Sant'Egidio? It may also be that you do not have the information, because you are no longer Secretary of State, for which I understand, but my question is whether you have any information on it. You have chosen zero transparency in this file for years. It was a discretionary power of Mr Francken and of him alone, but now it turns out that it was an arbitrary power, with at least one shadowy intermediary and also a number of other party members. However, this cannot be a criterion. If they are your party mates, one thing is certain, namely that they cannot be impartial and independent and do not meet the minimum criteria. I would also like to know, Mr President-in-Office, whether you knew anything about the mail of 14 September from your cabinet, Mr Francken. Mr President, Ambassador Parmentier promised us that he would send us that e-mail via Mr Reynders. In the meantime, I haven't seen that e-mail. I'm a little sorry about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u47	I don't think he promised that, Mr. Vuye.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u48	He promised to put the question to Mr Reynders.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u49	So far we haven't received that e-mail.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u50	Mr President, I am not throwing you a flower or a flower pot, but it would be good if you, as President, were to contact Mr Reynders to ask if we could get that mail. Mr Francken, an answer to parliamentary questions was apparently difficult, even if they were asked, but now you have seen the light. Today you come to the Chamber with recommendations. That's pretty strong. You couldn't have done that before. Secretary of State Francken could not answer politically, but MP Francken can. That is what is turning the Constitution upside down, but that is what is happening here, I admit. In your recommendations, I haven't heard one case. Humanitarian visas cannot be used to circumvent the intertwined rules on family reunification. You yourself made an important contribution to this in 2011. It is not a question of approving criteria here in Parliament and then not applying them by means of a detour, with humanitarian visas. The humanitarian operations went somewhere hidden. No one knew anything about it, neither did the government partners. They also have a responsibility, because they haven't asked much either. The only thing that was visible was the communication of the Secretary of State, mainly around Catholic high days. Then several tweets were sent and messages posted on Facebook about the rescue of Syrian Christians. That was clearly also a PR event or a PR operation for the Secretary of State. I will conclude with two more points on humanitarian visas. Several colleagues have said that it is not the intention to achieve a subjective right. That is obvious to my group, but it is possible to objectify a discretionary power, while at the same time remaining a discretionary power. How can one objectify it? By asking for an opinion from the DVZ, by drawing up guidelines or by accountability in the Chamber. That is the difference between a discretionary power and an arbitrary power, and that is the difference between the way one makes decisions in a democracy and the way the Roman emperors used to make decisions. It is therefore possible to exercise discretionary powers in an objective manner. Another point that has not been very much addressed here, but which I do think is crucial, is that there are two procedures for similar situations of people in need. The first procedure is individual applications to an embassy, where the chances of obtaining a visa are limited and where the decision-making authority is the DVZ, as an agent of the Secretary of State. For similar situations there is a second procedure, namely the Francken procedure, where it is sufficient to be on a list of intermediaries and where the success rate is 100%. The fact that there are two procedures for a similar and even the same situation, with two different decision-making bodies and two different chances of success, cannot be achieved in a democracy. You always defend your policy for 100%. I believe that this policy can be thoroughly reviewed. It is not so obvious that, in addition to this one procedure, the DVD procedure, a second procedure is being introduced and that this second procedure not only deals with exceptional cases, but also establishes humanitarian corridors. That is not as obvious as many colleagues here make it seem. Those two procedures collide, that's a confrontation, that's day and night. This cannot be done for people who are in a similar situation. I'd like to get your vision on that. What do you think of the fact that there are two different procedures, with different chances of success and different decision-making bodies? I don't think that's normal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u51	Mr Franken, thank you for your interventions. The day you ceased to be Secretary of State, I became a Member of Parliament. I would have liked to have been able to talk to you about matters of substance and not to mobilise the whole of a parliament and our citizens and our media for fraud stories, linked to the mismanagement of your asylum policy. Anyway, we're here. The aim of the Greens is to understand how such trafficking has occurred on the back of vulnerable people. It is to clearly identify the facts and your political responsibility, as well as, where appropriate, that of the government. I personally find it difficult to believe that for four years the government has never dealt with this issue of humanitarian visas. In the end, it will be a matter of finding solutions and taking legislative measures so that this never happens again, but we are not there yet. On the basis of facts and responsibilities, there is one thing we agree with, Mr Franken, that is the seriousness of the facts. Reception in our country should not be linked to the size of a portfolio. As far as the facts and information you have added to those we have already obtained through previous hearings are concerned, I still have a few questions like all my colleagues. Since most of them have already been laid down, I will be brief in order to be able to hear you. Why did you work with intermediaries? For what reasons did you rule out the United Nations, which, contrary to what you say, was on the ground? Why not work with NGOs that at least have internal control procedures, expertise, people in the field and prefer to choose an intermediary who comes to your firm or better without any screening? Is it hard to hear and believe for all our citizens? How did you choose these intermediaries? For example, have Muslim intermediaries come to your office with lists of people to protect? What did you do with this request? I observe in terms of the distribution of the number of visas issued that 32 of them left via Francophone intermediaries out of 1,501. Why are the intermediaries with whom you have worked mainly Dutch-speaking? You have made an honourable fine with regard to screening by proposing that in the future it is possible to screen a former UCL president for political coverage. Beyond that, Mr. Franken, it is a matter of ensuring that these people are able to do an intermediary job with impartiality and probity. That's what you could have put in place. With regard to the widely mentioned VIP approach, it seems quite clear that with these two procedures - one passing through an embassy through an administration that works accurately and precisely and does not always give access to our country, the other concerning a list targeted by your firm and which gives 90% chance of being welcomed - there are double standards. As for the rumors, you mentioned hearing them. I learned earlier in your presentation that a complaint had been filed with the police in December. Did you react to that? If not, why? Have you never considered it appropriate to discuss with Mr Kucam the rumours brought to your knowledge? He is a member of your party and you have met him frequently. You said you didn't have enough evidence and they were too blurry. Could you please specify what insufficient evidence this was? You say you talked about these rumors with your collaborator. Why didn't you take advantage of this opportunity to critically review the humanitarian visa system you had put in place? As far as the procedures are concerned, I am well aware of the nine steps you have outlined. The firm is associated with it every time. It is all the more surprising to see the slippages that have taken place. I'll go back to step eight. As I understand it, the refugee candidate comes to the embassy, with all the documents to obtain a humanitarian visa, and the visa is issued to him on the same day. The consul of Beirut, who was interviewed last week, said that once the documents were collected by the embassy, an invitation to pick up their humanitarian visa was sent to the refugee candidates. He informed us that he was sending you these invitations to the cabinet and that you were sending them to the refugee candidates in Syria. Do you confirm your first version or do you confirm the consul's version? If it was the cabinet that was in charge of sending these invitations to Syria, how did you proceed in practice? I will conclude with a more general question about your policy. In 2015, you brought together the administration, CGRA, NGOs to launch a new policy for the issuance of humanitarian visas. Has there been any follow-up, feedback, rediscussion with the Office of Foreigners in particular or the CGRA about this humanitarian visa policy that you have re-launched? If not, why not? Has this item ever been put on the government's agenda and mentioned explicitly? In conclusion, Mr. Francken, Visagate is not an accident of course but the result of mismanagement where you have ruled out any organization that has a little expertise here or in the field. You have preferred them N-VA friends acting alone, without screening or accompaniment. At the very least, that seems irresponsible to me. Your policy has gone wrong!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u52	I suspect that everyone who wished to take the floor has spoken. Mr Francken, you have had a lot of questions. We will see which questions you can answer, as stated in the note from the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u53	Mr President, do we stop at 2:00 p.m.? Is another bill being dealt with?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u54	At 2:00 p.m., Minister De Crem will be here to discuss a bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u55	Mr President, I will try to provide some additional answers. Four hundred questions have been asked. So it's gonna be hard. Nevertheless, I will give a number of additional answers to the main points. I personally do not think it is very respectful of me not to listen to my speech and then to ask the same questions that I answered explicitly and which I even mentioned nominatingly during my speech, so as to say again that this is not true. I personally find that regrettable. I have been there for four and a half years, not only in our committee, where people were almost always too late. In my capacity as Secretary of State, I also gave presentations in which everyone was working on his electronics. Questions will then be read out, which have all been answered. [[Laughter.]] That attitude can be frustrating. I'm almost done, though. It's the last time. So I will try to answer what I have not yet answered. Please do not allow me to answer the questions I have already answered. I'm sure that's permissive, I hope. There are still a number of uncertainties. It's said that I should have turned on the DVZ and had a screening done. I can make a point about that. As of spring 2018, we asked the DVZ to check whether the names that had been passed on were not already known elsewhere, for example through the ordinary procedure for applying for humanitarian visas at an embassy or something. We asked you to check this because we had received signals that there were double requests. They also asked if the DVZ knew any names. This has indeed been done since the beginning of 2018. Could that have happened from the start? Yes, it could have been, no matter what I said here, it is one of the recommendations. For the rest, it is also suggested that I should have had the CGVS give an opinion first. However, I do not see how that is possible. We have involved the CGVS in the first group. If we had asked to draw up a file after consultation with the administration on how this could be organised. Everyone had to make chips of that group in Aleppo but they were so incomplete, the information was so flawed that Dirk Van den Bulck's services said they couldn't do anything with it. So they'd give them asylum interviews if they were here. That is not what people were looking for. That's why we didn't do that again, that just didn't work. In that sense I don't really see how one could do that differently, not even with the DVZ. One has to take into account the fact that there were two routes. I'm motivating that. I still support that. That's not the same situation. It is a choice to work with a humanitarian corridor from Syria. This is a different story than the story in which a humanitarian asylum application 9a is submitted to an embassy or a consulate. That happens a few hundred times a year and we also issue visas for this. It's just not the same thing. This was a specific operation in 2015, specifically at the request of that group around Mark Geeyn, from Syria. So we didn't have that opportunity. Is that a parallel article 9 treatment? Yes. That is also a separate situation. I do not see how this can be organised differently. Mr Roosemont replied literally here in the hearing, asking whether he saw any other way of setting it up than the way in which it had happened today: 'No, I think that is how it should be done when the decision is taken to launch those rescue operations from Syria'. Then there's the whole story of UNHCR. People are asking if I got a signal. Those signals had to come to you because you were the Secretary of State. I just want to say that I don't think it is. I certainly don't read that advice like that either. To control chemical weapons there might have been a presence in Syria and perhaps here and there an auxiliary convoy. It's possible. For the organisation of resettlement, for the effective organisation of a humanitarian corridor from Syria itself, I do not think that was the case at that time. I will certainly also contact UNHCR to check that again. That is not what I read in the opinion either. Sorry, it doesn't say that literally. It says that they have set up a humanitarian corridor for Germany and a few other countries, but I do not think it is organised from Syria or the office in Aleppo where those people then did the interviews as they do in Lebanon, Jordan, Turkey and apparently I have heard from Iraq, but I did not know that. At that time, it wasn't. If it were, I'd love to know. That's when I was never called in. At UNCHR they knew perfectly well that we were using that corridor. People could have said something perfectly at the time. We held consultations at the end of 2014, early 2015. At the time it was about humanitarian visas, but it was not said: we can do that, just give it to us. That was never said. I've had my people check it out again in the last few days, but I don't know anything about that. I'm very curious to know if... not the control of chemical weapons, not the auxiliary convoys. No, organising migration requires a humanitarian corridor from Syria, set up by UNHCR, with interviews and checks and everything, in Syria, in Aleppo, in their office, to get a visa and then come here? I just don't believe that. However, if people here have information that can show in writing that this has happened for Austria or for which country, let them say. That seems very unlikely to me, but okay, put it on the table, then I'll see. Anyway, I certainly wasn't aware of that at the time. That's what I mean when I say I didn't know. I just don't think it was. In this sense, we must always make a distinction. It is said here: if you had a contract with Sant' Egidio and had everything on paper, that story would have been more aligned with Sant' Egidio. This was also possible because Sant' Egidio also relocated from Syria's neighbouring countries. Sant' Egidio operated with UNHCR from Lebanon, from Turkey, and not from Syria. In that sense, Sant' Egidio was an operation other than the Aleppo operation or the operation with those intermediaries. This is not the same way of working, because they worked with UNHCR from neighbouring countries. Those people from Sant' Egidio have worked in exactly the same way as the UNHCR resettlement programme. It went the same way. It also asks why these intermediaries were not screened and whether something had come out. Of course, I don't know. But we didn't. That's what I said. If I started it again now, I'd let you do it, if only to cover for me politically. At that time, my opinion was that it was not particularly useful to screen someone such as Mr Geeyn or the former rector of the UCL. However, if one decides to do it, one must do it for all intermediaries. We didn't do it in the first group, so we continued. Now I'd let everyone do it anyway, and we might as well have done it in the past. It was, of course, easy to say afterwards that we should have done so and that it was naive not to do so. That is true, and I have said it here as one of the recommendations. Maybe something would have come out, maybe not. We might even have come up with surprises. In any case, should anything have come out, we could have made it clear that that story would not go on like this. That didn't happen now. I understand that question, which is why I put it in my recommendations. What about Fedasil, the charge and control? We certainly made sure that there was passed on when the people arrived. Some of these people, for example the vast majority of the groups of Geleyn, but also of the groups of Sant'Egidio, have been received within their own community. They did not go to an asylum centre or LOI, they had their own shelter. In my own congregation, for example, a few people have been received through an initiative of the church. An asylum seeker is not obliged to stay in an asylum centre during the procedure; he may also stay in a private house. In Belgium there is a reception right, not a reception obligation. That is always foreseen and carried out in a correct way. Only a few people have slipped into the loopholes of the network who have not applied for asylum. I have also replied in detail to that. This is now apparent from the figures of De Standaard. That's remarkable, isn't it? It is in their own interest to apply for asylum. If they did not apply for asylum in Belgium, they would do so in another European country anyway. Then there would be a Eurodac hit and Belgium would be informed about the refugee's whereabouts, for example in Sweden. That's what we'd see. I don't think we're really seeing that right now. Mr Roosemont did not say anything about it if he was here, so I find that strange. Maybe it's people who haven't finally travelled? This will be a piece of the explanation. Maybe there are people who haven't applied for asylum yet? It can then be said that I have said that everyone has applied for asylum. I was aware of that. I wasn't told that people were passing massively through Eurodac. I didn't know that. I absolutely assumed that everyone who came here applied for asylum. An appointment was also provided for. I don't know why they didn't, but I think it makes sense that they did then, because it was 100% in their favor. Then I don't understand a damn thing. It's said they could get a humanitarian regularization. Why would they do that? International protection status is simply much stronger. Anyway. I find that very strange. Why should a 9a regularization be applied for? It would not, moreover, be granted because everyone would say that they should apply for asylum, since that was the intention but that they did not attend their meeting. That's not gonna pass. International protection is a stronger statute, in terms of international law, also in Belgian law. So that really doesn't make any sense. I assume that Mrs De Block will perhaps explain this more. Anyway, I've never heard such signals. I did not understand that some people would apparently not have applied for asylum. That was indeed checked. I did say in the recommendations that there should be a proper feedback, which may need to be better. If they don't show up, they're gonna have to send it out. If they don't get to the border, the Air Force must bring it to DVZ. If they do not show up for the asylum interview, it must also be passed on immediately. That transmission usually works, but it's not 100% conclusive. That is something that must certainly be made 100% final. That's what I said here. A lot of questions were asked. Apparently, there are asylum experts in the room. After all, I hear that it is about middle-class Syrians, about rich people, that they should not be protected. I've heard others say they were safe, that there were no problems. Two or three parties said that they came from that particular city and that it was safe there, that nothing was going on there. All I can say is I'm not an asylum expert. In Belgium, the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless evaluates this. Syrians are almost always recognised as refugees and therefore have the right to international protection and are therefore vulnerable. With regard to the criteria of vulnerability, I have also made it quite explicit in my explanatory statement that this was indeed done in a standardised way. The people who came were also vulnerable. It won't take long. So I don't know what the problem is there. The nine steps were applied by default. There too, I believe that this has been done in a very correct way. Some might say that this is not the case, but I think I have given transparency on how this went. Those were vulnerable. The fact that those who applied for asylum have also been recognised as refugees is the best proof that they were indeed vulnerable. How else can we prove that? It is obvious that the proof of the pudding is in the eating. If they are recognised as refugees, you can say that they are rich or that they come from a particular city, but I honestly do not think it is enough for you to take on some kind of asylum expertise in this way. I find that striking. About Mr. Kucam's person. In July, there was the story "" and this was reported about a woman who had traveled to Sweden." Of course, I didn't mean to. There was never any mention of visa payments in the cabinet. Despite what that lawyer claims, this didn't happen. I've had that thoroughly checked. We haven't found any of that, in any way. I can only say what I find back. You should also know that logistics is not the same as MPs or Secretary of State with more than 20 staff. It's not the same thing. I tried to check this out anyway. There's no record of that report. If that is the case, it must prove it, because I want to see it. That lawyer's got to come up with a piece of evidence that he reported this. I certainly didn't find any of that, nor did any of my ex-officers. Has he been to the cabinet? Yeah, he's been to the cabinet, like all the other intermediaries in the cabinet. Isn't that obvious? Otherwise, of course, we cannot organize it. That e-mail with the ambassador or the consul general. If I understood correctly... I didn't know about the e-mail then, just to be clear. Of course, I've checked this out now. The bottom line is that with some groups things were rather chaotic in Lebanon. They were asked to coordinate this for themselves so that this could be done properly there in Beirut. That's what happened. Then he was asked if he could get an appointment there, at Kucam's request, at the embassy. Then that question was asked from the cabinet. I assume the ambassador says this is unusual. Yeah, right. However, it did not happen on our question, the aim was actually to organise it in a better way. After all, the previous groups had been rather chaotic. I understand that this is the genesis of that e-mail and the question to the embassy. So I personally see no problem there, even though this was not common practice. I see absolutely no interference there. Then about the Konstantin Al Chammas. Where did they come from? They passed through Beirut, too. If you have any other information, I'd be happy to hear it. They also asked why the CGVS was not involved. Resettlement involves CGVS, they do resettlement missions to Lebanon and Turkey where they then participate in the interviews with the UNHCR and so on in advance to screen as much as possible. So we're sending employees from Fedasil over there. However, that was not possible in Syria. We weren't gonna send people from CGVS to Syria, that was just never an option. As I said, they only had 24 to 48 hours for Lebanon. That was just a transit visa they were given. Then they had to get on the plane and left very quickly. So that is not organized either. Putting the CGVS in Syria in a manner of speaking is not possible. One can send them to Lebanon where it is safe or bring them to Turkey. That's what we're doing with the resettlement missions. That is not possible in Syria, however. So that was never really an option. Then we tried with those chips. However, they did not provide sufficient information for the CGVS to carry out a thorough asylum check. So we did it this way. I believe there was no alternative at the time. Did Jezidi's come? There were no applications from Jezidi's, only at the end there were a number of individual applications from Jezidi's. But then everything was closed and they did not come. They also asked about the number of applications in Beirut. I gave you those numbers. I have also informed you of those contacts. As far as that letter from the European Syriac Union is concerned, that is what I have heard. I never received that letter, and I had it checked again, as far as it could, of course, because all the cabinet computers were returned. As far as I know, no one's ever seen that letter. I thoroughly checked who that letter was actually sent to and whether it was sent to people in my political formation, since in the latter case I suppose that letter would be forwarded to me. I also find it remarkable that you never gave me that letter. That would have been useful, though. Since you're saying you've been aware of that letter for a long time, why didn't you give me a copy? I understand that this is a letter stating that members of the European Syriac Union want to discuss the issue of humanitarian visas. Then why didn't you give me that letter or put an oral question on it when that letter reached you? I think that's weird. I certainly never got that letter. We have also checked the European e-mail database, because apparently that letter was sent to MEPs, but the European e-mail server is apparently emptied every few months. I have also asked several colleagues whether they received that letter, but no one will find it. I also asked through an intermediary when the letter was actually sent and who received the letter. I certainly wasn't informed of that letter. I find that strange and remarkable. It would have been good, of course, if I had received it; that always seems good to me. Now I come to the questions about the rumors. It's not about des informations, but it's about des rumeurs. I have already made that clear in my statement, and I have nothing else to add to it. This is also part of the judicial investigation, which I do not want to interfere with, because that would be unwise. So I would like to repeat it again, without adding anything to it. I've consulted with my lawyers on that. I am defending my policy 100% and I wish that the Justice Department brings out the bottom line. As I stated earlier, I heard a rumor twice through on........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The first time it was a very vague and rather unbelievable rumor in October, the second time in December. The humanitarian rescue operation for the Kucam Group had already been completed. But I never got to see or hear evidence myself. In both rumors, I've referred to the police, which I always do. In December, I was confirmed that a complaint had been made. In other words, it was no longer necessary to go to the police themselves. From Mechelian politics or police, nothing was ever reported to me or my administration. Abuseing people in need is the most unethical thing one can do. For the rest, I cannot and do not wish to explain anything further at this time in the interest of the investigation. So I can only repeat what I have already said; that is what I am going to do. Mr Dewael, you asked how those names were deleted. The lists that left for screening were the final lists. However, this did not mean that all persons also received a humanitarian visa. There were some cancellations from people who couldn't leave, didn't get into Beirut or withdrew. No individuals have been removed by the cabinet itself. There was no reason to.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u56	Mr Francken, thank you for mentioning my name, but the essential question preceded that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u57	I replied to the question on screening.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u58	No, it was about the coexistence of two systems in the exercise of one and the same discretionary power, one through the administration that you described and one through your cabinet. I don't think that's compatible. You do not answer that, but I think that is the essential question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u59	Mr Dewael, I started with the answer. I have just defended that there were two parallel systems based on Article 9 of the Foreign Law humanitarian visa, just because otherwise that humanitarian corridor could not have been organised from Syria. This is not comparable to the ordinary visa procedure applied for by a foreign office. You're saying I didn't answer. Mr Vuye, I say that I have replied. You cannot, of course, agree with that, I will find out later. However, you should not say that I did not reply if I did. As far as screening is concerned, that is what I said. I explained how that vulnerability screening went. Each application has always been checked under the following vulnerability criteria: Syrian nationality, extra vulnerability to families with children, single women, elderly people, persons with medical problems, family link with Belgium, very important for integration and social control, Christian... no Sant'Egidio criterion, not known to the VSSE or the OCAD. Later, a check was also carried out through the DVZ database to see if they were not already in another procedure. These vulnerability criteria were used to ensure the highest possible probability that a protection status would be granted by the CGVS. There was no VIP treatment. All these people are extremely vulnerable and treated in the same way, including Kucam's lists. I don't know where this came from, but it happened the same way.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u60	Mr President, we can kill the time until 2 p.m., but...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u61	We have very little time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u62	Of course, I'm trying to answer everyone's questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u63	Yes, of course, but that is the only question that really matters, Mr Francken.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u64	Questions were asked for four hours...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u65	Someone who writes a letter to Secretary of State Francken and passes through one of those intermediaries, has different possibilities and rights, has received a different treatment than someone who just writes a letter...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u66	Yeah, or you're not gonna get that humanitarian corridor organized, of course. Isn't that obvious?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u67	But, Mr Francken, you are not answering at the heart of the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u68	Mrs Lanjri, you are not speaking. You're trying to interrupt all the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u69	I give answers all the time, Mrs. Lanjri. You didn't even listen. You are playing a whole theatre piece here about the fact that I would have been informed in July by Mr Kucam himself when I said in my first answer that this is not the case. You are performing a whole theatre piece here about the fact that I was supposed to have been informed in July, quot non. I don't think that's very neat either.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u70	Mr Francken, can you continue?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u71	I think I have answered most of the questions. If there are any questions... you have, of course, made very long statements.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u72	Very briefly on the question of these two procedures. You did indeed reply to that. I understand your response at macro level, but it doesn't add up at micro level. I'll make it very concrete. Take that Syrian family from Aleppo who applies for a visa via the embassy and is denied it. I have always defended you with Article 3 of the ECHR on jurisdiction. That case has now been referred to the Grand Chamber in Strasbourg. I think we're both holding on to what's going to come out there, but it's not exactly predictable. But they did not receive a visa because they had been through the DVZ procedure. Someone else from Aleppo, who is in Beirut and who has been through the Francken procedure, is on a list of someone in Belgium and has a 100 percent success rate. These are two similar situations which are dealt with through two different procedures. This must be the same in the two cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u73	If the DVZ procedure had been used for the Aleppo 2015 rescue operation, it would not have been possible to organise that operation. That is then a political choice of the government. I wouldn't have been here either. Then we wouldn't have saved those people and some of those people wouldn't have survived. That's the only way to organize this. Mr Roosemont has also said this. If a decision is taken to set up a humanitarian corridor for Syrian Christians from Syria, as Mark Geleyn's group did in March 2015, there is no alternative but to the way it has happened now. You call that a Francking procedure, but it is a parallel procedure Article 9. [[Mrs Lanjri indignantly exclaims "no, no']] Mr Roosemont did say that. Mrs Lanjri, I am sure you would have handled all this quite differently.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u74	Mr Francken, you are confusing two things. You are using two examples to make your point: Aleppo and Sant'Egidio. Aleppo was at the request of an ex-ambassador. That's a confidant you probably didn't want to screen. This was an emergency. Here, a corridor was created directly from endangered areas in Syria. It was for this purpose that the power to decide was limited. No one here is questioning that. Sant'Egidio was from the neighbouring countries with a very strict procedure and with absolute criteria about vulnerability. No one here is questioning that. We want to know where the other groups came from. Did they come directly from Syria or from neighbouring countries? Are all the people from Kucam's list coming straight from Syria? Can you answer that question? Second, did they have papers or passports? It's not about individual chips. You could have asked the Commissioner perfectly what the situation was like on the spot. Can you tell me if all the people on Kucam Syrians' lists are? Or are there Turks among them? Is that one of the reasons why they're not asking for asylum here? Why not apply for asylum? I do not know if you know the reality, but there are people in Belgium who prefer not to have papers because they are engaged in activities that are not allowed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u75	That's not right. Those were Syrians, not Turks. Your insinuations...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u76	The degree of recognition of Syrians at present is 66%, so it has fallen. It's been 95%, but not anymore. The Commissioner shall amend the opinion. Nor can you say that everyone who comes from Syria is given papers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u77	Mr President, it is insinuated that they are Turks, they are Syrians. I have the criteria...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u78	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u79	That's what I heard. Your link to that cocaine case, what the hell does that have to do with anything? Nothing. That's on you. They're Syrians. They have Syrian nationality. A copy of their passport will be delivered. Afterwards, the Beirut Embassy checks whether one is a Syrian and not a Turk or Armenian or anything. So one must be a Syrian, otherwise one will not get a visa. It's obvious, isn't it? An identity check must be carried out and additional vulnerability checked. Families with children, single women, elderly people, people with medical problems are all controlled, as is a family link with Belgium. There is a screening by the VVSG or the OCAD and since spring 2018 also an additional check at DVZ if they are already in other databases. That control has taken place, so there are no Turks or Armenians at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u80	Let's get back to the facts. We are not talking about the 2015 Mark Geeyn rescue operation. The reason we're here together is the rescue operation, the Francken-Melikan Kucam system. I would remind you that Melikan Kucam was handing out documents, not in Syria but in Beirut, in Lebanon. Do you know who else is active in Lebanon, Mr Francken? Sant'Egidio, the UN. The reason why we are sitting here together, in particular the abuse, corruption and fraud involving Melikan Kucam, could have been avoided if you had not worked in Lebanon with Kucam on the streets of Beirut, but with Sant'Egidio or the UN. Both organisations are active there. That's the key to the whole file.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u81	Mr De Vriendt, do you still have a question, because a reply without a question in a hearing makes little sense?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u82	Mr President, may I make my point?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u83	Absolutely, but I want the arrangement to go smoothly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u84	I would like to say a few words about the UN's opinion. You state that you do not know why the UN has been in Syria since 2015 and suggests that this might be for the control of chemical weapons. That is exactly what the text says: 'I did not know that the UN Refugee Organisation is involved in the control of chemical weapons'. The document literally states that UNHCR has six offices in Syria, namely Damascus, Aleppo, Qamishli, Tartous, Homs and Swaida. And what's she doing there? That is also stated in the opinion. She does not check for chemical weapons but is there: "to respond to the humanitarian needs of an increase number of internally displaced persons." The UN Refugee Organisation has been there since 2015 and has knowledge of the refugee problem in Syria, has the networks there, has contacts there, has six offices there. If you want to do a rescue operation from Syria, do you have to explain to me why, as a policy-maker, you do not have the reflex that makes sense, especially to work with the official bodies? Instead, you prefer to search for contacts that are closely linked to your party. Hence the whole mess. You have not had the reflex, which can be expected from a policymaker. There's been no check by the DVZ for vulnerability. You say that since the beginning of 2018 the DVZ had to check whether persons were not involved in other procedures, that's true. But Mr Roosemont has literally said here that there is no check on vulnerability, and this is also important in the way people get on the lists. After all, one can be vulnerable, but there are many vulnerable in Syria. Then who's gonna decide who's gonna be on those lists? Are those the individual intermediaries? It wasn't the DVZ, it wasn't the Commissioner General, and it wasn't the UN. In those years, all the authorities that could comment on the situation on the ground have moved aside and you have preferred to engage with your own individual intermediaries. Hence the discussion, that is the essence.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u85	It is clear that we have heard today and also in recent weeks that this has gone wrong. We have seen very clearly that you have not walked the normal routes with the normal procedures, normal procedures which may be different depending on whether it is a resolution or rescue operation or individual files. Mr Francken, instead of walking the normal roads, you have paved a new road, the way in which we know us. In fact, you have given a free pass to people who came here through Mr Kucam. You said quite literally earlier that only a formal check was carried out for those files, unlike all the files dealt with by the DVZ, in which the normal course was followed. By the way, Mr Roosemont explained to us last week that 230 of the 623 applications were granted and 393 were refused, precisely because they were subject to a thorough screening of vulnerability. For the persons who came here through Mr Kucam, there was no screening, either on your cabinet or by the DVZ. You have used your discretion to give the persons on the list a visa. Today you are trying to hide behind the successful operations, the rescue operations of Sant' Egidio, Mr Geleyn and others, where there were no abuses. We are not questioning them, by the way. What we have problems with is that for individual applications there was sometimes and sometimes no thorough screening. You didn't say anything about that in your improvement plan either. You say you're 100 percent behind rescue operations. The fact that you are 100 % behind the rescue operations is not a problem. I support that for 200 %. But that you do not reject your actions with the Kucam lists, I cannot understand. Apparently, you don't have a problem with the fact that there was randomness. Apparently, you had no problem with the fact that one was screened and the other wasn't. You've actually behaved like a Roman emperor holding up the thumb one time and the other time down the thumb.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u86	Mrs. Lanjri, please finish. A minister of your own party is waiting outside.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u87	That is not possible, Mr Francken, and I am sorry that you have not said a word of regret.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u88	There is no distinction between Mr Geleyn's story and that of other intermediaries. It went exactly the same way. The claim really doesn't make any sense. Mr De Vriendt, you are talking about Kucam's boyfriendism, that he was handing out passports on the market in Beirut. No, the following has happened. We didn't have an embassy in Syria at that time. So they had to go to Beirut to get a humanitarian visa. There was no other way. How else could we organize that? You should tell me. So they went to our Belgian embassy and had to identify themselves with their passport and original documents. Mr Kucam went along with that, as did representatives of the Gave Veste. Those were middlemen who sort of organized it over there. These people are all individuals, and this has been stated by the ambassador here, but you forgot exactly that - in the morning, from 8:00 a.m., at the consulate. They identified themselves and there was a conversation. Our consulate in Beirut is apparently on the eighth floor and 40 to 50 people in the elevator was very clumsy. Purely for the sake of logistics, it has been said to give the humanitarian visas, which were put in the passport, with Mr Kucam, as responsible for the group. The images you have seen relate to Mr Kucam, who returns his individual passport to everyone. That wasn't about Belgian passports or visas just to hand out. No, those people were all passed, screened, identified in the morning at the Belgian consulate in Beirut. That's very important, isn't it? That image was very ugly, but was really put in a certain context in that reportage of Pano, which is not representative at all. And I'm glad the consul said the same thing here last week or two weeks ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u89	Mr President, this is no longer a hearing. We had said that the meeting would not be a committee of inquiry. What we have seen today goes even further than what is happening in a committee of inquiry. A lot of accusations are being made here against the former Secretary of State. There are many pseudo-research judges present here who pretend that the court has already ruled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u90	Mr President, this is a dialogue of the deaf. Our colleague is right, it is not a committee of inquiry. I wish I had a commission of inquiry...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u91	You have already said that on several occasions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u92	I know it's someone who's close to you but let me say it! We did not have answers to central questions. What did the Secretary of State know? When? From who? What was the extent of this trafficking in human beings? Mr President, it is for this reason that I ask that the proposals for a parliamentary committee of inquiry put forward by several political groups be put on the agenda of our next committee. I wish to have the truth about these issues. The former Secretary of State tells us that he acted purely on the basis of humanitarian criteria, but that is not the case! He admitted that he had made a political choice. That's what we have to keep. He did act on the basis of political criteria, partisans, and, through this close collaborator, on the basis of a clientelist will. His argument that he had to use two different ways depending on the people who were in Syria or elsewhere obviously doesn't stand the way! He could, even in the case of Aleppo, work with the seriousness of the Sant'Egidio organization. I want to make this very clear. I would therefore like our next committee to be able to debate these proposals for committees of inquiry.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u93	Mr President, my proposal is in line with that of Mr Dallemagne. Today, we did not get the answers we were waiting for. We have been asking for a commission of inquiry for a few days. It is clear that this issue has been dealt with lightly or even with laxity. Mr Franken, your policy has probably been firm – human, I don't know – with the most fragile but it has been lax with your friends and with the richest!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u94	Mr President, I just wanted to remind you of our conversation with the director of the DVZ. He declared that there were people who didn't have a passport. If they didn't have a passport, how was the identity checked? That happened afterwards. But first they got a laissez-passer. That's what he said.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u95	Mr President, I have another point to follow up on, because the story of course is not over. The judicial investigation is still ongoing. You just referred to the administrative investigation currently being carried out by Mrs De Block. Mrs De Block will be coming to the committee next week, but not yet with the results of that administrative inquiry. I suggest that the committee retains the openness to take note of the results of the administrative inquiry and that, if that report raises any additional questions, we retain the possibility of inviting Mr Francken to the committee for a second time. The administrative investigation will, of course, reveal additional problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1035x.u96	I have already replied in the affirmative to a question on the subject by Mr Dewael. Your question is a repeat of Mr Dewael's. I refer to my answer. I'll wait for the results. We shall look at how we organise this in a subsequent arrangement. But, of course, we are dealing with the work of the committee and we are dealing with it ourselves.
