ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic011x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, we will begin our work. Good morning, everyone. At the outset, I would like to apologize to our colleague President, Mr Delizée, who cannot be present today. Under Rule 8, I am replacing him. In this exercise, as our agenda is very busy, I propose a brief introductory statement by the Minister on the subject that concerns us today, namely the state of affairs at Proximus, followed by a brief introductory statement by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, Mr. From Clerck. The oral questions will then be posed by the members present. A debate and the minister's response will follow. Mr De Backer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic011x.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, welcome back. At the start of this exchange of views, I would like to make a number of points. After all, I have seen and heard several people in the press saying things that are not correct. Firstly, I would like to emphasise very clearly that Proximus is an independent public undertaking. This means that the company is not controlled by government or politics. It is the board of directors that makes decisions in the interests of the company. Since the new law on public enterprises in 2015, the government has not intervened in the appointment or salary of the CEO. It is the directors who are appointed to the general meeting. The Chairperson and the CEO shall be designated by the Management Board. I also think this is a good thing. That may have taken far too long, but it is now finally a fact. These rules of corporate governance, with a clear demarcation between the roles of shareholders, directors and management, are much better defined. The government runs a country and not a company. It is not up to politicians to manage public enterprises on a daily basis. I have already said in the past, and I will repeat it again, that I am convinced that we need to go further in the next step. In my opinion, it is up to the next government to pool all public participations in the federal holding company FPIM and thus to build a centre of expertise for the management of those holdings. Moreover, this government has made it possible to lower public interest in these companies below 50%. I believe that the next government should also leave that option open, with, of course, the necessary safeguards provided under this government. Those clear rules of corporate governance, and the respect for them, also imply that the board should decide on the wage package and any incentives for management. In June the extension of Dominique Leroy's contract was discussed. One of the elements raised at the time was indeed the long-term incentive to which she wished to claim. At that time, as a shareholder, the Government advised the Management Board that it did not consider it appropriate to grant a long-term incentive of 1,900 staff involved restructuring during negotiations on a redundancy plan. Afterwards, the board also decided to make that long-term incentive dependent on successfully completing the social plan. However, Dominique Leroy decided to leave the company and, therefore, to give up his mandate. Meanwhile, Proximus and Mrs Leroy agreed that the latter would leave at the end of the week. Regarding the sale of the Proximus shares by Mrs Leroy, it is the FSMA that is checking whether it is an insider trading offence. As we know, Mrs. Leroy is switching to KPN. Is there a competition problem because Mrs Leroy is switching to a Dutch telecom operator? Mrs Leroy's contract contains a non-compete clause. That term is subject to certain conditions. The clause applies in Belgium and also in other European countries where Proximus achieves more than 5% of its turnover. This does not include the Netherlands. The scope of such a clause cannot simply be extended to countries where Proximus is not competitive or not active, as this would be contrary to a number of legal rules. Moreover, I believe that the current wage package will provide sufficient candidates to become Proximus' CEO. It is up to the Management Board to decide on the distribution of the wage package over a basic wage, a short-term incentive and a long-term incentive. In my opinion, it is healthy that a CEO should also receive a long-term incentive and be paid in the long term. All members of the executive committee should be given the same parameters and incentives. As for the profile of the new CEO, it is up to the remuneration committee and the board to determine that. I think it is important to organise an international search and to find the best man or woman for the job. That does not necessarily have to be a Belgian, although I believe that there are enough valid candidates in Belgium too. In the meantime, Sandrine Dufour will act as CEO ad interim, with the support of the Chair and the Executive Committee. She will take over Ms Leroy's responsibilities, including social consultation. Let me make one more point very clear. The digital transformation plan is not just a Dominique Leroy plan. It is a plan that is supported by the Management Board and the entire Executive Board. The plan will therefore be implemented. The Management Board gave the Executive Board the mandate to conduct the social negotiations on the implementation of the plan. The change of the guard within Proximus has no impact on this. I have tried very quickly to outline a retrospective picture and to look forward to the future of Proximus in terms of the transformation plan and the innovation that is taking place in that sector. I believe that all stakeholders in this story have a common goal, namely to continue to make Proximus a strong company, to grow Proximus, to find a good CEO and to secure the future of Proximus in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic011x.u3	Madam Chair, Minister, it is always a pleasure to come to the federal Parliament. I am at your disposal to answer any questions that you may ask the Minister and to which I can provide a portion of the response from the Proximus Board of Directors that I chair. I will first provide you with some information on the timing of events to clarify the discussions. Ms Dominique Leroy was appointed by Royal Decree of 10 January 2014 for a term of six years. This deadline started on 14 January 2014 and ends on 13 January 2020. The board has always stated that it was willing and willing to renew the contract. To this end, at the General Assembly of April 2019, i.e. the last General Assembly, the Management Board proposed to extend its mandate as director for a period of four years. This was accepted by the General Assembly. That was a signal saying that people wanted her to carry on with her mission. From June onwards, I myself, of course in consultation with the remuneration committee and with the board of directors, consulted Mrs Leroy on the renewal of her mandate. On 3 July, Mrs Leroy officially announced by letter that she was prepared to renew her mandate under certain conditions. These conditions concerned, on the one hand, the support of the Management Board for the continuation of the strategy and priorities set and, on the other hand, the need to be able to obtain a long-term incentive, like the other members of the Management Committee. These conditions were tested with the government, since at the general meeting the remuneration report has to be approved by the shareholders, with precise indication of all fees, especially those of the CEO. Indeed, following consultations with the government, as the Minister has just said, the recommendation was that the granting of a long-term incentive would be possible once the social dossier had been dealt with. The terms and conditions were therefore discussed and approved by the Governing Board at its meeting on 29 July last. A meeting took place between myself and Mrs Leroy after the board of directors on 29 July. On 30 July, she was given a new version of the draft agreement. The parties then agreed to continue the conversation and finalise the contract after Mrs Leroy's leave. On 27 August, however, Mrs Leroy informed me that she had the strong intention not to renew her agreement for another international opportunity. On 2 September she informed me that it was KPN. On Thursday 5 September, Mrs Leroy officially announced that she did not wish to renew her mandate. It then asked to be able to terminate its mandate early on 1 December 2019. At that time, I consulted each individual driver by telephone, and the board of directors answered her question. The Governing Council issued a press release that same evening to communicate this information to the market. I personally informed the representatives of the trade unions. On Monday 9 September, as chairman, I received a letter from the representative trade unions, in which they took the view that Mrs Leroy was switching to a competitive company and asked that the contract with Mrs Leroy be terminated, that cooperation should cease and that social dialogue should cease. I therefore had a meeting with the representative trade unions on the same day, some of which are here. Also on 9 September, a letter was received from the FSMA asking for information. On Tuesday 10 September there have been some limited spontaneous actions in the company. On Thursday 12 September the situation was discussed in the appointment and remuneration committee. At that time, agreements were made on the procedure to be followed for the search for a new CEO. On Saturday 14 September, so last Saturday, a special meeting of the board of directors took place, where the following decisions were taken. Firstly, in common agreement with Mrs Leroy, it has been decided that her mandate will be terminated next Friday, 20 September. Secondly, Mrs Sandrine Dufour, CFO, is appointed CEO ad interim, with the support of the President, from 21 September next. A new meeting of the Management Board is scheduled for tomorrow, which will address, among other things, the further aspect of the procedure for the appointment of a new CEO as soon as possible. Then the choice of the office will take place and the profile will be recorded. That will be done tomorrow by the board of directors. Madam President, I will confine myself to this chronological overview and will remain at your disposal and that of parliamentarians to answer their questions. When the minister refers to me, I will speak because the questions, in principle, are addressed to him. So I'm still at your disposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic011x.u4	Good morning, Mr De Clerck, the PVDA Group was asking for this hearing. We therefore welcome your presence. I would like to address two important points. Firstly, the transition plan, with which Mrs Leroy started. We must call a cat a cat: it is about a collective dismissal of 1,900 employees. Those 1,900 employees are living in uncertainty today. They don't know if they'll have another job tomorrow. I can give you an example. My neighbor works at Proximus. She's a single mother and can't go on vacation. She has a salary of 1,500 euros. She doesn't sleep well because she doesn't know if she's gonna have a job tomorrow. I quote that example because it is important for the ordinary people who work at Proximus. The unions say the transition plan would weaken the company. It would increase service provision and hypercompetivity for Proximus. However, we ask ourselves a great many questions and fear that the savings plan will lead to a deterioration of the service and will not strengthen the company. Secondly, is there no conflict of interest when the CEO moves from one company to another, Mr De Clerck? How will we explain to people that a public undertaking, which makes half a billion euros of profits, wants to fire 1,900 people at the same time? Could you explain that for a moment? The PVDA is always on the side of the workers. We express our solidarity with the trade unions and their demand for the immediate departure of Dominique Leroy. We support the work interruptions that have been taking place in Belgium. I think it is a punishment that ordinary workers should immediately resign from Proximus if they leave for competition, while Mrs Leroy needs action. The unions had to intervene to settle it. The spontaneous actions of the staff indicate the dissatisfaction with the current state of affairs within the company. I also recall your work in the face, Mr De Clerck, when you announced on national television that Mrs Leroy's annual salary, EUR 940,000, or EUR 75,000 per month, is too low to attract a good CEO. I can assure you that people are very angry and disgruntled for that. At the same time, Mrs Leroy asked the call centres, which work for Proximus, to move to the low-wage countries and thus reduce the costs, so that they could then move abroad to earn more. That's about 90 people. We have to do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic011x.u5	For the PVDA, it is clear that the wage ceiling for public enterprises must be respected. How much is the wage ceiling for us? 290,000 euros a year. That's what the Prime Minister gets every year. That should be sufficient to direct a public undertaking if the same amount is sufficient to govern a country such as Belgium. Mrs Leroy has already earned our Prime Minister's salary more than three times, thanks to all sorts of perks. She shouldn't worry about her retirement anymore. That's gonna be big, thanks to her job as CEO at Proximus. But what about the pensions of the ordinary people at Proximus? Between 2015 and 2017, the salaries of CEOs in Belgium increased by nineteen percent. In the same period, the median wage for ordinary people did not go up, among other things because of the index jump. The employers' organisations and the government constantly say that wage costs remain too high, that there is no money to increase purchasing power. If you see that the wages for the CEOs continue to rise at an untenable pace, then something isn't right, is it? Isn't this a famous pay handicap of the Belgian CEOs? Mr De Clerck, last week we heard that the twelve CD & V apostles expect more strong statements from their mandatators in the future. So you spoke for your turn when you announced on 8 September in the Seventh Day that the wage ceiling for the next Proximus-CEO had to be broken. Today, the Proximus installer has to work for 40 years to receive Mrs Leroy's annual salary. As far as we are concerned, this is a full career. And yet that's not enough. Mrs. Leroy wanted more and will get more from KPN. You are defending her decision here on behalf of the government and you are following the reasoning that the wage ceiling must be broken in order to find another CEO who has the ability to control Proximus. Belgium has a shortage of skilled people: teachers, caregivers, engineers, kindergarten teachers, cleaning staff, so-called bottleneck professions. However, there is no increase for them. Pretending that there is a lack of people to run a modern public company like Proximus, if they earn only EUR 900 000 a year, is really out of control. You really don't know what lives in society, you don't know what lives in the Proximus staff if you say this. Proximus is a public undertaking and must in that capacity pursue matters other than pure profit maximization for shareholders. A wage ceiling is therefore part of an ethical corporate culture for us. Under the Michel administration, people's real wages have fallen every year. Bills are rising, including telecom products, and the government has imposed an index jump. At the same time, it has amended the wage bill so that the social partners are no longer free to negotiate wage increases. A part of each storage is removed to increase competitiveness. The government, also in current affairs, is one of two sizes and two weights: weak tea for ordinary workers and champagne for the elite. Mrs Leroy worked as an independent CEO. In other words, she paid much less social security contributions on her generous income than her employees on the workplace, such as technicians, sellers and cleaning staff. At the same time, it was entitled to additional benefits, such as shares and retirement, things that ordinary workers can only dream of, and yet it is not enough. The elite serve themselves. The wages of ordinary workers are kept under wraps. For the ordinary people, the government has for years set a wage ceiling, but for the managers the wages go through the roof. I think it is high time we did something about this. We introduce a real wage ceiling of EUR 290,000 per year, including extras. After all, Mrs Leroy had extras, or do you think that a Proximus employee also sold a 285,000 euro share package during the summer holidays? For them, that's a fantasy. However, every employee earns 100,000 euros per year for the company. It is they who produce the added value. The wage tension between the employees and the company summit is untenable. For a few years now, the PVDA calculates when the average CEO has received the annual wage from his employees, that day we call the gray day. The gray day for Dominique Leroy was on January 2, 2019, the first working day of the year. After her first working day this year, she had already earned more than 60% of all Belgian employees a whole year. Mr De Clerck, the workers of Proximus who are switching to competition must immediately leave the company in order to prevent conflicts of interest. Why didn't that apply to the CEO? Can you tell us the wage tension within Proximus and do you think today is a good time to increase that wage tension? Was Mrs Leroy provided for a so-called gold parachute scheme upon discharge?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic011x.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Vindevoghel. Colleagues, I really invite you to come together to be effective in the continuation of our work this morning. I now give the floor to Mr Troosters.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic011x.u7	Madam President, first of all, I would like to thank the Minister and the Chairman of the Administrative Board, Mr De Clerck, for their explanation of my question and those of other speakers. However, a few points remain. Above all, we felt uncomfortable about the fact that Mrs Leroy could have continued to work until December, with all the insider knowledge she had. However, this response was appropriate by allowing for a faster departure. I would also like to hear a little more about the concrete consequences for social dialogue and the planned restructuring. I would also like to pick up on what you said about the terms of the non-compete clause. Apparently this depends on the extent to which Proximus is active in a particular country. Do you think it would be desirable or useful for a legal initiative to be taken to create the possibility of intertwining this?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic011x.u8	Madam President, I would like to thank both gentlemen for their comments. However, there are still a lot of questions left. In the interests of the company and the social dialogue, it is good that the CEO is leaving early, at the end of this week. I find it absurd that this was not evident. The chairman of the board, Mr De Clerck, apparently felt it was normal for Mrs Leroy to remain in her post for a few months. I have questions about such an approach. After all, we are talking about a billion-dollar company which could be expected to have a very professional approach, a professional leadership. However, that is not what we have been able to hear from the press over the past few weeks. There were a lot of personal opinions spread in the press, leading to amateurism. I have a few questions about that. Mr De Clerck, there has been a lot of communication, but I would like to know the difference between your communication about your personal opinion and belief and the communication about what was effectively decided by the board. What was discussed there? What's the result? Who, for example, initially decided to allow Mrs Leroy to work until 1 December? Then who finally decided on the early departure? Has a profile been established for the follow-up and has a headhunter office already been appointed? Is an open procedure under consideration? How's the board gonna do that? Does the language role play in recruitment, for example? A second point which is very important to my group is the discussion on the wage ceiling. Mr De Clerck referred to this as a handicap in the press. That immediately reminds me of the pronunciation if you pay peanuts you get monkeys. Let us be clear, we may all agree in this committee that Mrs Leroy has been a worthy leader of the company. It is therefore difficult to say that she was not competent, but a year's wager of almost EUR 1 million is not immediately peanuts. We are talking about huge amounts of money, and when we talk about the wage ceiling, we must also take this into account. After all, it is four times more than what the Prime Minister deserves and thirteen times more than what the average employee earns at Proximus. Those amounts are really huge. I would like to ask the Chairman of the Administrative Board, Mr De Clerck, the following questions. How do you see the long-term bonus? If you want to include the long-term bonus in the negotiations, it is strange that you should publish that potential asset in the press. What's the strategy behind that? Until when will Mrs Leroy be paid out? Is an exit premium provided for? How many members of the board earn more than the company's CEO? What is the government's position on the wage ceiling? One final point concerns the transformation plan. The transformation plan means that 1,900 employees are dismissed. With all the functions in the call centres included, that number is up to 3,000 employees. It may have been under-exposed, but at the time Mrs Leroy announced her departure, there was also the removal of 96 jobs in one of the call centres. Such deletions are huge. We therefore have no choice but to see that this is a very blunt saving, with digitalisation as an excuse. Moreover, it is organised social dumping. After all, we note that many contracts will be completed abroad in the future. Mrs. Leroy was still negotiating on that plan. It is therefore very important to know the state of play in this regard. Can the plan as a whole be called into question again? The press also talks about additional efforts by employees and a surrender in terms of newcomers' working conditions. We would also like to know more about this. Does Proximus take measures to accompany the workers in subcontracting to a job or are they left to their own devices? What is the company's strategic vision for the future in this respect? Finally, Minister, I would like to ask you the following question. There was a fourth telecom player on the market for a long time. Mrs Leroy said that this would have an impact on employment at Proximus. Can you tell me more about that?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic011x.u9	Madam President, Minister De Clerck, on behalf of my group, Ecolo-Groen, I wanted to thank you for being present in committee today. This is a very important issue. As soon as Mrs Leroy's departure was announced, we were the first group to ask for this exchange of views with you, Mr Leroy, but obviously also with Mr Leroy. De Clerck, Chairman of the Board of Directors. It is important to react quickly in such circumstances. I wanted to stress the importance of today's exchange of views. I will make a comment on what you said in the introduction, minister. The debate has already often taken place here, between you and us, between your predecessor and us, on the vision of a public enterprise. As I have already told you on many occasions, there is no question for us of asking you, as the appropriate minister, to do operational management or to deal with Proximus in an operational manner. On the other hand, we believe that the State must behave as an ambitious shareholder, with a real long-term vision of what we believe is important: the quality of service, employment, knowledge at home, in Belgium, the local anchor of employment. A 53% shareholder of a company, as is the case with the state in Proximus, must have long-term thinking and intervene in strategic choices, whether it is the transformation plan or the appointment of a CEO. These are strategic choices. I do not want to repeat the debate here, but I wanted to stress this because you mentioned it in your introduction. These are two important elements to us. The most important thing is the situation at Proximus today. The transformation plan was announced last January. It is potentially 1,900 jobs that will disappear, with an impact on 1,900 families. Mrs Leroy was in charge of negotiating this transformation plan and that is why her departure is a real difficulty, with all the circumstances that have been said and which are somewhat surprising in view of leaks in the press. This departure takes place at a time when a profound, constructive, effective social dialogue was to be held for the benefit of each worker. It is essential to have a positive vision for the future of Proximus, whether for workers, for investment in infrastructure, or for tackling the digital divide and ensuring that services are accessible to as many people as possible. These are the most important beacons for Proximus' future tomorrow, after the turbulence we are going through today. Minister, I turn now to my questions, already taking into account what you have said in your introduction. The fact that Ms. Leroy announced her departure for a company in the same sector (KPN) raises the question. You explained what's in the contract. All right, I'll take note of it. But I think that in any other sector it would be a question of going to a competitor in a neighbouring country. I also find it extremely surprising that we did not react more strongly, by informing Ms Leroy at the CEO that it is not possible for her to stay even longer. First, it was a question of staying until the end of the year. Now, you've changed that decision and it stays until the end of this week. What prompted you to make this decision? I imagine that the unions played a role in this change of decision; I think it was legitimate and important. But I still wanted to see what made you change your mind to finally make the decision that, in our view, had to be made at the base. As I said, for us, it's really very important. What is the status of the transformation plan discussions? We parliamentarians have no information at this stage on employment. There are about 1,900 workstations. You announced that there would be no dry layoffs, the last time we saw each other in Parliament. Do you maintain this objective, this guarantee? What is the status of discussions with the social partners and in particular with the trade unions? Mr De Clerck, I was surprised to read your statements on the salary ceiling. You have a lot of political experience, apart from your business experience. In my view, to consider such an annual salary of 650 000 euros gross, without benefits, is not enough, it is really a lack of respect for all workers – not only those of Proximus, but in general. I find this extremely regrettable. To imagine that one cannot recruit a talented and quality CEO in Belgium, under these conditions, seems incomprehensible to me. Really, I don't know why you made this statement to the press. I think it's really disrespectful of workers. What is the status of the engagement procedure now? Minister, if I understood the introduction correctly, you said that you felt that the current package should be sufficient to find someone. On the other hand, I hear that the board of directors had made a new offer to Ms. Leroy. What will eventually be put on the table in the search for a new or new CEO? Let it be clear: for ecologists, there is no question of raising this wage ceiling, which is already very high. We are convinced that we can find quality men and women in Belgium to perform this function under these conditions. Finally, has the board ever started to define a profile? How will the procedure proceed? Above all, we hope that the future CEO will have a solid experience in social dialogue. That is why we would like to know your profile priorities. The task of the new CEO will indeed be enormous in terms of social consultation within the company.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic011x.u10	Madam President, Minister, Mr De Clerck, I have to confess quite frankly that I have been following the soap opera that has emerged from Mrs Leroy's departure with increasing amazement over the last few days. On 5 September it was announced that Mrs Leroy will leave Proximus on 1 December to work with the Dutch telecom company KPN. On the same weekend, Mr De Clerck, the chairman of the Management Board, confirmed that news. He added in one breath that it would not be easy to find another CEO, because of the wage ceiling of 650,000 euros, which he called a handicap. You heard me right, colleagues. An annual wage of 650,000 euros, without extras, is more than what an average employee earns at twenty years. So it is not surprising to me that the thirteen thousand employees of Proximus are worried. They are rightly concerned about the restructuring plans on the table, which would remove 1,900 jobs, and on which Mrs Leroy was in charge. At the moment, all the details of these plans are missing. So it is not surprising that the social partners are going to get a story from their board of directors. The board, as we later heard, did not agree with its chairman in the beginning to hold Mrs Leroy until 1 December. More importantly, the members of the board say that the resignation is a surprise for them because they initially assumed that Mrs Leroy would renew her contract. There would be a long-term bonus on top of the annual wage of EUR 650,000. However, this weekend it was decided that Mrs Leroy will leave on 20 September and that she will be replaced by Mrs Dufour, the CFO of Proximus. If you list this together with me, I think you would find it logical that the Ecolo Green Group asked for this hearing. As a majority shareholder of Proximus, the government has a duty to question these events. Especially, the future of Proximus is very important to us. We therefore have the following questions for you. What progress has been made on the restructuring plans which have been announced by Mrs Leroy in the past? What tasks will Mr De Clerck and Mrs Dufour have in the consultation with the social partners, which is likely to take place in the coming weeks? Mr Minister, what are the requirements, even if this is a matter for the Governing Board, which, in your opinion, are important in the search for a new CEO? Do you intend to maintain the current fixed wage ceiling?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic011x.u11	Madam President, Minister, Mr De Clerck, thank you for being here today. According to Dominique Leroy, her departure from Proximus was not only motivated by the salary, but was certainly a factor that played a part. In the business world, the adage money talks, bull... walks... I don't know if I can say that in full here. What would we be like? A doubling or triple of his wages doesn't just turn down anyone. Everyone, both friend and enemy, agrees that Dominique Leroy was a top manager and that her departure is a loss for Proximus. Duco Sickinghe from KPN said that they do not have a wage-limiting measure as in Belgium. Of course not, because KPN is fully privatised and the Dutch government also has no shares in the company. N-VA was always of the opinion that for a commercially autonomous company there could be a deviation from the prime minister standard and a little more for listed companies. As long as the government is a majority shareholder, we can expect our representatives on the board to monitor wage moderation. On the other hand, we must realise that it is important for a listed company such as Proximus to be able to compete in a competitive and innovative market, not to be restrained and certainly not to be restricted by the government. So the solution is obvious. The majority participation of the federal government in Proximus should be reduced. We believe that the problem will resolve itself. I follow what the Minister has said, so he will certainly find a partner in that. It is not political to engage with the wages of managers of listed companies. Nor should we impose all kinds of strategies or policy choices. N-VA represents a government that is lean-and-mean, which means that the government performs a number of key tasks for citizens. Everything else isn't part of it. Running a telecom company, selling subscriptions, phones and mobile phones is all very nice, but that is not one of the central tasks of the government. Of course, it is important that we keep our finger on the ground, because it is critical infrastructure. We believe that this is possible if the government holds 25% of the shares + 1. Perhaps Dominique Leroy's departure could have been avoided if there had been no wage ceiling. We therefore believe that it is a wage handicap and I believe that Stefaan De Clerck used that word in the media. If it depends on N-VA, there will be talks about further privatisation. We will also put that on the table in the government negotiations. Mr Minister, you said that the competitive clause is not enforceable in the Netherlands, because Proximus does not achieve 5% of its turnover there. If KPN comes up with a takeover bid next year, is that fair to other companies that might also want to bid for Proximus? Could that possibly be used against us? Are there no legal problems lurking in there? Dominique Leroy, of course, knows the ins and outs of that company much better than anyone else. Can we do something about that? On the future of Proximus, pending the appointment of a new CEO, the current CFO, Sandrine Dufour, was appointed as interim CEO. Can you guarantee the continuity of the strategic decisions taken by the previous CEO, including the announced reorganisations? What impact will that have on the social dialogue? I also understand that a mediator was appointed. What is the specific role and task of that person? Mr De Clerck, I now come to my questions to you as chairman of the Proximus board of directors. What is the procedure for appointing a new CEO? By when is a new appointment expected? I also understood that people are working with an interaction, where a Fleming is at the head of the board of directors and a French-speaking CEO. Can you explain whether or not this interaction is legally enforceable? At least we are in favour of simply giving the best man or woman the post of CEO. Do you share our plea? Does it make any difference whether the CEO candidate is a Fleming or Waal? How does it go when we look at candidates from abroad? Finally, I have a question about Dominique Leroy's departure. First December was mentioned as the departure date, now she's already leaving at the end of this week. Can you tell me what happened? Who's been wrong here? Has Mrs Leroy decided to put forward that date under pressure from the board of directors, under pressure from the press? Did she make that decision herself? Has she come to her senses after talking to you? I would have liked to have had more insight into that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic011x.u12	We shall close the oral questions here. I would now like to appeal to members who are still seeking clarification. The services will take note.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic011x.u13	Madam President, thank you. We're not going to dwell on Mrs. Leroy's case. Of course, we agree with the fact that his departure was anticipated on 20 September and is no longer scheduled on 1 December as originally planned, in particular because of the current social tensions. In fact, we believe that the one who negotiates the agreement with the workers must also be the one who will enforce it. What interests us today is the future of the company and, in particular, the procedure for selecting the new managing director and, of course, the question of his future salary. It should be noted that since the reform of the law of public enterprises in 2015 by the Michel government, the public authority, although legitimate, has been totally disresponsible and disenfranchised for the future of the public enterprise: the removal of the commissioner of the government, the power of guardianship of the minister and the appointment of the managing director by the government. Ms Leroy was still engaged under the previous regime, i.e. by a contract concluded between her and the Cabinet of Ministers of the Di Rupo government. It was this contract that capped his salary at 658,000 euros. The 2015 reform removed the political safeguards and €650,000 became the basic wage to which approximately €300,000 of variable wages were added. For the sake of history, I would remind you that Mrs Leroy could potentially earn as much as Didier Bellens (about three million euros), the former boss of Belgacom, should it be recalled, whose too high salary had contributed to his departure from the company. In concrete terms, if it is not perhaps the decency towards Proximus workers whose future is uncertain today, there is no longer a ceiling on the salary of the future managing director. The new salary will be proposed by the Appointment and Remuneration Committee, which is composed mainly of independent directors, i.e. persons from private companies accustomed to the very high wages, to the defence of particular interests, without regard to the general interest. There is no justification for such high wage differentials between the managing director and the workers. This is particularly indecent in the midst of restructuring as Proximus knows it. It is indeed this evolution imposed by five years of right-wing government, by ministers obsessed with the 'all on the market' and privatization, which risks determining the profile of the new managing director. However, Proximus is not just any company. Its economic weight in a sector linked to technological progress imposes on it a responsibility that goes beyond its shareholders. Through its investment capacity, Proximus has the means to be a sustainable economic, environmental and social model; Proximus has the means to be part of ambitious policies for all. Mr De Clerck, do you think that running a public company requires particular skills, or that a good Telenet boss would be a good Proximus boss? Thirty thousand euros net per month to serve a large state enterprise, is that too little? What kind of life-train is such a wage? How can I justify an increase in the deputy head's salary when 1,900 positions are suspended within the company? Where is the example in such a choice? Rather than trying to raise a salary already twenty times higher than the average Belgian wage, should you not make sure that the profile of the new managing director will be commensurate with the challenges facing a public company? Do you intend to require a profile that meets the economic, social and environmental responsibilities imposed on Proximus? Do you intend to impose a variable share of the wage linked to such social and societal objectives? Mr. Chair, do you confirm that the best candidate will be selected, whether Dutch-speaking or French-speaking, and that it is according to the managing director that the linguistic and legal balances will be established? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic011x.u14	I will try not to repeat too much, because many elements have already been put forward, but it is also appropriate, despite everything, to thank Mrs Leroy for what she has done at Proximus in recent years. Everyone acknowledges that she was a strong CEO and that some respect is appropriate. The fact that she's jumping to another big telecom company shows that too. Of course, that doesn't mean that everything is rose-scented and moonshine. The difficulties associated with the transformation plan in the social dialogue show that there is still some work to be done. The moment of departure, namely, while trying to reach an agreement with the staff on the implementation of the transformation plan, is, to put it mildly, at least annoying. It would have been nicer, perhaps she would have wanted it, if it had already been completed, but it is in a mandate system, which would have ended its mandate in January. The discussion as to whether or not she would continue to work was discussed, whether the transformation plan was completed or not. I was rather charmed by the introduction of Minister De Backer. He has clearly given the framework in which public companies have to operate. It is good to repeat this regularly, because sometimes, here in Parliament too, we tend to reflect on the colour of the ballpoint pens of Proximus employees. Although the autonomy of a public body may certainly be stressed again, Proximus remains, of course, a public body in which the government has a large share. Specific expectations should therefore be attached to this. When it comes to the difficult issue of remuneration, it is appropriate that in companies in which the government has a participation, I do not yet comment on the size of that participation, corporate governance expectations and reasonable wages. I refer to a very strong state fund from Norway. One can compare this with the scenario that Minister De Backer cited, should one evolve into an FPIM. Now, the Norwegian State Fund has a lot of holdings that are not as large as five or ten percent or slightly larger debt securities, but in all these companies it imposes very clear conditions, inter alia, on corporate governance and wages for those holdings. That fund can be an example. My questions are mainly about the non-compete clause. Mr De Clerck has explained what was in the contract, but we still have an uncomfortable feeling: it may not be a direct move to a similar company, but it is still a business in a neighbouring country with possible developments, in connection with which there has been some intense cooperation towards merger in recent years. So I keep struggling with a mixed feeling whether it's obvious. Another element is, of course, the transformation plan, which the staff are concerned about and wonders how it will proceed. Social mediators were appointed. However, the plan is now more than nine months old. In January 2019 it came out through the press and thus without the staff knowing it. By the way, I understand that the staff also heard the CEO's early departure via the press on Friday. I'll put that aside. In any case, the future of the transformation plan is of concern to the staff. It is really necessary to clarify this quickly. It is said that the transformation plan does not depend on the CEO, which seems logical to me, fortunately. In any case, it is imperative that there is an urgent need for clarity for the staff. I hope that we can get even more insight into that. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister and the Chairman of the Management Board for the openness with which they have already answered many questions in their explanatory statement, including the progress of the process over the past few months and weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic011x.u15	Madam President, Minister, Mrs Dominique Leroy has launched a transformation plan whose name is machiavelic. It is simply a redundancies plan, which will cost 1,900 people over three years, while the company makes huge profits. This is outrageous! According to the unions, this plan could weaken Proximus by reducing the quality of its services in an ultra-competitive market. Would it not be blessed bread for KPN, who could then throw himself on Proximus as on a prey and thus lay low on a share of the Belgian telecommunications market? It is a boon for this Dutch company which, as we know, has reached its ceiling in the Netherlands market and which needs new outlets. Can we not therefore talk about a conflict of interest when a CEO moves from one company to another? Today, Dominique Leroy leaves Proximus to go to KPN and earn even more money. You and your government defend this attitude and add that this salary cap must be stopped if we are to find a competent CEO for this company. Nine hundred thousand euros. What does that mean? This is insane. It's unheard of. Is it just to have more than the other CEOs? It is impossible for us to justify to the workers of Proximus what this represents, 900,000 euros. In addition, if OCE salaries increase this way, why is it not the same for workers? Yet they are the ones who create wealth. Under the Michel government, bills have steadily increased, while wages have stagnated, not least because of the index jump, but also because of the law on wages, which prevents the social partners from freely negotiating wage increases. Every time, it is the pretext of competitiveness that is branded. In fact, real wages have declined, except for corporate managers. It is really a double standard policy that the government has applied today in its day-to-day business. When the unions called for Ms Leroy's departure and interrupted the work, the PTB, which is still on the side of the workers, obviously supported them. By their action with Proximus staff, they finally won, since Dominique Leroy will have to empty his office in the next few days. These spontaneous actions show the discontent of the workers with what is happening in their company, but also with Mr. From Clerck. It is only since these actions that management has decided to appoint a social mediator who, together with the unions and the next CEO, will have to take over what Mrs Dominique Leroy leaves behind, namely the announced redundancies plan. The master was also the first to leave the ship with a small difference: while Dominique Leroy asked the call centres working in Proximus to relocate their activities to lower-wage countries to limit costs, she, for her part, moved herself to earn more. You had to do it! At the PTB, it is clear that we want a wage ceiling of €290 000 per year for CEOs of public companies. This amount is equivalent to the Prime Minister's salary. If this is enough to run an entire country, it should be enough to run a public enterprise. Between 2015 and 2017, OCE salaries increased by 19.3%. During the same period, the wages of workers and employees did not change, particularly because of the index jump. Employers' organizations and the government consistently say that wage costs are too high and that there is no money for purchasing power, while, at the same time, the CEO's revenues are growing at a glance. The elite uses it, while workers' wages have been capped by the government for years. It is high time to act. A real wage ceiling of €290 000 per year, including extras, must be introduced, because Mrs Leroy has many extras: €285,000 just by selling her shares this summer, a little for her, but a sum of which the workers would dare not dream. However, Proximus workers pay 100,000 euros each year to the company. The wage pressure between the workers and the top of the company has become untenable. For several years, the PTB has calculated the day of the year when the CEO of a company earned as much in the past year's piece as his workers earned annually.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic011x.u16	Madam President, I did not intend to speak specifically, but in view of the questions, I would still like to go along with what my dear colleague Van den Bergh said. It is worth mentioning too, because we forget it a little bit: we must thank Mrs Leroy for the work she has done during these few years at the head of Proximus because the development of society has been a real success. I think that is indisputable. I would also like to thank the two speakers, Mr. Minister and Mr. De Clerck, for their presence and for transparency in relation to what has been said so far in their first speech. A lot of questions have been asked. There were two of them that I would like to stress. First of all, I would like to know Mrs Dufour's margin of manoeuvre because she will find herself in an interim situation which will not be easy. Much will depend on the room for manoeuvre that she will inherit. Then the two mediators met with each of the parties separately on Tuesday. What are the lessons to be learned from these first meetings? Is trust revived?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic011x.u17	The Minister has clearly outlined the legal framework in which Proximus should operate. In 2015, the law on public companies was amended to allow Proximus and Bpost to operate following the applicable corporate governance rules. That's a good thing. The Chairman of the Management Board has also clearly outlined the timing of the last few months. This is a sign of transparency and correct action for me. It's very unfortunate that Dominique Leroy is leaving. It is now up to the Governing Board to decide on the new CEO and the negotiations on the wage package. In any case, we are confident that the Governing Board will work transparently and correctly in this area, and will take appropriate and rapid decisions on the transformation plan in the interests of the company. In this way, Proximus can compete fully with other private telecom operators on a level playing field. Only then will Proximus be able to guarantee a promising future for all stakeholders, the shareholders, the employees and the customers. We also support the Minister's idea of grouping all other public participations within the FPIM so that professional management of government shares can be guaranteed. Moreover, it remains to be seen whether we should be or should remain a majority shareholder. A decision on this matter may not be for today.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic011x.u18	Madam President, thank you. Minister, Mr. Chairman of the Board of Directors, the cdH group believes that the CEO's salaries have been truly indecent. Despite these hyper-high wages, it is becoming more competitive. Obviously, we are blocked because we are not able to prevent this manoeuvre. Despite these hyper-high treatments, the transition to competition is possible. We're really surprised. This lady, this CEO obviously has a lot of strategies, and I imagine she has a lot of strategies when she goes to KPN. Minister, I want to know the government's position on this and I hope it is not a prelude to the merger between KPN and Proximus! I count on the minister and the chairman of the board of directors to keep this tool in the hands of Belgium. What is the government's vision on this? Shouldn't we guard against such a possibility? In view of this far too large salary, I am thinking of all those people who will lose their jobs (1,900 is a huge figure). Of course, the future of the company is very important to us. At the CDH, we are very pleased that the state is the privileged shareholder of Proximus with its 53.5 % shares. I come to the public who use the services of Proximus when we see what we have seen today at the top of the company: the citizens who have to increasingly use the possibility of teleworking and who do not even enjoy broadband. I insist very much and I hope that you will foresee all this in the future in a specification. Minister, the state with its 53.5 %, even if today Proximus is a private company, and politics have a phenomenal duty on this issue and we must do everything possible to ensure that all Belgians have equal access to all services tomorrow. I always insist on the role of politics at all levels, Mr President, you know that. I insist that in future the company should take account of these essential developments, particularly in areas with low population density. I know that a company that is no longer public is more interested in profitability, and I understand that, but I do not admit that it is more interested in densely populated areas since profitability is taken into account. I am very pleased to see that the province of Luxembourg is also well represented among the parliamentarians present. I am convinced that everyone will tell you the same thing, Minister and Chairman of the Board of Directors: we must do everything possible to satisfy all Belgians, including those in areas with low population density.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic011x.u19	Madam President, thank you. I thank the Minister and the Chairman of the Board of Directors for being with us today. It is regrettable that Mrs Leroy's departure takes place in a context such as that of a transition plan, which she will not be able to accompany and complete. Perhaps it is not going to be fully put in place. I'm putting myself in the place of Proximus workers. This is a real question they have the right to have an answer to. What about this plan? What will happen in the coming weeks and months? What happens if the next CEO does not share the same vision? After all, each CEO comes with their own vision of the company. She could be different from Mrs. Leroy's. On the question of the wage ceiling, the emolument caused by such differences in remuneration should not be minimized. Of course, the telecom sector is very competitive and is a separate market. But in a normal world, what is compensation for? To allow people to live decently of their work. This pays for delivery, responsibilities, expertise and experience. Philosophically, these criteria induce people to earn wages with significant differences. But there, the differences are stratospheric. They are so huge that they are staggered by all these criteria. They serve only to justify one thing: a scale of what a person is worth in a potential CEO market where, in the end, both of them accept only a certain wage by saying: "If I accept a salary lower than such or such, I am worth less than him." This is a drift against which companies maintaining a public share must remain vigilant. We do not want us to touch that wage ceiling that we already think is quite high. I will not believe that we cannot find, for less than 600,000 euros, a competent CEO in Belgium. The evidence: according to many, Mrs Leroy has a very satisfactory record. I hear the plans of some of us. We believe that Proximus has a societal responsibility. This is typically the kind of public enterprises in which the state must remain involved. I understand that it is the board of directors, and even a subcommittee, that decides the remuneration. Nevertheless, the Belgian State, as its main shareholder, still has its say. For the future, we hope that the dismantling of certain family jewels will cease and that the State will continue to shoulder its responsibility in large companies that do a service to a very large part of the population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic011x.u20	Thank you for these many and various questions. I give the floor, first to the minister and then to Mr. From Clerck.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic011x.u21	Madam President, I will try to do a small roundup of the questions that have been asked to me. I would also like to thank everyone for the very constructive atmosphere. I hope that we have already been able to give some clarity and that our answers will be able to contribute further to this. I'll start by talking about the law of 2015, of which I'm a big fan. It was really time to define precisely the different roles of shareholder, administrator and manager. That is now the case. As such, I have always acted to uphold the corporate governance principle. It's important. From the moment this company has been offered the opportunity to become self-sustaining and to be listed on the stock exchange, it is necessary to confine itself to playing its role as shareholder. Nothing more. The directors who sit there do not work for the state but make decisions in the interest of the company. This is the very basis of corporate governance, which I continue to respect. For me, the next step should be to take over all the state's stakes and inject them into a federal holding company. However, as many of you have pointed out, it is not up to a government in day-to-day business to take this initiative. Still, I leave this option open for the next government and the various parties that will sit around the table to form it. I wanted to stress this first point. Secondly, the government has indeed emphasized I have already explained a number of times in committee that the responsibility for drawing up and implementing the transformation plan lies with the company. But, as we always do in the case of major restructurings, we have asked that social dialogue be initiated on the basis of the principle of minimum lay-offs and that we should then consider how far these talks can take place. I hope that the talks will resume in the coming days and weeks and that they will proceed constructively. If there is one thing that is important, I repeat it, then it is the following. To achieve the common goal of making Proximus a strong and thriving company that remains competitive on the market, the transformation plan is needed. We must also be able to count on a strong workforce, with staff who carry out and implement this strategy and who will see the rewards and effects on the ground. Another aspect was the non-compete clause. I do not think that we, as a government, should take a legal initiative on this issue. Let's get that straight. There are rules on contractual law and they must be respected. It is up to the Governing Board to discuss this further in the near future, with a view to putting together a package containing a number of elements. One of these elements will effectively be the non-compete clause, but there will also be the wage ceiling. In my opinion, the current package certainly offers candidates; however, the search for a new CEO, a new top lady or top lady for that company must be done internationally and widely. At that time one can see who is the best candidate and which package to put together. It seems logical to me that the CEO of a company, like the other members of the management committee, should receive a long-term incentive. After all, a CEO is primarily responsible for the long term of a company. The Management Board therefore has a responsibility to put together a nice and good package. Job description is a task for the Governing Board. I am not going to say anything about that. The division of roles is really very clear. If we do an open search, we will have to look at a number of things. It's about people with a strong profile. They need to manage and coach people and push a company in a certain direction. It concerns people with sufficient financial but also technological skills and marketing competences. That's a very wide package. It is now up to the remuneration committee and the board of directors to receive the applications and to see who will come out best, together with the headhunter, who will be appointed tomorrow by the board of directors. We are in a very competitive and dynamic telecom landscape. That's a fact. Not only are many innovations coming towards us, many investments in new infrastructure need to be made. For a very long time I have been advocating the rapid roll-out of 5G in our country. It is essential to safeguard our economy in the future. It will be up to the next government to define the framework for this, but once again, if corporate governance is clearly respected, then there is also a company that can do so, a company that can invest, move forward and take responsibility, including in society, to eliminate white zones and ensure that there is sufficient competition. As a telecoms minister, we must be vigilant. However, I always hold on to a very strict separation between what a shareholder should do in a company and what the role and responsibilities of directors and managers are. In this respect, I will never deviate one millimeter from that corporate governance.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic011x.u22	Madam Chair, first of all, I would like to thank the minister for his point of view. This provides a clear framework and position for the government. We have read about this legislation, which gives the board responsibility. As chairman of the board of directors, I am not an executive. I am limited to my role as president. We have read this law and are implementing it. It seems to me that this is going in the right direction. We are trying to respond to the government's request with the independent directors and past directors appointed by the government. We are doing our best to manage this business qualitatively. It is also worth recalling the importance of Proximus and its evolution (RTT-Belgacom-Proximus); it is a large Belgian company with a very great responsibility, listed on the stock exchange. This company is very important for the digitalisation of businesses and citizens. Today's debate must take place in this context: the development of the country in its entirety within a competitive framework that is now real. I thank the Minister for that. I also thank those who acknowledge that Dominique Leroy has done her job well. I like to underline that. Indeed, over the past few years, we recorded a new growth in sales, made profits again, added connections and customers and saw an incredible transformation. The company, as Mr Didier Bellens left out at the time, has evolved from a company of pure connectivity to one that provides digital services. Big steps have been taken. In short, a lot of good has happened throughout that period. The fact that attention is now being paid to what is going on at Proximus is also due to the fact that company is a strong Belgian company, which everyone is counting on, and that is a good thing. Dominique Leroy, together with her team and supported by the board of directors, has made a significant contribution to this. I would also point out that, politically speaking, I do not have to interfere with any further developments. The government will have to decide. Of course, we are following what needs to be done in the short term; we cannot wait for politics and we are negotiating with the Minister if necessary. How to proceed in the area of shareholdership, however, is the responsibility of the government. We are now at 53 % assured of a stable shareholder. What the government does with that shareholdership is its responsibility. The law has been amended and also provides that it can go below the limit of 50%. In that sense, several things have already been prepared. The social part of the law has still remained. This means that we still have our own joint committee, of which I am chairman. For the future, we are looking to the government and the negotiations for political decisions. We will take note of these decisions and hopefully continue to evolve in the right direction. Minister, I repeat and support what was stated in the previous coalition agreement. FPIM as a tool to function professionally with the government was in the government agreement. That has not been implemented now, but it would be a sensible way to group government shares within an FPIM. In the developments in corporate governance, ideas like the relationship agreement also emerged. There is an agreement between the large shareholders and the company to define a framework in which the future can evolve at the beginning or at regular intervals. This does not need to be done through daily interference, but is about the direction and manner of consultation. I believe that methods with a professional FPIM on the one hand and companies in which the government has shares on the other are only positive. Those were some preliminary remarks. There are, of course, a lot of points. Of course, like you, we support the roll-out of the 5G network as soon as possible. The market is ready and so are we at Proximus. I come to a few specific questions with different perspectives. Firstly, with the amended law, the members of the board of directors are no longer appointed by a royal decree, but by the board itself. Moreover, there is the mandate system. Dominique Leroy had a six-year mandate. A period of six years is a long period of time for politicians to be familiar with that period of time. But at the end of the mandate the question must be answered as to whether or not the mandate should be extended. Moreover, the renewal of the mandate for a further six years is not equivalent to an indefinite contract. I have noted, also in the discussions with Dominique Leroy, that there is a logic in this matter. At first there was the question of renewing the mandate, but Dominique Leroy finally decided not to go into it. Its mandate normally runs until January, because the principle is that the mandate is fully implemented and not stopped prematurely. By the way, nobody says that Van Gerven, for example, should leave immediately. He may not go directly to another company either. The mandate shall be completed in principle. My first thought is that the mandate function..... is inherent in the mandate system..... for a certain period of time and that a decision has therefore been taken on another time. Secondly, as regards the non-compete clause, Mrs Leroy first told me that she would face another international challenge. That was not new, because she had said before that she would like to face an international challenge in her career. A few days later, she announced it was KPN. Of course, that was surprising. I was thinking more of a challenge in Paris or London. Either way, it's about her choice. At that time, of course, we had a legal, contractual and legal examination of whether or not we could or should respond to it. The contract containing a competitive clause can indeed be invoked. In the event of an appeal, a year's pay must be paid. If we look at the exact nature of the competitive clause, we can see that KPN does not have any activity in this area on the Belgian market. The company used to have activities in this sector, but sold its mobile player in Belgium. It is therefore no longer active in Belgium. Conversely, we are thinking of 5% of meaningful activities in the country she is going to. Proximus has a limited activity in the Netherlands via Telindus. However, that is not a telecom player, but an IT player. In that case too, the contractual provisions do not therefore apply. Legally, therefore, we cannot invoke the terms of competition. That is the legal reality and I believe that everyone should take note of it. Indeed, as the press has said, there have been attempts at rapprochement between the two companies in the past. Mrs Leroy also thought about this and exercises were made about it. Over and over again it has been decided that the creation of value through a merger of both companies or synergy is far too small to justify a merger. So that exercise isn't coming. There will be no attack from the Netherlands tomorrow. I believe that our majority shareholder feels the same way. The government with its 53% share can offer us all the guarantees on this point. Should new legal initiatives be taken on this non-compete clause? I am listening to Parliament and the Minister. Can we provide for other things in contractual terms? It is very difficult to draw up something that takes care of every possible situation. Perhaps that should be considered, but in the file before us we could do nothing but note that it is going to KPN, although it is more or less in our backyard. We wish her every success there. They also asked about the state of the negotiations. On 30 January this year, I was present in Parliament with Mrs Leroy to make a full statement on this matter. The file was formally launched in January at the Board of Directors and is the result of the decisions of October 2018 to implement the shift to digital plan. Our company, Proximus, must, like all other companies, make the leap towards further digitisation. We need to get ahead of that, the customers and the companies are asking that. To offer the best services, we need to be digital top ourselves and have the best digital profiles in the house. That's a necessity. After all, we are a company for digital services. The Minister was right to say that we must make Proximus the best company, the most competitive company, and we must continue to develop Proximus as a Belgian player. It was against that background that those decisions were taken in January, which were explained in this committee on 30 January. You can read the report, which contains the full justification. A first information and consultation round was held, which lasted until June. It is only then that the real negotiations have begun. I understand that in public opinion there is a perception that this is Dominique Leroy's transformation plan. She has worn that as CEO, but it is of course a plan that has been supported by the entire Management Committee, the ExCo, supported by the Management Board. That plan is there and it stays. It is a plan which needs to be further developed, which needs to be further negotiated, with a view to achieving results for the benefit of the company. We must accompany this transformation, including in the field of human resources. We must have a debate on a number of changes in the company, but also on a number of rules that have grown in the past. With the appointment of the mediators, with whom we have immediately agreed, this can now be continued, hopefully in a reasonably short time. I call on everyone, management and, of course, trade unions, to continue looking for a negotiated solution. I know that progress has already been made. The file is not finished, but steps have been taken and adjustments have been made. However, it is not for me to interfere in this. The two mediators now have the task of continuing that conversation. I am confident in it and I hope that the workers and trade unions on the one hand and management on the other hand will be able to reach a meeting, a conclusion, a decision within a reasonable period of time. Trade unions and management have been reunited since the beginning of this week. The methodology to be followed is now being agreed. It has also been agreed not to make any statements about the ongoing talks, because it is in the interests of no one to conduct these negotiations in the press rather than around the table. I hope that we can continue to work on a strong and thriving Proximus by reaching an agreement on the social front as well. I would like to say a few things about the remuneration of the CEO and my statements on that point. The remuneration of the CEO of Proximus is known. It is published transparently in our annual report. That's a legal obligation. The annual report shows in detail, every year, what that person deserves. The CEO today has a fixed wager of 500,000 euros and a bonus, a short term incentive, of 30% of that amount, or 150,000 euros. Insofar as a number of performance criteria are met, this bonus may be awarded. I said something about this in the seventh day, but for the record I would like to clarify that. I replied in the seventh day to the question whether I would look at that wage ceiling that I believe this reference will remain. This is a reference known by everyone. So I never questioned that wage ceiling. Never, not even in an interview. In hindsight it was said: De Clerck pleads for that. I did add that there is a discussion about the long-term incentive. That discussion exists because it has always existed, from day one. When I negotiated the contract with Dominique Leroy at the time, this was already included in the contract. I negotiated this contract with Mr Labille, the Minister responsible at the time. An article was included at the time: "The board can perform an evaluation of the merit of the CEO with respect to long-term value operation. In case of a positive evaluation, the board can perform an evaluation on the merit of the CEO with respect to long-term value creation. In case of a positive evaluation the board can decide to increase the variable fee if, through the approval of the renumeration report, an agreement is reached at the general shareholders meeting, preceding such a decision." It could therefore, it is foreseen, be subject to the adoption of a remuneration report and a decision of the general meeting. In the past, under the previous government, that was also discussed, and it was decided not to put it to the vote, but it is therefore contained in the contract. When discussing the extension of its mandate, Dominique Leroy called on that contractual long-term incentive. It was not granted in its current mandate, but it asked for a solution for the future. We have consulted on this. On the board of directors, we decided that we could meet this later, but not now. That long-term incentive exists for all other members of the Management Committee, but not for the CEO. A long-term incentive scheme applies in almost all listed companies. Its specific purpose is to keep a long-term manager in service, in retention. There are arguments, elements, a contribution for the manager that stays longer, because that manager thus works on the company's long-term values. So there's a logic behind that. It is a consistent market practice within all companies and that practice has always existed within Proximus. The only person for whom the provision did not apply was Dominique Leroy. Although according to her contract it was possible to add, that did not happen. She did ask now, and that is what we negotiated. That is why I stated in the Seventh Day that this is a point of discussion. After all, new CEO candidates will ask Proximus for a long-term incentive; at least that is what I suspect, because this arrangement is used very often. In doing so, I have clarified why I spoke about this and in that sense I used the term 'pay handicap'. It may be a handicap if we are unable to offer market-based conditions to candidate CEOs. I would like to hear the reservations about the wage ceiling. I never questioned the 500,000 plus 150,000 euros. I have negotiated this with you, and I think it is a good reference. Recently, however, I obtained information about current practices and fees from Professor Baeten, expert on remuneration for CEOs. I find that Proximus is dangling at the bottom of the BEL 20 in that area. We're one of the only ones who don't pay for long-term incentive. The fees in other companies are higher. This does not necessarily mean that we will not find a CEO, but it means that much higher fees are paid elsewhere. We work in a particular market; that is a context that we must take into account. Of course we want the best. We want a good CEO, because a good CEO is incredibly important for the company. A good CEO probably costs more than a bad one. We must look for people with the necessary qualities to run the business. We are considerably lower in wage standards. With the telcos in our environment, the amounts are infinitely higher. Deutsche Telekom is worth 6.8 million, BT 4.7 million, KPN 2.5 million and Orange 1.9 million. I am not saying that we have to pay such amounts, our standard remains our standard. However, I would like to explain that we are playing in a context. If we want someone with top experience from the world of telco, we sometimes face other amounts. To sum up, the reference on remuneration is known. The only point of discussion in the past, and perhaps in the future, is the long-term incentive. I note that the government and the Minister are also taking a position on this. This may create opportunities, but this will have to be finalised by the Governing Board in the framework of the negotiations. Now I come to the profile of the new CEO and the procedure. Tomorrow, the board of directors will meet. In the search for the right man or woman for the function of CEO of Proximus there are some elements important. First of all, we will start an open procedure. In other words, an agency will be appointed and candidates can be searched for in an open manner. The names of all candidates who have already checked in will be passed on to the Bureau. The Bureau will carry out an analysis and draw up a longlist, from which a first selection will in principle be made. The remuneration committee and the Management Board will then decide on this. This procedure will be discussed by the Governing Board tomorrow. The agency will be designated on the basis of tenders received last night. We have to make a choice and then create a profile for the Bureau. We hope to be able to carry out an initial analysis at the October Management Board meeting and to draw up a more limited list of eligible persons. The profile can be both Belgian and international. We are open to this; that seems to me to be normal. Secondly, we do not impose language requirements because we want to get the best possible candidates. We do, of course, impose language requirements in the sense that we ask for knowledge of English and of one of the two national languages. We are also asking for a willingness to learn to speak the other language of the country. We are asking for a commitment in this area. Those elements of the profile will be finished tomorrow. Of course, the qualitative elements will emerge. This is done on the basis of three basic elements. First, we look at the qualities of the person, his experience, knowledge and curriculum. Secondly, we assess the availability to be a people manager in a large company, to conduct negotiations and to see how a business culture is developed. Such aspects have to do with the human side and the organisation of the enterprise. It must be a leader, a team player and a communicator with a pronounced ethics. Thirdly, there is, of course, the aspect of telco. It is a listed company in the telecoms sector which, of course, pays great attention to technology and innovation. We are dealing with the latest technologies and the candidate must therefore have a vision of this very complex world, in which we face competition not only in the immediate environment, but also in the GAFA, American and Chinese technological developments. So it has to be someone who can develop a vision on this. Finally, he must be able to put the Belgian customer and the Belgian company at the heart of his approach. It is a broad approach and vision that must be finalized tomorrow. I have here elements that will be laid down tomorrow in documents that will be finalised by the Governing Board. In the meantime there was indeed an interim-CEO, namely Sandrine Dufour. Sandrine Dufour has been working in the company as CFO for several years. She knows a lot of the files. There are important files on the table. For example, you may have heard recently about cooperation between Orange and Proximus on mobile infrastructure. A strategic board of directors is planned in October, with Mrs Dufour also being involved. She knows the company well, she can ensure continuity, there is trust from the board of directors. With the support of the Management Committee, the ExCo, and the Management Board, we must give her every opportunity to make progress. In connection with the social dialogue, Jan Van Acoleyen, the HR manager, initially takes up his responsibility. He is, of course, reconnecting with the Management Committee and the Management Board, according to the normal way of working. Mr Van Acoleyen will therefore conduct the negotiations and talks, but never solo, it must of course be supported by the rest of the structure. Mrs Sandrine Dufour has the margin of manoeuvre to defend the interests of Proximus. I have answered most of the questions. Madam President, I remain available to answer further questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic011x.u23	Thank you, Minister and Mr. President. There were many questions. Views were expressed. Members who wish to make a short reply are invited to indicate this. I shall return to the order of the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic011x.u24	Madam President, I find it rather chastising how the CEO who goes to the competition is accused here. That is a blow to the face of the many Proximus employees. Just yesterday, the Proximus employees received a letter saying that they can congratulate the CEO. That is not a good basis for starting negotiations. Proximus, in which the government is still a majority shareholder, has a great responsibility towards its 12,000 employees, who have to provide a good service. A number of people have already mentioned that Proximus ensures access to the network in every corner of our country, from the Westhoek to the Ardennes. It is very important that that is preserved. Proximus has to keep doing that. That is why we consider the preservation of workers and the provision of services to be very important for the future and ask for investment so that Proximus can continue to provide a good service in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic011x.u25	Thank you, gentlemen, for your explanation. I generally hear a lot of positive things about Mrs Leroy in committee. I would just like to point out that Mrs Leroy herself is in favour of maintaining the government as an important player within Proximus. The company runs with a wage cap and with the involvement of the government, so I find it absurd that all of this is suddenly questioned. Mr De Clerck himself said that Mrs Leroy had seriously considered staying with Proximus and extending her mandate. The discussion on the wage ceiling is therefore perhaps somewhat exaggerated. I would just like to talk briefly about the reforms at Proximus. I wonder if, if these reforms lead to redundancies, the board itself can make some effort: can the board do it with fewer directors or are other efforts possible? I understand, however, that the ceiling on wages is being called into question, but today the CEO earns 13 times more than the average employee. We would ask you to look at the wage tension and come to a compromise on this. If the CEO wishes to earn more, the pay pressure should also be charged and employees should also be given a premium. That might be a good outcome. Finally, I continue to have the impression that the whole process may have been too much in the press and, as a result, a bit amateurish. In fact, I have not yet received an answer to the question as to whether the Governing Board has already met. You mentioned tomorrow, but has there been a meeting since the announcement of Mrs Leroy's departure?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic011x.u26	Gentlemen, thank you, even though we have not yet received all the answers. I understand that some answers cannot be given today. We will, of course, be following closely the evolution of this transformation plan. We are fully aware that digital turning is important. We are neither deaf nor blind. That a company has to change, we can quite understand it, but it cannot be done on the back of workers. It's fundamental. That functions need to be renewed is one thing. On the other hand, putting people at the door – to put it bluntly – for that reason, it is not acceptable. You gave some details about the profile. As far as pay is concerned, we have been extremely clear. There is no question of changing this ceiling. Finally, Minister, I would like to ask you a final, more specific question. As you know, the government had the opportunity to privatize public autonomous enterprises (bpost, Proximus) via royal decree only. But this possibility was extinguished, at the end of last year, on December 31, 2018. Does the current government in day-to-day affairs intend to resubmit a text on this subject? I ask you this question because he had intended to do so at some point. Or do you intend to leave the situation as it stands today, that is, in the hands of a future government? This is important because it means that today – we welcome it – there is no capacity, via simple royal decree, to privatize Proximus or bpost.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic011x.u27	I can answer you directly: no! As we're in business, we're not going to do it. But that's a good idea for the next government.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic011x.u28	Gentlemen, I have listened very carefully to your answers. There are two things I remember and one question I really want to ask you. At first I listened very carefully to the Minister who said that it is important for him that the roles are well defined, that we know well what governance is and what the role of the government is. We can only support that. However, I do think, and I would like to emphasise this, that the Ecolo Green Group considers it very important at the moment that we retain the majority stake in Proximus, so that, as you have rightly pointed out, we keep a close eye on the strategic vision and ensure that we can steer it in the right direction. Secondly, I have also listened carefully to your intervention on the transformation plan. What pleased me very much was to be able to see in both of the gentlemen's answers that those workers are also incredibly important to them and that it is also very important for you that it is not on the workers' heels that we will implement the transformation plan. I also hope that this will continue to be the case in the future and that we will be able to remove the concerns of the workers, because they really are. Thirdly, I would like to talk about the wage ceiling. I heard you say you're looking for the best CEO. I think we all wish that for this public undertaking. I only hope that we can look for a CEO who not only considers that wage to be very important, but finds a lot of other challenges in that company. I would therefore urge you both to speak of a package that should be attractive enough for the CEO, that there should be sufficient incentives in that package other than a wage. This can only provide a very well-functioning company.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic011x.u29	I have noted today that a number of parties continue to focus very hard on that wage. That is important, of course, but let us not forget that we operate in a free market and that there are many other things that matter, not just pay. All citizens of the country must also be able to enjoy a good service. 12,000 people have a job at the company. Let us also remember that in the past six years, during Mrs Leroy's 'legislature', Proximus has paid dividends to the Belgian state of more than EUR 1 billion. Isn't it important to ask ourselves whether we would rather have someone who would have to pay us a little less pay, but no more high dividends, which means that we should tell all citizens that taxes should be increased slightly? I don't think so. Even if I were to follow the logic of some people in this Chamber, we would be heading in the direction of Cuba. There a subscription costs thirty dollars, which is equivalent to a monthly wage. Of course, we don't want to. As far as further privatisation is concerned, the Minister and also the N-VA prefer it. We can see that in countries with a strong private market, such as Switzerland or Denmark, services to citizens are much better and that in countries where telecom companies are more free, the World Happiness Index is broadly higher. All these things are connected. I come to a question to which you have not yet answered. When did Mrs. Leroy's date of departure change? Is that what happened under pressure from someone? Did she make that decision or did the board ask her to leave a little faster? You also referred to a study by Professor Baeten. Is that a public study? If so, can we look at it or can it be made available to the committee? I understand that we are not specifically looking for a Fleming or a Waal and that what is in the press is wrong about that. It doesn't matter who manages the board and delivers the CEO. Finally, will the decision to appoint a new CEO be taken by the company itself or by politics? For us, it is quite clear that the Governing Board must be given a mandate by the politicians to make that decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic011x.u30	Mr President, in your answers, the notions of general interest and public service are absent. We are not surprised because this role is vested in the government. However, this government decided that the only market would lead Proximus' future. We will therefore follow with great attention the social negotiations and the selection procedure for the new managing director.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic011x.u31	Mr. De Backer wants to increase corporate governance. If I understand correctly, he wants to give full powers to the board of directors. [[My group is totally against this method because it will be the shareholders who will decide on the board of directors.]] The shareholder's role is not to do a service – it could be – but to make as many profits as possible, whatever the price! I myself am a victim of what can be called a stock market dismissal, so I know what I'm talking about. Giving full powers to a board of directors whose sole purpose is to make profit, we are against it! The majority of this company is owned by the State. It's Belgian money! And we want to give it to private people so they can make even more profits. The role of the state is to provide a service to people who pay to have this service, even in areas that are unprofitable.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic011x.u32	Minister, I find it difficult to accept the fact that power must be entirely in the hands of the private sector. I trust the Chairman of the Board of Directors and hope that the services will be properly developed. The CDH opposes any sale of the shares of the State. This is the only possibility we still have in order to exert pressure. Minister, what would you do if you lived in low-density areas where you are not sufficiently covered by the services? The government must have the means of action and pressure to ensure that the entire population can benefit from the same services. It is not normal for people in low-density areas to be deprived of this high-speed service, at a time when more and more businesses are pushing citizens to telework. Thank you and I look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic011x.u33	I don't think there's any contradiction between the two. I have always been in favour of the elimination of white areas throughout Belgium. This can be done with a legal framework in which private companies act and reflect on how to proceed. To eliminate white areas, a majority state shareholding in one of the telecom companies is not necessary. We have one now and yet white areas remain. I am a great supporter of your plea for the elimination of white areas throughout the national territory. Initiatives have already been taken in this direction. But on the other hand, several steps remain and the first is to group all the shares held by the Belgian State into a federal holding company in order to be able to make different decisions taking into account the market. The next government will have something to do about it. I can reply briefly to Mr Freilich's question. A minister also does his homework. So we contacted Professor Baeten. I'll send you the contact details. The study is not public, but you can contact him directly to obtain the same additional information.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic011x.u34	I still have some answers. When did the board meet? The board was consulted by telephone on Thursday 5 September 2019. There was then a meeting of the Board of Directors on Saturday before 14 September 2019. There was a meeting of the remuneration committee on Thursday 12 September 2019. So there have been several meetings. The board of directors has indeed come together and will meet again tomorrow, September 19, 2019. There was also the question of when the date changed under Domnique Leroy. Initially, the initial discussion was based on the idea that the current mandate would be terminated and that there would be no new mandate. It has been suggested that 1 December 2019 would be a better date, as this would have left a few weeks to deal with some files. In the meantime, new elements have been added, such as syndicated positions, media articles, FSMA actions and other discussions. As a result, the remuneration committee wondered whether this was the best method. This was discussed at the remuneration committee and in the presence of Dominique Leroy. Following that, she had internal debates and discussions, which made it clear on Saturday 14 September 2019 that it was perhaps best for everyone, also in the interests of the company, to stop the cooperation. The importance of the company has constantly emerged. It is in the company's interest that the cooperation ends next Friday 20 September 2019. The discussions have therefore evolved, constantly in consultation with Mrs Leroy. It is therefore in common agreement that we have concluded the matter. Mr Arens, my dear colleague from the past, I understand your concerns about the coverage and I take note of it. Of course, the general interest still counts within Proximus, whether on the board of directors, on the management committee, in management and for all staff. I think there is really a great deal of sensitivity to this subject. This means, among other things, that this coverage is of great importance and that there are ongoing commitments. Following discussions and conflicts, we reached an agreement with the Walloon government for additional investments throughout Wallonia. Meanwhile, there is also the Proximus-Orange file, which has led to an increase in coverage everywhere, also in Wallonia. Efforts are therefore being made to further increase coverage, which in principle is almost to the maximum. But there are always some exceptions. I take note of all this, and of the commitment for all those who have problems on this point. It is not my executive responsibility, but I know that management is dealing with this issue. I think that is the most important thing. It is now up to the board of directors to take the necessary decisions, taking into account, of course, the principles of corporate governance in force. We will communicate about this in due course.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic011x.u35	We come to the end of this commission dedicated to the future of Proximus. Were all the questions asked?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic011x.u36	Since we found out Dominique Leroy is leaving, 14 days have passed. The crucial point is that it is a company of more than EUR 8 billion, of which the Belgian State owns more than half, more than EUR 4 billion. That is why we have this exchange of views. As far as communications are concerned, you're pointing to the media, but I'm pointing to communications from the company. It went very messy and had an impact on the stock market value. I just want to understand you. You say that Dominique Leroy indicated on 27 August that she had doubts as to whether she would stay. The first meeting of the board was on Saturday 14 September. That's what you just said.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic011x.u37	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic011x.u38	On August 27th there was doubt. On September 2, she reported that she was leaving. On September 5th, the board of directors was called to hear. After that, there was a communication that she would stay until 1 December. Did the board decide on Saturday that all previous communications were wrong and that it should go on 20 September? That's a mess, isn't it? It is a listed company, of which the Belgian State is a 53 percent shareholder. Surely it cannot be that the CEO, who was negotiated with, indicated on 27 August that she would not stay and that there would be all kinds of discussions in the media? Those discussions were also about the wage ceiling, on which you said you did not indicate that it should be increased, while on television you replied literally to the question whether it should be raised: "Yes, I think so."
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic011x.u39	No, I didn't say that. Please include your verbatim report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic011x.u40	I've just been listening to it again. I read it to you: "I think so, yes." That was your answer. All that communication had an impact on the company. What we need above all is stability. There's a board of 14 members. For the majority of them, the mandate ends this year, or is over. You say that they will have to ensure continuity. I have the impression it's all going very messy. I do not know what can guarantee that this will be professional in the future, and this is a message to tomorrow's board. A company that is currently worth about 8.5 billion could be expected to go well at such a critical moment. I do not agree with Mr Freilich's rather chordy speech. It's something weird. It is a company with a majority shareholding in the State and a wage ceiling of EUR 650,000. All the statements by the liberal side stated that the company is well run, that the figures are better. Mr Freilich, you want to raise the wage ceiling and remove the State's majority shareholding. It's going well, and you want to do the opposite? That is why it is important to put that corporate governance on track and to communicate professionally at such difficult times.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic011x.u41	You say that I said yes with regard to the increase. That's not in my line. I'll give it to you later. I said reference remains. So you must quote correctly. In connection with communication, we're also listed on the market. This means that we cannot communicate at any time, at any time On 27 August I told you in all transparency that I was informed informally that it was coming. I formally contacted all the drivers immediately. They all gave me the same message, in particular that they were surprised, that Mrs Leroy had done a good job and that they agreed that Mrs Leroy would stay until 1 December. Afterwards new facts came, which we did not communicate, which came from outside and which, of course, got meaning in the media, comments, political views etc. I met with the drivers on Monday and Thursday. Eventually, on Saturday, I called the board of directors to tell them what the best attitude is. This has happened with the communication that suits a listed company, where no matter when or anything can be communicated. I think I helped with this in a pretty good way. It has evolved in the meantime, a cocktail of elements has been added.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic011x.u42	I will conclude our work. The different views were expressed. We had an inventory, a photograph of the situation. So everyone will take on their responsibilities. Thank you.
