ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1057x.u1	I will review the questionnaire to see which colleagues are present to ask their questions. Mr Van Peteghem, it is your day! You score here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1057x.u2	Mr President, I am glad that you have been so positive about me today. That is probably because we are no longer direct competitors in the forthcoming elections. Minister, in a resolution of the 2016 Human Rights Council, Belgium asked for the creation of a UN database of companies active in Israeli settlements. You also stated this in committee on 17 October 2018. Meanwhile, the screening of companies was finalized and the database is ready for publication. However, UN Commissioner Bachelet is under heavy pressure not to publish the database or to postpone publication again. My questions are as follows. Firstly, are you prepared to make a bilateral demarche to the UN Human Rights Commissioner in the next few weeks and call on her to publish the database before 18 March 2019? If not, for what specific reasons? How can such an attitude be consistent with our statement of support to the database in October 2018? Secondly, do you see the publication of the UN database as a concrete operationalisation of UN Security Council Resolution 2334? If not, for what specific reasons? What other steps do you see in the future to further operationalise this resolution? Thirdly, what interpretation do you give to the UN database, on the one hand, and the European directive on the labelling of settlement companies, on the other? Fourthly, what concrete action are you planning in 2019 against the ever more intensive Israeli actions to wipe out the Green Line?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1057x.u3	Mr President, Minister, the UN Resolution 2334 of 2016 calls for countries to make a clear distinction between Israel itself and the occupied territories in their contacts with Israel. This principle of differentiation has also been acquired at European level, inter alia through the mandatory origin labelling of products originating from illegal Israeli settlements. In 2016, the UN Commission for Human Rights was commissioned by the Human Rights Council, with the support of Belgium, to establish a database of companies active in the Israeli settlements. This database is ready by now. However, High Commissioner Bachelet is under heavy pressure, including Israel and the US, not to publish the list. However, the publication is essential in order to achieve an effective economic differentiation policy. There is talk of postponing the publication of the list. I come to my questions. You stated earlier to support the principle of the database, and its formatting. Is that still the case? Are you in favour of the publication of the database? Will you speak directly to the Commissioner not to give in to the pressure and still publish the database? Will our country, during the debate in the Human Rights Council, take the floor on 18 March and make a clear plea for the publication of the database?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1057x.u4	Mr President, Minister, on 17 October 2018, in response to my question No. 27259, you stated that Belgium was in favour of the establishment of a United Nations database on enterprises active in Israeli settlements. Meanwhile, the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) has completed the corporate screening and the database is ready for publication. However, High Commissioner Bachelet was under considerable pressure not to publish the database or to postpone publication again. This is in the context of the intensification of violations of international humanitarian and human rights rights by Israel, some of which could even constitute war crimes or crimes against humanity, as has just been mentioned by a UN commission. Minister, are you ready to take a step with the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights in the coming weeks, asking the UN High Commissioner to publish the database before March 18, 2019? If not, for what specific reasons and how would such an attitude be compatible with your statement of support expressed on 17 October 2018? Do you consider the publication of the United Nations database as a practical implementation of United Nations Security Council resolution 2334? If not, what specific reasons and other measures do you see in the future to make this Security Council resolution more operational? Do you consider that the United Nations database follows the same logic as the European interpretative notice on the labelling of colonial products? If not, for what specific reasons? What concrete measures do you intend to take – quickly – against Israel's increasingly intensive actions to eliminate the Green Line?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1057x.u5	Mr. President, Minister, in March 2016, in its resolution 3136, the United Nations Human Rights Council mandated OHCHR to produce and publish a database on the participation of private companies in the economy of Israeli settlements. The database was originally due to be presented to the Human Rights Council in March 2017. In October 2018, you confirmed that Belgium was in favour of such a database. However, in recent months, the High Commissioner appears to have been under strong pressure from the United States and Israel not to publish the database, thus preventing the implementation of resolution 3136. Mr Minister, since Belgium is an ardent defender of multilateralism and human rights, what steps will you take in the short term to ensure that the resolution is implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1057x.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the United Nations database on companies involved in certain activities in Israeli settlements has aroused great interest in this House because we have already returned to it several times, which is perfectly understandable in view of the danger that colonization poses to the prospects of achieving a just, lasting and comprehensive peace. As I have already pointed out many times here, settlement policy violates international law and Israel's obligations as an occupying force. The continuation of colonization in the West Bank, including East Jerusalem, also left empty the option of a two-State solution that was the only one to reach consensus at the international level. This position of Belgium is strongly reiterated at all levels, including in the United Nations Security Council, in the monthly discussions on the Middle East peace process. On 26 March, Nickolay Mladenov, Special Coordinator for the Middle East Peace Process, will present his report on the implementation of resolution 2334. Belgium joined an initiative calling for a regular written report on resolution 2334, so that the members of the Security Council could rely on a substantial report during the discussions. Resolution 2334, which called for the cessation of colonization, was also very clear on the requirement of differentiation, since it called, in paragraph 5, for States to distinguish, in their exchanges, between the territory of the State of Israel and the territories occupied since 1967. This distinction is the basis of Belgium's policy of differentiation. As I have repeatedly said before this committee, this policy of differentiation between the occupied territories and Israel is not intended to introduce boycotts or sanctions. I have also discussed on several occasions the European measures adopted to help define this policy of differentiation, in particular the territorial clause in 2012 and the interpretative communication of 2015 on the indication of the origin of goods from the territories occupied by Israel since June 1967. I now come to the United Nations database of companies involved in certain activities in Israeli settlements. This database is part of the mandate entrusted to the High Commissioner for Human Rights by Resolution 3136 of the Human Rights Council, adopted in March 2016. Resolution 3136 precedes Security Council Resolution 2334, which was adopted several months later, in December 2016, and therefore logically does not refer to it. Belgium supports the High Commissioner in the implementation of the mandate of the Human Rights Council. With regard to the publication of the database, I would like to stress that this decision belongs to the High Commissioner and that Belgium attaches importance to respect for the independence of the High Commissioner in this task. The High Commissioner recently confirmed her intention to complete the mandate entrusted to her by Resolution 3136. It also considers that this dossier requires further in-depth examination. Belgium respects this attitude. The Belgian Permanent Representative in Geneva will, of course, continue to monitor this matter closely, in close consultation with our European partners. I can confirm, as I have already said, that as far as Belgium is concerned, we are in favour of publication and we have already informed the High Commissioner. We are fully available to let him know, while respecting his independence, that we all ask for respect on many other occasions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1057x.u7	Minister, thank you for your answer. On the first part of the resolution on the boycott and sanctions against Israel, I would just like to note the disagreement that we have already noted. On the other hand, on the basis of the data itself, which was the main subject of our questions, I note that when I ask you whether you are prepared to take a step with the High Commissioner in favour of this publication, you reply that you respect its independence. No steps are therefore being taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1057x.u8	Mr President, this is not tradition, but I have just spoken. It may not be worth coming and answering! I have just made it clear that, as I had already said, Belgium is in favour of publication, that we have already informed the High Commissioner and that I have no problem with the fact that we are still informing her through our representation! How should I speak so that Mr. Van Hees ever agree to hear my answers? I just said it. I don't know if there's a recording; we could listen to it. What is the point of responding?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1057x.u9	I conclude that you are using a formulation at this diplomatic point that things are not clear! You tell us that you respect his independence. I interpret this in another way. We will remain on our respective interpretations.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1057x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You have illustrated the position Belgium has been taking for some time. Our country has also played a leading role in a number of areas, albeit not all of them. If you say that we respect the independence of the High Commissioner, then you must note that other countries may not. They may be exerting pressure to postpone the publication of the database. Perhaps then we should respond to the pressure of those countries which do not respect autonomy. Perhaps the meeting of 18 March could be a forum to convey this concern. Our country supports the policy of differentiation, and so do you and almost every party and group in Parliament. After all, it is an important lever to change that. The publication of the database is, of course, essential for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1057x.u11	Mr Minister, I stress that this publication is essential and that, in this context, all means of pressure are undoubtedly good. I know that, in other cases, Belgium, sometimes with other countries, is trying to take the lead and change certain positions. It is to be hoped that, in this case too, it will show real voluntarism in order to bring about a positive change in this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1057x.u12	Minister, two years after the suspension of the highly controversial Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership, the Member States and the European Commission are preparing a new trade agreement with the United States. According to documents obtained by the Industrial Europe Observatory, business lobbyists dominate the preparation of negotiations to the detriment of public interest groups such as professional unions, environmental or consumer groups. On 18 January 2019, the Commission forwarded to the Council two draft negotiating mandates for this TTIP 2.0. On 19 February, the European Parliament's Committee on International Trade gave the green light to these mandates by means of a resolution. In March, MEPs are expected to vote in plenary session. For its part, the Council of Ministers of the European Union discussed these terms of reference at an informal meeting of Trade Ministers in February. Finally, the Foreign Affairs Council of 18 March and the European Summit of 21 and 22 March should also consider this point. In addition to the fact that the United States has emerged from the Paris climate agreement, the revival of the negotiating ambitions of a TTIP – it was a mini-TTIP – calls for further action. As the TTIP has been the subject of massive opposition from the public, civil society and parliamentarians, the key elements of the negotiations envisaged here contain something to revive this opposition: regulatory cooperation – which would mean that food standards and other regulations in the public interest could, to a large extent, be established by businessmen and other commercial experts behind closed doors, imports of controversial American products such as gas obtained by fragmentation, GMOs, Bayer-Monsanto seeds and I pass by. Mr Minister, according to the press, Belgium would not be in the camp of countries in a hurry to grant this negotiating mandate. What position was taken by Belgium at the Council of European Trade Ministers? More generally, does Belgium support the negotiation of a TTIP 2.0 on the basis of the mandate prepared by the Commission? Otherwise, in what sense do you intend to try to influence the situation? If negotiations were to take place, would Belgium support the request of MEPs to include a full process of civil society consultation and an impact assessment on sustainable development before the opening of negotiations? Do the current TTIP trades provide for arbitration mechanisms? Are binding social and environmental clauses envisaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1057x.u13	Mrs Waterschoot, thank you for your question and confirm that the TTIP negotiations were suspended in 2016. Neither a TTIP 2.0 nor a relaunch of these negotiations can therefore be mentioned. As I indicated recently, in the context of existing trade tensions, de-escalation efforts and given the importance of the United States as a trading partner of the European Union, Presidents Juncker and Trump agreed on 25 July 2018 to discuss certain trade issues. Thus, work has been initiated in a transparent manner on regulatory cooperation in areas of interest to both parties and in compliance with the laws of both parties. In this context, on 18 January, the Commission proposed texts of negotiating directives for certain aspects of conformity assessment aimed at facilitating our trade without compromising our standards and for tariff negotiations on industrial goods. These proposals for texts are public and are still the subject of discussions in the Council of Member States. At the Informal Council of Foreign Ministers in Trade formation on 22 February 2019, the Belgian coordinated position was as follows: support in principle for these sectoral and specific negotiations and a request to carry out a sustainable impact assessment. Belgium also successfully stressed the need to take into account the withdrawal of the United States from the Paris Agreement and to consult civil society. Responding to our call, as well as that of other Member States, the European Commission launched a wide-ranging public consultation on 8 March via the DG Trade website. The negotiations envisaged are highly different from those of the TTIP, in particular in terms of their scope. With regard to a sectoral discussion on tariffs, no investment arbitration mechanism is foreseen. The same applies to the aspects of sustainable development. However, I have proposed that Commissioner Cecilia Malmström organise regular dialogue with the United States and exchange of information and best practices on trade and sustainable development elements in free trade agreements. As a reminder, the United States incorporates ambitious chapters on environmental and social clauses, containing binding standards in its own agreements. Synergies could be developed in the margins of the current negotiations. Such exchanges would thus form a kind of axis of additional cooperation. In conclusion, I would like to point out that these are limited negotiations within the framework of a large and complex existing relationship and in compliance with the rules of the World Trade Organisation. For more details on the content of what is in progress and on the consultation, I invite you to consult the DG Trade website.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1057x.u14	Minister, thank you for your answers. I welcome a generally positive position which has been defended in terms of consultation with citizens and which contains a sustainable impact assessment. I do not believe that you have made it clear that it must be a prerequisite for the negotiation of these agreements. We seem to agree with the inclusion of the Paris Agreement and the exit of the United States from it. But how will this be taken into account? We don't know! I was not informed of the consultation launched on March 8. So I'm going to check it out. But according to the NGOs, who are well informed, this would be a TTIP 2.0. On 18 February, 100 European NGOs and civil society groups called on Member States to reject these mandates. In a few weeks, half a million citizens signed this request. If it's as white as what you're announcing here, how is it that the associations that work closely on these files don't perceive this "mouse"?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1057x.u15	Mr President, Minister, organized next month, the Commission on Narcotic Drugs is the main decision-making body within the United Nations for drug control. While important debates are taking place at the moment, our country would not be represented, if we believe that a debate on this subject was held in the COCOF Parliament with the Minister of Health at the Brussels level. Minister, can you tell me, at the federal level, what has been the timetable for consultation with the federated entities in this framework? When were they invited to attend a meeting of the CoorMulti? Have the federated entities been able to express their position? If so, what were they? If not, why? When and by whom was the Belgian position fixed? Why will Belgium not send a minister to the ministerial session? Will she still be represented?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1057x.u16	Mr President, Mrs Grovonius, a CoorMulti meeting to set out Belgium's positions at the 62nd session of the Commission on Narcotic Drugs was held on Thursday, 7 March, in accordance with current practice in areas of joint competence. This meeting followed the meeting held on 7 January, which outlined the first contours of Belgian positioning. The agenda of the two meetings included the question of Belgium's representation, in particular at the ministerial segment to be held on 14 and 15 March. The invitation for coordination of 7 March was sent by the CoorMulti Secretariat to all relevant federal and federal stakeholders on 26 February 2019. The invitation to the January 7 meeting was sent on December 21, 2018. Like the other participants, the federated entities represented at the CoorMulti meeting had the opportunity to participate in the collective discussion leading to a Belgian position on the various agenda items. The conclusions of the discussions were reflected in the minutes of that meeting, which would serve as an instruction for the Belgian delegation. Since none of the ministers responsible for narcotics matters had expressed their intention to participate in the ministerial part of the next Commission on Narcotic Drugs, CoorMulti agreed that Belgium would be represented by the Belgian Ambassador and Permanent Representative to the international organizations in Vienna. I think it's pretty clear about this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1057x.u17	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1057x.u18	Minister, the Syrian civil war has been raging for eight years. It is too early to talk about a large-scale post-war reconstruction, but the first steps towards reconstruction should, where possible, be possible now. What concrete initiatives will Belgium take or support in the coming weeks with the European Union, the UN Security Council and the International Coalition against IS to de-escalate the situation in Northeast Syria? Can you distinguish between measures in the areas of diplomacy, humanitarian aid and reconstruction efforts? Can you also give a detailed overview of all Belgian efforts in Northeast Syria? Are you in favour of extending the geographical scope of the EU Trust Fund for Syria to projects in Syria itself? If so, what concrete initiatives will you take in the coming weeks and months? Are you planning an additional humanitarian effort at the forthcoming Syria conference? If so, how much money is involved? What initiatives will you take and support at the forthcoming Syria conference to increase concrete support for Syrian civil society on the ground? Is your department planning to finance peace-building projects in Syria in 2019? If so, how much money will be released for this purpose? Will you announce an additional effort at the conference to support the UN Evidence Bank for violations of international law? If so, how much money is involved?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1057x.u19	Mr van Peteghem, the announcement by the United States to withdraw its troops from the northeast of Syria was indeed threatening the fragile balance in the region. Meanwhile, the US has changed its decision and decided to remain on the ground as well as in the airspace. It's a good thing. However, we must continue to ensure that the situation does not escalate. The US is therefore also asking its partners to do some of the work. My services are currently examining a number of projects specifically focused on the stabilisation of the northeast. However, because the government is in business, there are budgetary constraints. In addition, Belgium, of course, provides for a significant contribution to humanitarian aid, some of which is also used for the north-east. Furthermore, as a penholder of humanitarian affairs in the UN Security Council, Belgium pays particular attention to the humanitarian situation in Syria. The European Union also has a number of funding mechanisms that are used for the stabilisation projects. The European Neighbourhood Instrument has recently approved a project worth EUR 18 million for the north-east of Syria. Belgium is in favour of examining the possibility of the Madad Fund financing projects within Syria. The Belgian representative on the management board of the Madadfonds has defended that position on several occasions. However, it is important that EU funds are used in the most efficient way and that there are no unwanted political consequences. At the Brussels III conference on 14 March, I will announce a new humanitarian contribution of EUR 23.6 million. This is a provisional contribution for 2019, given the government's budgetary constraints in current cases. Belgium has always attached great importance to the role of Syrian civil society, both in the political process and in a future democratic Syria. In the margins of the Brussels III Conference, I will, together with the High Representative Mogherini, host a dinner at the Egmont Palace for Syrian women who can play an important role in the political process in Syria. I usually have to go there tonight. My services are indeed investigating the possibility of financing peace-building projects in Syria in 2019. The project applications are still being examined. Belgium has already contributed twice and is considering whether a new contribution can be made in 2019. With our total contribution of USD 1 million and EUR 500 000, our country is one of the largest donors of that mechanism in Syria.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1057x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. It is indeed a good thing that the US has redirected its efforts in Syria, but it will be important to ensure a further de-escalation. We must ensure that the situation does not escalate again. It is good that our country is making the necessary efforts and resources. I can only hope that we will be able to make further efforts in the future, even after the current period.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1057x.u21	Mr President, Minister, on 26 February I tabled a question and this morning I received the information requested, for which I thank you. However, I have not yet been able to go through it; before that it was a little too short a day. Reforms on B-FAST have already been launched. My question was whether all the necessary reports had been drawn up and whether everything had already arrived. So I've received that information. When will Parliament have access to all the reports? What are the results of the reports? Can B-FAST still function as an independent organisation or is it desirable for it to be incorporated into a broader whole? Where are the problems with the reform of B-FAST? I am asking this question because the file has been dragging on with the administration for so long.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1057x.u22	Mr President, Mrs Bellens, I can confirm that all the checks on the operation of B-FAST have been completed. The reform of the structure is now continuing at the technical level of the planning committee. The reports were sent to Parliament together with an accompanying note. It is up to the political level to debate the functioning of B-FAST and the future framework. These reports will certainly provide a basis for the debate. It has been found, inter alia, on the basis of the audits, that the reform of B-FAST requires a nuanced approach. I propose that a debate be held as soon as possible after the elections, not only on the various audits and the measures taken but also on the future of such an organisation. I believe that all the documents have now been made available to the Members of Parliament. It may be useful not only to read them, but also to move towards a new vision for the next legislature. However, in current cases no debate can be held on the future of B-FAST.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1057x.u23	Minister, that was always my group's question. Measuring is knowing. Once all checks are available, it is possible to check where it is desirable, useful and efficient to make changes. I know that some groups have always thought that the underlying aim of our group was to close the case. That is not the case. I've been constructive over the past few years. I have waited three years for the results of the reports and today they are here. Mr Minister, I certainly find your proposal which you made last time in reply to my question and which you are repeating today to organise a debate on this subject interesting. It just seems to me that it is a little short notice, Mr President, to do so during this term of office, given the presence in our committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1057x.u24	Perhaps we will have a chance, if the legislature is extended a little bit and we have a little more time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1057x.u25	Minister, the situation in eastern Ukraine, in Crimea, has for years escalated and become a frozen conflict on our European continent. The Minsk Group is working hard to reach a negotiated solution, as is the Structured Dialogue led by Ambassador Huynen. Meanwhile, the situation on the ground remains precarious, especially for the OSCE observation missions. The bomb explosion near the OSCE headquarters raised some questions. Mr. Secretary, have any casualties occurred during the bombing? Is there any damage to the OSCE headquarters? What is the analysis of our diplomatic post on the ground? Are there any risks for the OSCE missions? Do we have any idea who's behind the explosion? What progress has been made on resolving the conflict in Ukraine with the Minsk Group and the Structured Dialogue? Where are we on a solution to annexation of Crimea? Is this also part of the discussions in the Minsk Group and the Structured Dialogue?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1057x.u26	Mr President, Mrs Bellens, on 18 February two explosions took place in Donetsk at 100 metres and 300 metres respectively from the basis of the OSCE Special Observation Mission in Ukraine. There were no casualties and no damage to the base. The explosions did cause material damage to the roof and wall of a gas distribution station and to the wall of a residential apartment building. There's no indication that those explosions were directed against the observation mission. Investigation by the OSCE after the explosions revealed that the craters were caused by the explosion of explosives without shell of an undefined type. The security of personnel is a top priority for the OSCE and the States participating in that mission. In the last two years, therefore, safety procedures, including operations, and physical safety of observers and infrastructure have been used even more than in the past. The Minsk agreements remain the only basis for a lasting solution to the conflict in Ukraine. The trilateral contact group and its working groups meet regularly in Minsk, but little concrete progress has been made on the implementation of the Minsk agreements in the past year. Nevertheless, there are some positive elements, in particular the decrease in civilian casualties, the repair of critical infrastructure near the contact line and the extension of the special status of the Donbass in Ukraine by the Ukrainian Parliament. However, the Structured Dialogue itself does not deal directly with the conflict in Ukraine. The Minsk agreements concern the conflict in eastern Ukraine and not the situation in Crimea and Sevastopol five years ago. This is not directly addressed in the Structured Dialogue either. I do not need to remind you that the illegal annexation of Crimea gave rise to international sanctions against Russia, also because of the European Union. However, there are no direct negotiations to reverse the annexation. The dossier is regularly discussed in various multilateral fora, such as the United Nations, NATO and the European Union. Given that Presidential elections are to take place in Ukraine and after the summer, it will not be easy to make progress. I am always in favour of correct and complete implementation of the Minsk agreements. However, I am not very optimistic about the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1057x.u27	Minister, if I understand correctly, it is the conclusion that the bombing was not directed directly against the OSCE. This is not insignificant in the light of the election observation in 14 days' time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1057x.u28	Mr President, Minister, the INF Treaty has since been denounced by both signatories. Russia has chosen not to comment on the ultimatum of the US, which was supported by NATO partners. The former INF partners are therefore no longer bound by the letter of the agreement. This makes it possible to station medium-range missiles in European countries. That is a situation that we thought was finally over at the end of the 1980s. How does the termination of the INF Convention proceed? What role does NATO and possibly our country play in this? Are there other international conventions that make it impossible to place medium-range missiles in our country? If so, which ones and which of them are we in? Will the US once again develop medium-range missiles in our country or in other European countries? Can our country refuse to place those missiles on the territory and shall we do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1057x.u29	Mr President, Mrs Bellens, on 1 February the United States announced its withdrawal from the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty as a result of Russia's failure to respect the Treaty. That withdrawal will only become effective after six months. NATO and Belgium do not play a direct role, as they are not parties to the Convention. NATO did make a statement on 1 February. In that statement, the Allies supported the United States' analysis that "Russia has seriously violated its obligations under the INF Convention." They also called on Russia to fulfil its obligations by destroying its controversial cruise missile system. Belgium has joined and has repeatedly called on Moscow to respond to these concerns. The INF Treaty is the only treaty banning medium-range missiles launched from the ground up. Consequently, the INF Convention has been a crucial pillar of arms control and Euro-Atlantic security for more than 30 years. Consequently, Belgium deeply regrets the infringement of the INF Convention. Even if it were to disappear effectively within a few months, Belgium will continue to work for further steps in the international disarmament agenda. At this stage it is too early to assess the concrete consequences of the disappearance of INF. However, analysis is being carried out by NATO to study the implications for the security of the alliance. We've already been in touch with our American colleagues. I was in Washington a few weeks ago and I asked what other slopes were possible. At European level, like NATO, we are also trying to follow other slopes. There may be a new negotiation process between the US and Russia, which is not evident though. Otherwise, there may also be a multilateral approach with at least the US, Russia and China. That, of course, is not clear either. The European Union will therefore have to make further efforts. We are prepared to make efforts to move forward with INF, which I believe will be very difficult, or to come up with a different framework for the same problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1057x.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. Minister, last month, I asked you about the ongoing negotiation of the treaty on business and human rights, initiated by the UN Human Rights Council, with a view to establishing the primacy of human rights over economic interests and investor rights. You then informed us that the European Union was still undecided about the attitude to be adopted, and that if the European Union decided to participate in the negotiation process through a written contribution to the first version of the text – the Zero Draft – Belgium would support this initiative. In the event that the Union was not to submit a written contribution, Belgium intended to reassess its position. According to the press, on 8 March, the European Commission decided, on the grounds of procedural concerns, not to participate in the negotiations. France, for its part, submitted a written notice. Minister, do you confirm this decision of the European Union? What are the reasons for this and is it final? Did Belgium also submit a written contribution to the Zero Draft? Does our country intend to remain engaged in the negotiation process? In case he is still undecided, when will he decide?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1057x.u31	Mr. Chair, Minister, at the third meeting of the UN's Intergovernmental Working Group on the Business and Human Rights Treaty, held in Geneva in October 2017, the conclusion of the report made a specific request to States and various stakeholders to comment and make proposals on the draft elements submitted by Ecuador. However, it seems that Belgium has not yet given its contribution and that the European Union is withdrawing from the process. Minister, do you confirm this information about the withdrawal of the European Union? Would Belgium, however, remain in the process and intend to send its contribution as soon as possible in order to show a constructive position within the framework of the latter? What elements were decided or discussed at the meeting of the CoorMulti on January 15th?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1057x.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, despite the initiative taken by our country to advocate for a greater European commitment to the negotiation process, the European Union did in fact decide, at the end of February, not to contribute to the negotiations at this time. Our country regrets the European Union's disengagement. There are two main reasons for the European Union's decision. First, the European Union's red lines have not been met so far either on the substance of the scope of the instrument (transnational activity only) and on coherence with the United Nations guiding principles, or on concerns about the negotiation process. Secondly, the process lacks support due to the lack of participation of most industrialized countries. Therefore, at this stage, the process is unlikely to lead to the development of effective reparation mechanisms for victims as well as to the creation of fair operating conditions for businesses. At the CoorMulti meeting on 15 January (before this European Union decision), Belgium had adopted the following position: - a. should the European Union decide to engage in the negotiation process, Belgium would fully support this commitment which it already advocated; - b. if the European Union decides to withdraw from the negotiation process but a large group of European Union Member States wished to engage in the process in their national capacity, our country could join that group and participate in the process in their national capacity; - c. If the European Union decides to withdraw from the negotiation process but no large group of Member States wished to engage in the process on a national basis, Belgium's position should be redefined. Today we find ourselves in this last scenario. The withdrawal of the European Union from the negotiating process puts the Member States in a more complex position than whether it is politically desirable to participate in this negotiation jointly or nationally. Many of the issues raised by the draft Treaty fall within the exclusive competence of the Union in the field of trade policy or mixed competences. It is not clear on which points in particular the Member States can engage, not from a political point of view but from a legal point of view, in negotiations. This explains why only France has so far made a limited contribution to a particular point on which it already has national legislation. That is why Belgium was and still is in favour of a common position of the European Union in this matter and why Belgium has so far not submitted a written contribution in the negotiation process. With a view to European developments, it was decided to set up a technical working group composed of representatives of the federal government as well as federated entities. This group will analyse the content of the Belgian position and how our commitment can continue. I continue to believe that we could go towards a written contribution if, at least, it relates to competences for which Belgium can enter into this negotiation. We will see whether the federated entities, in particular, will send us a number of proposals in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1057x.u33	Minister, thank you. It is regrettable that the European Union is withdrawing from the process at this stage because this attitude is seen as a strategy to hinder any progress towards binding standards for human rights and sustainable development. I hear the legal complexity and the situation in which Belgium is in order to know on what points it could make its written contribution. However, France did. I therefore imagine that Belgium could do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1057x.u34	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1057x.u35	Yes, France made only one contribution, but if Belgium did the same, it would already be an important signal diplomatically and vis-à-vis civil society. I'm sure they'd appreciate it. The technical group federal government/federal entities is certainly necessary but where are we in the planning? Unless I am mistaken, the deadline for the delivery of written notices was February 22. Intra-Belgian consultation is essential, but it would be regrettable if from a diplomatic point of view it were to be equated with withdrawal or procrastination on the part of Belgium as regards its support for this Treaty and the negotiations. Can we hope in this election period that intra-Belgian consultation will progress quickly so that we can quickly file a written contribution? I'm afraid the answer is negative? I regret the signal that will be given by our lack of concrete support for these negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1057x.u36	Minister, thank you for all these elements of the answer. It is, of course, regrettable that the European Union has withdrawn from the process. As far as Belgium is concerned, I understand that the different scenarios have been studied and that meetings are still to be held in the near future to review the situation. We will not fail to come back to you to find out what you have decided at these meetings. We hope that Belgium will continue to play a leading role in advancing this important treaty for respect for human rights and sustainable development.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1057x.u37	Mr Minister, on 7 and 8 March, in the framework of the Romanian Presidency of the European Union, representatives of the national parliaments and of the European Parliament took part in an interparliamentary conference on the common foreign and security policy (CFSP) and on the common security and defence policy (CSDP) in Bucharest. At the conference, it was clear that expert panels were more than predominantly male: on the first day, no woman was present as a speaker. On the part of the participants, inequality of gender representation was also important. While the conference was unable to produce conclusions or recommendations shared by all participants and the Romanian Presidency contented itself with a joint declaration by the two Heads of Delegation of the Parliaments of Romania and Europe, the deputies, on the initiative of the Belgian delegation, adopted a joint declaration aimed at sharing their inclusive vision of defence, based on dialogue, democracy, diplomacy and development, understood as the foundation of peace and security strategies in Europe. Minister, my questions are as follows. Do you consider it acceptable that gender equality should not be ensured at the level of speakers attending such European meetings? If not, do you intend to convey your disapproval to the European Council and your Romanian partner? Are there any instruments to make progress on this issue for similar future meetings? Are you aware of the statement made by Members of the European Parliament? Do you support the initiative, and how do you intend to echo it? In advance, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1057x.u38	Mrs Waterschoot, it is of course up to the rotating presidency to organise events which it considers important. The interparliamentary conference - I would stress this - to which you refer was addressed only to the representatives of the European Parliament and the national parliaments. My services were not invited to attend the conference. It is therefore difficult for me to comment on how the event took place. I hear and read your comments on the matter. I share your concern. It is important to always ensure a good representation of the genres. You will see that I am watching in this room, with the help of the parliamentarians who are still present. Delegations, too, have an important role to play in that regard. To my knowledge, there are no specific instructions on the management of gender representation for organising meetings of the European Presidency. My services have not yet been able to take note of the statement made by the Members of the European Parliament to which you refer. We'll do it. I have no difficulty in relaying this concern to the Romanian Presidency once we have heard of it. Having said that, I also stress the interparliamentary nature of this conference. That is why I am somewhat surprised that parliaments have either not been involved in its organisation or have not been more attentive to gender equality in this area. You know my concern - the President knows it even more - in terms of the separation of powers. I would therefore not like to go too far in my remarks on the positioning of the national parliaments and the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1057x.u39	Minister, I understand your comment on the original nature of my question, since it concerned an interparliamentary conference, but it was held under the auspices of the Presidency of the European Union. However, I wanted to bring this to your attention. It was a pleasure for me to convey to you the declaration that we signed and that other women will still sign. More generally, I am pleased that you share my concern. Yesterday, we heard high-level experts speak out about respect for European values, particularly with regard to the Hungarian case and the oil stain in terms of their violation and the rule of law. Gender equality and the place of women are indeed part of these values. That is why a strategy to prevent these abuses affecting women is, at least, to express our disagreement about an interparliamentary meeting. I therefore encourage you - even in informal discussions - to raise this issue with your counterparts. This could serve as an example.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1057x.u40	I believe that this was the last question for this legislature. The Minister can leave with a clean sheet, because there is no question anymore. Thank you.
