ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1053x.u1	Madam President, Minister, on Tuesday, 22 January 2019, Germany and France signed a treaty on cooperation in defence matters. On Thursday, January 31, 2019, we learned that Germany would not buy a F-35 to replace its Tornado. It is a political decision in order to favour a European solution. On Wednesday, 6 February 2019, Germany and France notified Dassault and Airbus of a joint concept study on the future air combat system (CAFS). Both countries awarded the first study contracts to industrialists, amounting to €65 million for the architecture and conceptualization of the SCAF. Germany and France are therefore working together to build a Europe of defence, investing in the development of new European defence equipment. If the German Minister of Defence has made it clear that it is first of all a matter of building a base before inviting other European countries - we know that in the meantime Spain has joined the SCAF project - we can nevertheless wonder whether it will be possible for our country to participate in it. In fact, last July, French ambassador Claude-France Arnould, based in Brussels, said: "If the idea emerged to buy the F-35 and to participate simultaneously in the SCAF, then I must point out that there is a misunderstanding." We couldn't be clearer. In fact, I made a personal remark to the Defence Minister in committee on 14 June 2018, calling for a real European solution to be taken into account as a way forward for the participation of the SCAF programme. The Germans understood the need to speed up the re-establishment of a genuine European defence with strategic autonomy, particularly at European level. They declined Lockheed Martin's offer and ignored American pressure. At present, our country is excluded from this project because of the choice made by our government. It seems that France refuses to allow us to participate. When the F-35 was announced to replace the F-16s, the Prime Minister announced that, thanks to the award, we would be able to make available 646 million euros, some of which would be committed to participate in the SCAF project. Minister, Germany and France have strong ambitions for a defence Europe. Your predecessor did not hide a certain Euroscepticism, including in defence matters. Have you taken any steps to ensure that we are once again ambitious in this area? What happened to the €646 million saved on the F-35 acquisition programme? Have they already been hired? If so, in which programs? In what way? How high? Will our country eventually be able to participate in the SCAF project? What are the exchanges with your German and French counterparts on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1053x.u2	Madam President. Mr Dallemagne, the Franco-German Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle, signed on 22 January 2019, confirms France's and Germany's desire for greater European Union security and defence responsibility. Bilateral or regional cooperation in armaments programmes is also part of a rationalisation and greater integration of our industries. Belgium is a forerunner in this respect and the integration of the Belgian and Dutch marines, which allows us to develop collaborations for the joint acquisition of equipment, new frigates and new anti-mine vessels, is regularly cited as an example of good practice in this field. The partnership for motorised capacity (CaMo), which Belgium recently concluded with France for the acquisition of armoured vehicles, is also part of a logic of capacitar and operational integration. All collaborations with our neighbours have important economic components. These enable our companies to participate in these projects, but also to improve their position on the European market. This greater integration in defence has been further developed with the implementation, in 2017, of the Permanent Structured Cooperation (PSC) - PSOC in English. Within the framework of this SPC, 34 capacity and operational collaboration projects have been launched to enable the European Union to fill its gaps and achieve its level of ambition. Belgium is the pilot country for one of the projects on the future development of autonomous mine-action systems and participates in fourteen other projects, both in the capacity and operational fields. In parallel with the CSP, the European Commission has set up a European Defence Fund which will make it possible to finance research and development projects by 2021. The financial support is intended directly for industrial consortia which will have to be made up of companies from several Member States. Belgium will make proposals for research projects, particularly in the field of combating marine mines. The Council of Ministers, in its decision of 25 October 2018 on the replacement of capacity F-16, set aside EUR 369.2 million for European defence projects, in particular for the future aircraft project. This was a clear signal of the government's willingness to be part of future European development projects. In view of recent developments on the future air combat system (CAFS) project, contacts have already taken place and will continue in the coming weeks. With regard to the interest that the FPS Economy might have, I suggest that you ask the appropriate minister the question. However, I can already confirm that a memorandum of understanding signed between the Ministers for Defence and the Economy provides, where appropriate, for measures to protect essential security interests and thereby develop the Belgian and, by extension, European defence technological and industrial base. For the F-16 replacement file, an overall amount of EUR 277 million has been set aside for the period 2019-2027.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1053x.u3	Mr Minister, thank you and I take note of the fact that there is no specific information on Belgium's participation in the SCAF programme. Belgium does not seem to be part of it at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1053x.u4	The contacts are under way, as I just told you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1053x.u5	Which doesn't mean anything yet. In terms of results, there is nothing concrete.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1053x.u6	Debates of the European Parliament 28562 by Mrs Fernandez Fernandez, nr. 2-9021 by Mrs Caprasse and others, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group) (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1053x.u7	Minister, on 14 February we were able to read in the press a report of the internal war in the Taliban military intelligence agency ADIV, a story that has been dragging on for a long time. I have also asked questions about this on a regular basis here in Parliament. There is talk of a conflict between different departments, including between the Information Division and the Counterintelligence Division. There are even accounts between staff members in different departments. The article points to professional errors and insubordination-bound self-esteem among certain executives and outlines an image of a highly dysfunctional service. It is vengeful that one and a half years after the internal problems at the ADIV first came out, and eight years after a first audit of the Committee I identified serious shortcomings, there is still no improvement. The nature of the ADIV's tasks in conjunction with the ongoing malaise will damage our country's security interests and diplomatic interests, as far as this is not the case at present. How is it possible that despite the appointment of a new chief, the scandals continue to accumulate? What obstacles do you think there are? Do you agree that only a thorough and fundamental reform of the service can lead to an improvement in the long term? Three consecutive officers of the ADIV have failed in the past fifteen years to turn the ADIV into an effective, modern intelligence service. Do you agree that politics will have to play a leading role in solving the problems? What specific measures will you take? Two weeks earlier, similar problems emerged in the security of the State. In your view, is it time to review the vision of the intelligence services policy, to valorise them as key policy-supporting actors and therefore to invest more than now in means of operation and in a redrafting of the Belgian intelligence landscape?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1053x.u8	Minister, there have been several questions to your predecessor on the subject in the past and we have also had a lot of discussions on it. I will not repeat what Mr De Vriendt said. I understand that next Monday there will be a meeting of the advisory committee of the Committee I to which you are invited. I'll be there, too, that creates a bond. In any case, more will perhaps be done about this than you can say here today, I understand that. On the basis of the audit carried out, a number of short-term improvement proposals, namely by 1 January 2019, had to be implemented. There were also improvement proposals in the slightly longer term. Quite specifically, where are we on the implementation of the audit?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1053x.u9	The intelligence world is a very complex world with different services. Working in the field to understand the situation well and getting to know the national and international partners takes time. The incidents that are now being reported in the press relate to some of the old facts. In addition, some files are confused. Disinformation and sensationalism add to some of the facts. I choose to focus on the fact that the service has a lot of performant and efficient people, which makes the service relevant to the stakeholders, both at home and abroad. Since his appointment as Chief of the General Intelligence and Security Service, Lieutenant General Van de Voorde has been working towards greater transparency and cooperation. He wanted, among other things, to bring about a change of attitude. In addition, he has initiated a major internal reorganisation. It takes into account the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on the terrorist attacks and of the Committee I. A number of decisions and actions have already been taken as part of the reorganisation process. The vast majority of ADIV staff are positive and flexible. However, certain individuals cling to the past and do everything they can to prevent the change. In addition, the existence of different and complex statutes for staff in the ADIV makes the situation more difficult. Finally, there would still be a serious shortage of staff and of good infrastructure due to insufficient investment in the past, every chef of that service would suffer. Moreover, the fact that the service was housed in different buildings makes it difficult to operate coherently. The expectations of the intelligence services in Belgium are rightly high. A thorough reform has been going on for more than six months. It started shortly after the receipt of the decisions of the latest audit of the Committee I in June 2018. The reform focuses on increased efficiency and on strengthening cooperation with State Security on counter-terrorism, among other things. The Defence staff is working on a series of initiatives in the short term. For example, 40 new inspectors and 18 commissioner analysts were recruited, who are now undergoing training until the middle of this year. Consideration is also being given to the possible refinement of the existing statutes, where necessary. The infrastructure of the various services was improved and additional resources were purchased. A thorough reorganisation of the ADIV is also carried out through a so-called business process reengineering. Since my appointment as Minister of Defence in December, I have examined in detail all the documents relating to the audit of the Committee I on the Directorate CI. I've had several meetings with the CHOD and the ADIV. My concern is now to normalize the situation and enable the service to perform its task optimally. I have been careful to ensure that accurate measures are taken, worked out by the military hierarchy. The measures will be submitted next week to the special committee responsible for parliamentary supervision of the Standing Committee I. As far as my views on the intelligence services are concerned, I agree with the recommendations of the Parliamentary Terro Committee: greater transparency, better cooperation between the two services and, above all, better exchange of information. An example of this is the National Strategic Intelligence Plan between the ADIV and the VSSE. With the implementation of the plan, liaison officers were sent out on both sides, a follow-up committee was set up at the highest level and operational cooperation was improved through mixed teams. Projects such as joint training, a similar information system and common access to data are still under way. The ADIV established a Defense Intelligence and Security Coordination Centre, which centralised all information. Other traces of thought can of course still be proposed and are welcome. It is always appropriate to carry out a reflection exercise with the various stakeholders at both administrative and parliamentary level, but in the appropriate fora. I am prepared to hear a number of proposals relating to the analysis of the dossier at a subsequent meeting of the committee responsible for the parliamentary supervision of the Standing Committee I. I have always asked the CHOD and the head of the service to stay in contact with the president of the Committee I. It is very important to exchange ideas and information with the Committee I week after week. So we will have another meeting with the committee next Monday.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1053x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. It is well known that the process of reform under General Van de Voorde is in full swing, but I do not need to repeat that the problems have not yet been resolved. The question is whether he really has a chance of success and whether he does not run into some internal obstacles. It may be useful for politics to follow it very closely and give him a great deal of support so that the problems can be resolved. You're also Secretary of State. Of course, I do not need to convince you of the importance of a well-functioning military intelligence service. The situation there may also have diplomatic repercussions. Remember how incidents have had diplomatic consequences over the past few years.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1053x.u11	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Luckily, it's not all trouble and torment. Fortunately, improvement proposals are being made and, fortunately, they are being implemented. That's a good thing. Are the problems with that all gone? I don't think so. There will be a great deal of work to be done to end the struggle between the citizens and the military. The CI section has a specific role to play. We must ensure that everything goes well and that everyone knows who has what powers and what responsibilities. I naturally agree with the recommendations of the Terro Committee. In the past, we have held several debates on a far-reaching cooperation between the ADIV and State Security. Perhaps further steps will have to be taken in the future. With the guidance committee of the Standing Committee I we will visit the ADIV tomorrow and a further discussion will follow next week. So the file is definitely being prosecuted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1053x.u12	Mr Minister, I would like to ask you about the military barracks and, above all, their future, which my political group has always defended. While at the core the strategic vision was preparing, in half words, for the closure of barracks and military quarters, the Prime Minister recently declared - on 20 February I think - that given the future recruitments by the Department of Defence - the figure of 10,000 troops by 2024 is quoted - the next government should decide to keep all military barracks in operation. Mr Minister, I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. As part of the implementation of the strategic vision, is there a government plan to close barracks? More specifically, for some time now, there have been strong rumours of the closure of the Nivelles military pharmacy. Is this pharmacy now saved? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1053x.u13	Minister, on my previous question on this issue at the committee meeting of 16 January 2019, you emphasised the principle that infrastructure should serve the tasks and not vice versa. Recently, I received the answer to my written question which looked at the state of infrastructure and the number of staff in the barracks and quarters of Defence. In that context, I have a few questions. Firstly, can you clarify exactly what infrastructure operating costs include? Are these only the costs of the building itself or are the costs for the site, for example green management, also included? Are the investments also part of the amounts shown in the answer to my written question? Some tasks such as watchkeeping, catering and technical maintenance are gradually outsourced. Were they also included in infrastructure costs? Secondly, the airports in Kleine Brogel in Limburg and in Florennes in Namur have a similar contract and a similar number of staff with 1 371 and 1 215 respectively. However, the infrastructure costs in Florennes are 1 519 944 euros higher than in Kleine Brogel. How do you explain that? Thirdly, the Military Hospital in Brussels has infrastructure costs of almost EUR 7 million for less than 900 staff and is therefore the frontrunner. What elements are part of this infrastructure cost? What additional costs does Queen Astrid have compared to other barracks and quarters? Fourthly, despite the fact that Defence is employing only 127 staff in the Elsenborn-Bütgenbach camp, infrastructure costs amount to EUR 1 690 824. What factors do these costs entail in relation to the number of staff? Finally, in your reply to my written question, you state that the current state of the heritage, combined with the imminent introduction of new capabilities and weapons systems, requires urgent and important investment in infrastructure. Will keeping barracks and quarters open with high infrastructure costs and few staff prevent catching up?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1053x.u14	Colleagues, the government has decided that no military quarters will be closed under this legislature. This decision is not currently being called into question. It is also applicable to the military quarters of Nivelles. The average annual operating costs for infrastructure, as requested in written question No. 1611 of 27 November 2018 includes four domains, namely large maintenance of buildings and roads, ordinary technical maintenance of buildings, energy costs (electricity, fuel, water) and quarter-hour services, such as cleaning, greening, clearance, maintenance of fire and kitchen equipment, furniture maintenance and safety and hygiene expenditure. The outsourced tasks, such as technical maintenance, cleaning and clearance, are included in these operating costs. However, investments are not included. The assignments and the general condition of the airports of Kleine Brogel and Florennes are not fully comparable. The Florennes air base includes a larger number of capacities and units and must also provide territorial infrastructure support to other quarters within its area of responsibility. The operating costs of Florennes include not only the large and simple technical maintenance of the base itself, but also those of the other quarters of the zone. This is not the case for Kleine Brogel's air base, which should not fulfil this additional aid mission. The energy costs and the quarter-hour services of both air bases are similar. In addition, some of the infrastructure of Kleine Brogel's air base has been renewed by NATO, which means that the costs for the large and simple technical maintenance of the base itself for the period under consideration are lower than those for Florennes' air base. The high costs of the Military Hospital are specific to the mission as a military hospital and to the role it plays in national disasters, attacks and so on. The cost of a hospital depends primarily on the type of care that must be provided in accordance with missions, the number of beds and, to a lesser extent, the number of employees. The military hospital has not only some traditional specialized technical infrastructure - such as surgery and X-ray - specific to a hospital, but also unique capabilities related to its mission, such as the burn service, the hyperbaric chamber and the disaster management infrastructure. Because we are working in partnership with CHU Brugmann, Defence is also exploiting this infrastructure for the benefit of its partner through a broader agreement. The Elsenborn Camp is used for the training and training of Defence personnel. The main task of the local garrison is to provide the necessary infrastructure for the many troops in the camp and to operate the various shooting and training facilities. The cost of operating the camp is therefore primarily dependent on the use of training and training facilities. Current infrastructure costs generally depend on the missions carried out within infrastructure today and in the past as well as on the general state of infrastructure. The closure of barracks and neighbourhoods in the future will have an impact on the overall cost of infrastructure.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1053x.u15	Minister, thank you for your answers. The Nivelles military pharmacy will therefore not be closed under this legislature. I hope it will be the same for the next one!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1053x.u16	Minister, you gave a very comprehensive explanation, thank you for that. I will study it quietly and perhaps come back to this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1053x.u17	Madam President, Minister, on 21 February, a motion for a resolution from my group calling for a genuine psychosocial follow-up of the Belgian military before, during and after their missions was unanimously supported, first, by the Committee on National Defence and, secondly, by the overwhelming majority of the House in plenary. Everyone seems aware that the well-being of our military must be assured and a clear mandate has been given to the resigning government to follow up on it. True, automatic and long-term monitoring is therefore essential and it is time to take stock of the current arrangements and how we could improve them. Minister, what follow-up will you give to this resolution addressed to the government? How do you intend to evaluate and improve existing arrangements? Are other measures being planned to improve the well-being of our military before, during and after their missions? Will it be possible to receive the report requested in the text within the Special Commission for the follow-up of missions abroad?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1053x.u18	Mr Chabot, our military personnel involved in operations both abroad and in the national territory receive multidisciplinary support, both psychological, social and medical, preventive and curative. This follow-up takes place before departure, during the mission and after return. Several services within Defence have the primary task of tracking members throughout their careers, including during missions, in order to maintain their health in an optimal manner. The mechanisms put in place to provide our military with psychosocial support before, during and after missions will be assessed through risk analyses, in accordance with the Welfare Act of 4 August 1996. For the sake of continuous improvement, an even more dynamic and personalised risk assessment and prevention system is being developed. Another project aims to develop a new post-mission measurement and monitoring instrument. Your question referred to the possibility of receiving a report on psychosocial follow-up for Belgian military personnel. I propose that this question be put to the chairman of the special committee responsible for monitoring missions abroad. We will have an opportunity to see if this is possible in this context.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1053x.u19	Minister, thank you for your answers. However, I would like to stress the automatic nature of this psychosocial support. It was one of the objects of the hearings we wanted with the military and military unions. This follow-up, this accompaniment, is not automatic, and is done on demand. The aim of the motion for a resolution is to systematise this follow-up, to make it automatic and to ensure that it is planned in the long term.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1053x.u20	Minister, I would like to ask you about the withdrawal of American troops from Syria and its impact on the other members of the coalition against the Islamic State. This announcement has embarrassed many members of the coalition, while the threat persists. Minister, what is Belgium's position on this withdrawal? What do you think of the proposal to create a safe area in eastern Syria? Does Belgium intend to increase the presence of its troops in Syria? Finally, can you tell me more about the state of progress of the talks between our country and the Netherlands, France, Denmark or the United Kingdom on coordinated management of safe zone security?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1053x.u21	Mr Corthuts, the President of the United States has indeed decided to withdraw the vast majority of his troops from their positions in north-eastern Syria. The implications and details of the implementation of this approach are still under consideration. Belgium can only take note of this and possibly participate, as far as possible, in actions aimed at mitigating the consequences and safeguarding the achievements of the coalition. The creation of a safe area is one of the possibilities that can lead to planning work. It is clear, however, that every initiative that can promote regional stability must be explored. There was no actual consultation within the group of nations mentioned. Different possibilities are explored between key countries. We are part of it as a participant in the coalition core group, within the framework of the coordination structures normally planned to defeat Daesh. I had the opportunity to discuss this issue with my colleagues in this core group at a meeting held on the sidelines of the security conference in Munich. I also had the opportunity to speak with my American colleague during my visit to the Pentagon. During this visit, however, after the announcement of a full withdrawal, the retention of at least 200 US military personnel in this area of the north-east appeared. This would perhaps allow already present European nations to accompany the process. You know that the Belgian Parliament has given up any military presence on Syrian soil, but there are other ways to intervene, for example at the departure of Iraq or in other participations that could be asked of us. For security reasons, you will understand that no communication is being made regarding the conditions for the withdrawal of American troops. We will continue to monitor the situation and see how to preserve the achievements of the coalition in the region.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1053x.u22	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1053x.u23	Debates of the European Parliament 29020 by Mrs Fernandez Fernandez will be converted into a written question. Mr Top, I come to your questions. It may be the final questions in the Defence Committee for this legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1053x.u24	Mr Minister, the Netherlands and Belgium are buying multipurpose and mine-fighting vessels together. The Netherlands takes the lead in the purchase of four frigates and our country takes the lead in the purchase of twelve mine fighters. According to the schedule, the government would make a decision by the end of 2018, but that decision will not be taken until today. The frigates should be delivered by 2025 and since building a frigate takes an average of seven years, there is obviously no time. Do you and the government still have the ambition to take a decision on mine-fighting vessels in this legislature? What is the exact timing in the file of the mine warriors and the frigates? Are both files, that of the frigates, on the one hand, and those of the mine warriors, on the other hand, linked in timing? Could you give me a little more explanation about the delays? Why was no decision taken at the end of 2018? Finally, and most importantly, when will the dossier be discussed and evaluated again in Parliament, should a decision be taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1053x.u25	Minister, I would like to refer to my question of 16 January. I already questioned you then about the dossier and you replied that it was the intention to award it in the first trimester of 2019. In the meantime, we have also discussed this in the Committee on Army Procurement, sometime in February. In addition to Mr Top's questions, I would also like to know whether the Committee on Army Procurement and Parliament will be consulted prior to the government's decision. Or does the Minister of a government intend to submit the file post factum to Parliament in current cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1053x.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the government is considering taking a decision in this legislature. As regards mine-fighting vessels and associated MCM capacity, there is a period of design and development after the conclusion of the contract and during the execution, resulting in the start of the procedure of the first ship for Belgium with delivery from the end of 2023. From 2025 onwards, the Dutch and Belgian ships will be delivered alternately, with the latest delivery expected in 2030. As far as the multifunctional frigates are concerned, a number of studies have already been contracted and started. It is envisaged that the main contract with the shipyard will be concluded by the end of 2020. It is assumed that the shipyard in Vlissingen will be able to deliver one ship a year. The introduction into the Dutch Navy of the first two ships of the series is planned from 2027. For the Belgian ships this is from 2029. Both memorandums of understanding for mine-fighting vessels and multi-purposes were signed on 8 June 2018, but the implementation and timing of the programmes are determined by national procedures and are independent of each other. The allocation of the contract for mine-fighting vessels has been delayed by a small delay of two to three months, due inter alia to the complexity of the purchase dossier. In order to give tenderers the maximum opportunity to submit compliant and optimised tenders, it was necessary to extend the negotiation period for a few weeks. The multifunctional frigates program awaits the result of a number of studies in order to make well-founded design choices for the construction. The main contract for the construction of the frigates was never set by the Netherlands before the end of 2020, at the end of the study and acquisition phase. None of the delays currently give rise to delayed delivery of vessels. At the request of the members of the Parliamentary Commission for Army Purchases, a presentation was given on 20 February 2019 on the large investment files. The state of play regarding the acquisition of mine-fighting vessels was then proposed. As part of the decision to be taken by the government in this case, I will inform the committee about the evaluation of the various tenderers. I'm working with the government to see if it's possible to make a decision. I'm willing to do that, all the files are ready and I've started the procedure, but I still have to get an initial response from the government. I will perhaps ask Parliament for very soon...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1053x.u27	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1053x.u28	So do I, but I know that's not always the case. I've heard that sometimes it's very difficult to hold a meeting. I'm preparing a decision right now. To this end, I first try to get an orientation from the government. I will try to inform Parliament and then come up with a formal decision by the government. That's what I'm trying to do. I hope that it will be possible for Parliament to organise a meeting very quickly. It's hard sometimes. It is a very large dossier and I have heard that we sometimes have to wait a few weeks to amend some of the rules relating to staff mobility. I will ask whether it is possible to work faster, at least if the government gives me an orientation in that respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1053x.u29	Mr Minister, when it comes to evaluating the purchase dossier, the question is, of course, how seriously Parliament is taken. The way you explain it, it seems as if the government wants to come to the committee with an orientation on the dossier. You literally used the word "orientation." The question is, of course, how the committee will be able to assess the dossier and see the evaluation. I'm just asking that question. I would like to refer to the file on the replacement of the F-16s, where MEPs had to sit in a closed room and could not use the Internet, reference works and other information. If that is the way in which the committee wishes to obtain proper approval, then I have questions. It is a good thing that you are promising a feedback to Parliament. Moreover, I am concerned about whether the multi-useability of mine-fighting vessels has been taken into account, and I hope that we will be able to test this in the evaluation. I'm declaring myself. We buy those vessels again for a number of years and have already been explained about the construction. These mine-fighting vessels can also be used as OPV and can therefore take on additional tasks, such as patrolling and controlling embargoes. I hope that is part of the assessment by the Defence Department of the mine-fighting vessels. I also hope that we will be able to get a proper assessment from the government and from you on how you will arrive at a proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1053x.u30	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I will repeat a little more positively than Mr Top. For the sake of clarity, we fully support the dossier. We believe it's an important investment for the Defense Department. Defense and the then government are accused of investing only in the replacement of F-16s. This is also a very important dossier for the defence sector, for which you can count on our support. I am also pleased that ambiguity has been eliminated. You may, of course, orient yourself as much as you like, but a decision will only be taken after consultation of Parliament. That's important. I happen to be chairman of the relevant committee and I will ensure that that committee can be convened quickly. You're only gonna let me know when she needs to be called together. Parliament must be flexible in order to be able to do that work. In any case, I call on the government, both in the orientation and decision-making stages, to ensure that a very good buy is made technically. The best devices must be chosen. Furthermore, the economic return for the Flemish, Walloon and Brussels companies must be optimal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1053x.u31	Mr Buysrogge, let me be clear: we too support this dossier. Maybe I came across a little negative, but we just want to get the necessary transparency on that dossier. Minister, in June 2017, the Council of Ministers gave the green light to the ordering of 477 new combat vehicles, representing an investment of EUR 1.1 billion. The vehicles should replace Piranha and Dingo vehicles; 417 light vehicles of type Griffon and 60 heavier Jaguars would be purchased. I would like to answer the following questions, Minister. What is the status of the file? How many vehicles are now being purchased exactly? Will the numbers be retained? Will the budget of EUR 1.1 billion be maintained?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1053x.u32	Mr Top, the important milestones in this dossier are the following. On 25 October 2018, the agreement of the Council of Ministers was obtained for the award proposal and on 26 October the award report was signed by the then Minister of Defence. On 7 November 2018, the mission documents were signed by the then Minister of Defence and the French ministre des Armées. On 1 March 2019, the Belgian Deputy Programme Director Capacité Motorisée (CaMo) was replaced by the Directorate générale de l'armement in Paris and three liaison officers of the Landcomponent were replaced in Lille and Paris. The management structure set out in the agreement has been activated and all the bodies have already come together. At the stage of the application for prior agreement, the quantities were 417 and 60 respectively. Coherent with the doctrine of reorganising the French SCORPION programme and in order to achieve total interoperability, 382 vehicles of the light version Griffon and 60 vehicles of the median version Jaguar were ordered at the award stage. An amount of EUR 1 206 999 000 was committed at constant 2015 prices including VAT on investment credits for the purchase of the vehicles and EUR 1 112 150 000 at constant 2015 prices. The related material costs 94.844 million euros. For programme management costs, there is a required budget of €46.971 million in operating resources, spread over 2019 to 2031.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1053x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I should have clarified my question in advance. I have looked into the programme offered by the French. In that program four vehicles are possible. We only buy two types of the four. I suppose that's in proportion to the capabilities we want for our defense. I should have asked that question in advance. Maybe you can't answer that right now. Secondly, will the reduction in the number of vehicles of the type Griffon not cause any capacity problems? After all, the number of 417 had just been chosen to have those capabilities at our disposal. We're reducing the number. This may not cause any capacity problems, but I do hear that this will keep us within the budget. So I assume that there is a price increase, which reduces the purchase of 35 aircraft? Perhaps you could clarify this for me?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1053x.u34	In the framework of the negotiations with the French, there have been discussions on the capacities we want to pursue. In this context, the vehicles intended for the Mortiers and Command Post have actually been partially removed because they were not yet conceptually ready. These vehicles need to be further developed. That's why those numbers have been brought down.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1053x.u35	You're talking about those 35 Griffons?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1053x.u36	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1053x.u37	The French project involved four types of vehicles. Why were only two types purchased?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1053x.u38	Because we are not taking over all the capacities that the French are developing. We have a lower echelon.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1053x.u39	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1053x.u40	Madam President, Minister, in the summer of 2014, France started the cross-border counter-terror operation Barkhane. At the request of this country, one Belgian military will be deployed for six months, from March to October 2019. The military will be employed as an officer within the logistics cell of the headquarters and will carry out staffing there. It is not so common for Belgian participation to be decided in current cases, however small. Do you not take Parliament out of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1053x.u41	Madam President, Mr Top, the military involved is employed at the headquarters of the French corps de réaction rape (CRR France). This headquarters was designated to participate in Operation Barkhane. The global dossier "Belgian operational deployment in 2019," approved by the Council of Ministers on 16 November 2018, provides for the deployment of Belgian military personnel employed in international headquarters, for specific assignments. In order to meet these ad hoc needs and to safeguard the credibility of our participation in international headquarters, Defence has provided for an average annual deployment of five military personnel in the global file. There is therefore no question of Parliament being sidelined, since the commitment quoted here is part of the five military envelope on an annual basis for the participation of Belgian military in missions at foreign headquarters and organisations. Nevertheless, I would like to thank you for your great attention for one of our soldiers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1053x.u42	For the sake of clarity, Minister, every military man needs to be given the necessary attention. Why was this specific question asked? Because this is an operation by France, in particular the cross-border counter-terrorist operation Barkhane. That's not just a foreign assignment. The global dossier was indeed approved by the Council of Ministers on 16 November 2018. It is possible to discuss whether or not an explanation should be made in advance to Parliament. After all, the government is in ongoing business. That one person is now getting a very specific assignment within that project. I am not questioning the fact that the military is going there, in the sense that this should not be allowed for me. That's not the point. The question is whether you should not have informed Parliament proactively. I refer to what you said earlier this morning, saying that many things can be done, but that we cannot work without Parliament. You explained that this morning with regard to the legislative proposals. I expected more caution to be shown with regard to sending that military on mission in this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1053x.u43	Madam President, Minister, obtaining information from abroad is essential for the task of protecting Belgian interests abroad by the ADIV. It was recently announced that the intelligence services had also approached the Assad regime in Syria. I'd like to get an answer to the following questions. Firstly, how has the ADIV and, where appropriate, the VSSE worked together? Is this information exchange lawful? Secondly, what information was exchanged with the Syrian secret service, and on what legal basis? Has the ADIV obtained data in this way that it was not able to obtain on the basis of its own powers? Thirdly, is there sufficient safeguards for the protection of fundamental rights? How does the ADIV implement these guarantees in practice? How does the ADIV manage associated risks? Fourthly, under what conditions does cooperation with secret services take place, as aligned in the National Security Council Directive of January 2017? What conditions were laid down for the adoption of this directive and, in particular, what conditions were attached to the ministerial approval of this cooperation with the Syrian services? After giving your consent, have you assessed whether these conditions have been met? Fifthly, the Standing Committee on the Supervision of Intelligence and Security has imposed on the intelligence services that, when they receive data from foreign services, they must make minimum efforts to ascertain the way in which the information in question was obtained, in order to allow data from third countries which have been collected in a manifest unlawful manner not to be accepted where appropriate. Has such a check been carried out? If yes, according to what criteria does the ADIV establish that the information received from the Syrian secret service was not obtained in a manifest unlawful manner? Have data already been effectively refused? Sixth, more specifically, how was it ensured that this exchange is not contrary to the Convention against Torture? Seventh, the Standing Committee I also pointed out in its annual report 2016 that the mentioned directive on cooperation with foreign services was not yet sufficiently concerned with the transmission of personal data to foreign services. Has this been fixed by now? Was the ADIV, in the course of the interaction with the Syrian services, providing personal data of Belgian citizens? However, the Dutch law on intelligence and security services sets out a framework of review which cooperation should comply with. That review framework lays down requirements of necessity, fairness, care and reliability. In doing so, a risk weighting determines how far cooperation may go. Why does Belgian legislation not yet contain this? Are there any ideas on this? What plans are still on the table with the federal government and its subordinate services, in particular the ADIV, to engage in cooperation with the Assad regime in Syria? In what way has cooperation taken place over the past four years, especially as regards the exchange of information and possible joint operations?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1053x.u44	Mr Top, cooperation with foreign intelligence services is determined through strategic relations management. This approach was developed by the ADIV on the basis of the opinion of the Committee I and the directive of the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Justice in 2016. Cooperation with foreign intelligence services shall be ranked according to priority on the basis of defined criteria. The necessary possibilities and limitations are attached to this. Syria was considered an opportunity partner at the time of our operations over Syrian territory in 2016 and 2017. No information was exchanged with that opportunity partner, but contact was made to open a communication channel. That channel is extremely important if, for example, a Belgian F-16 pilot had fallen into the hands of the Syrian regime. The action of the ADIV was only aimed at knowing an identified contact point in such cases. In addition, in its 2017 Activity Report, the Committee I stated that the ADIV acted correctly. Activities with foreign intelligence services are classified. It cannot therefore be discussed in detail in this forum. For this purpose, the committee responsible for monitoring the Standing Committee I is better suited. It is possible to provide more information on that committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1053x.u45	Thank you for the explanations and your reply, Minister. I understand that you cannot make all the information available here in a public meeting, but I am concerned about the directive and control, which are kept secret. You referred to it, but the specific directives and monitoring of implementation are kept secret. In this way, it is difficult to carry out transparent controls. That is a concern I would like to express. Today, control is difficult. In the future, this should be more transparent in order to ensure proper monitoring and follow-up.
