ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic031x.u1	Questions No 55000215C by Mrs Len Dierick and No 55000362C by Mrs Frieda Gijbels are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic031x.u2	Madam President, Madam Minister, this question, which is a bit old, is still relevant at the structural level. On 13 July, the press reported that a Chinese company suspected of illegal logging had imported Gabonese timber into Belgium for four years via the port of Antwerp. The SPF Environnement is currently investigating this new case, which shows the importance of illegal timber trafficking in our country. I have already asked you several times about this issue. You have indicated that you have reorganized the relevant inspection service since the end of 2017. Thank you. I think it is now useful to make an initial assessment. Minister, how many inspectors are now assigned to the fight against timber trafficking and how many controls were carried out in 2018? Finally, have any sanctions been imposed as a result of these controls?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic031x.u3	Madam President, Member, the "Bois" team currently consists of four people, including two full-time inspectors, who are responsible for monitoring the implementation of European Regulation No 995/2010, also known as the "Bois Regulation". The other two employees are involved on a part-time basis in this legislation and these controls. The number of checks carried out in 2018 is 22. Thirteen of the controlled companies received an official warning. In accordance with the procedure, in 2018, four audit minutes at the end of 2017 were also sent to the competent Crown Prosecutor's Office. In the event of non-prosecution by the Public Prosecutor's Office, the minutes shall be forwarded to the official in charge of the FPS Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment for the initiation of an administrative fine procedure. Of the four minutes, one of them was closed by the Public Prosecutor's Office with a pre-trial probation. Another is being processed by the competent prosecutor's office. The latter two were forwarded to the officer-in-chief, who imposed two administrative fines, one of which was paid in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic031x.u4	Minister, thank you for the accuracy of your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic031x.u5	Madam President, Minister, the World Conference of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) was held in Geneva from 17 to 28 August. It brought together the 183 parties to CITES with the aim of strengthening the global wildlife trade regime. I would like to know the positions that the Belgian delegation has defended and the assessment that it has made of this important conference for the protection of biodiversity.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic031x.u6	Madam President, honourable Member, the Belgian delegation has been actively involved in the negotiations at this CITES COP and all the objectives set have been achieved, which is a good thing. Belgium had been designated as the European leader in the elephant negotiations. Three proposals were intended to change the level of their protection. Two were aimed at re-authorizing international trade in ivory in a limited manner. One objective was to provide all elephants with the highest level of protection. Belgium and the European Union were opposed to these three proposals, all of which were rejected. The status quo was therefore maintained. International trade in ivory continues to be prohibited and trade in elephant species of the four populations listed in Annex 2 (Namibia, Botswana, Zimbabwe and South Africa) is still restricted. This last point is very important because these populations remain prosperous and continue to grow. In addition, local populations remain concerned and encouraged to protect these elephants. In fact, local populations live with these animals and experience the disadvantages associated with them. It is also a reality that must be taken into account. As far as rhinoceros are concerned, the desired status quo is also maintained. Thus, the trade of the rhinoceros horn will not resume. Since 2007, we have also seen that all populations of the different species of rhinoceros, with the exception of Sumatra, are increasing, which means that the protective measures taken have the desired effect. Poaching has also been declining since 2015 and it is only now that it regains its 2013 level. Belgium has also put on the table a proposal to extend the protection of afrormosia, a species of tropical hardwood for which Belgium and the European Union are one of the main markets. The proposal was adopted by consensus. Similarly, all other species co-sponsored by Belgium and the European Union were also accepted. This is true of several species of sharks. The mako shark, the ray-guitar, and the wildfish now enjoy additional protection as well as various species of reptiles and amphibians. The giraffe was also included in Annex 2 thanks to the position that I developed quite early. The European Union has argued in line with this proposal put forward by Belgium, which will provide this mammal with additional protection. In addition, Belgium has advocated for the recognition of the role of local communities as major advocates of biodiversity and for a nuanced policy that must make sustainable trade the starting point and central element of our scientifically sound decisions. It is therefore a particularly successful conference for my administration, although the decline in biodiversity remains a major priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic031x.u7	Minister, thank you for the quality of your answer. I would also like to congratulate you on your work and administration on the results of this important conference on biodiversity. I want to share with you our concerns to ensure, over and over again, that this biodiversity is as diverse as possible, and to continue the actions already undertaken.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic031x.u8	Madam President, Minister, this summer the European Commission decided to refer this country to the European Court of Justice for the incomplete transposition of the third energy package directives. The necessary procedures were already launched in October 2014, although this was then by means of a formal letter. The reason for this is that, in the Commission's view, the regulators were not given sufficient powers and the transmission network/transport network was not fully controlled by the transmission system operator. You know that this is about, among other things, the cables of the offshore wind farms that are not fully controlled by Elia. These things sound familiar to the ears. The transposition took place when Mr Magnette was on the table and the European Commission sent a representative to a hearing in our committee, Mrs Bernaerts. She warned at that time that this would be a problem. In 2016, you answered in this committee what elements of reply you sent to the European Commission, but it is clear that it is not satisfied with that. This leads to a number of questions. Firstly, what is the analysis of your services regarding this procedure? Secondly, what steps should be taken to prevent a conviction? What initiatives are currently being taken in this current case?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic031x.u9	Mr Wollants, I have the answer here in French. I don't think that's a problem for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic031x.u10	Not in this current case, but the next minister may reply in Dutch.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic031x.u11	If you prefer that I send it to you later in Dutch, there is no problem. You tell me.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic031x.u12	Madam Secretary, start reading. You can send me the Dutch version later, which I can then look at quietly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic031x.u13	Goed! What you are talking about here is the transposition by law of 8 January 2012 of Directives 2009/72/EC (electricity) and 2009/73/EC (gas). This is therefore a referenced infringement procedure 2014/2189, initiated by the European Commission against the law of 8 January 2012 as prepared, as you said, by Minister Magnette and adopted at the end of 2011 at the initiative of Secretary of State Wathelet. The Commission considers that the law of 8 January 2012 does not properly transpose the directives I have just mentioned. The procedure is divided into two phases: the first is a formal notice and the second is a reasoned opinion. If, at the end of this written procedure, the Commission considers that transposition is lacking or inadequate, it may refer the matter to the Court of Justice. There were eighty-one grievances, even more. It was answered as much as possible in 2014 and 2015. This means that we did the job! The reasoned opinion of the European Commission in 2016 contained only seven complaints which fell under the sole federal level after clarification. There are still others that fall within the regional level. The last letter sent to the European Commission was dated 19 July 2016. Two grievances have since been resolved by the new law of 25 December 2016. So there's five left. I'll remind you what this is about. On the one hand, the IUK Gas Interconnection, for which the European Commission required it to be placed in the European regulatory framework with regard to interconnection between two Member States. We have known since the Brexit intervened a few months later and we have had to look again at this case under the Brexit Act. There are therefore five points of divergence between the European Commission and the federal government. On the other hand, the Act of 25 December 2016 solved another problem which is the CREG's power to impose pecuniary penalties, the amount of which can now be up to 10% of the turnover of an undertaking, whereas this percentage was only 3% in Belgium's initial transposition of the Directive. Unless my services err, they have not yet taken note of the specific complaints on which the Commission intends to go to the Court of Justice. The fact that the Commission is attacking Belgium before the Court of Justice does not mean that Belgium has mistranslated. Belgium has always indicated to the Commission that transposition is adequate. It is therefore up to the Court of Justice to decide. In these circumstances, it is difficult for me to tell you what action is being taken to put an end to this procedure. In other words, even after having reached the end and having responded - as we think - to the demands of the directive and those of the European Commission, there are five points on which we disagree. It is therefore of course up to the Commission to refer the matter to the European Court of Justice, if it so wishes. Then a dispute will open, after which a judgment will give the right to one of the parties. This is not a problem of legal uncertainty - and it is the lawyer who talks to you - but a conflict in the interpretation of a European directive on the territory of a Member State. Such cases sometimes have to be discussed in the courts. Between 2014 and 2015, we provided the European Commission with all the answers I have quoted from you. There is still a hard core of divergent positions between Belgium and Belgium. Of course, we're not going to shoot first. Indeed, it is up to the one who complains, to the most diligent party - in this case the European Commission - to bring a possible action before the European Court of Justice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic031x.u14	Madam President, Madam Minister, if I understand you correctly, we will wait and see what the Court makes of it, if it goes further. However, I find the following bizarre. At the time, when I was only a Member of Parliament, I mentioned this in the preparation of that law. Since at that stage the European Commission had already made observations which had not been addressed and which it did not want to meet when it was mainly about the ownership of those networks.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. We then studied it in detail in committee. At that time, both Mr Magnette and Mr Wathelet said that this would not be dealt with and that they thought it would be all right. Today we may be going to the Court of Justice. I wonder what this will lead to. It may well be that, at the end of the journey, we are still getting that conviction, as we were warned of it eight years ago.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic031x.u15	Madam President, Minister, in the framework of the Energy Transition Fund, there have been a number of calls in recent years and there have also been calls for funding for specific projects. The FPS Economy has devoted a page to this, currently containing 18 projects funded by the funds collected by the extension of the nuclear units of Objectives 1 and 2. The Royal Decree of 9 May 2017 laying down the conditions of use of the Energy Transition Fund requires those projects to report on progress in writing. At the same time, projects indicate that in some cases the duration is relatively short, so that a number of projects should be completed today, at least if the timing initially announced is correct. You were then instructed by the Council of Ministers to advance the call for 2019 by three months and to adapt the royal decision accordingly. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. Firstly, what report has the AD Energy now received and will you share it with the members of our committee? Secondly, have projects been completed and how are they evaluated? Thirdly, if I am well informed, you have not amended the royal decree and the next call will in principle just take place according to the royal decree on 15 November. Can you tell us why there has been no advance and is everything ready to launch this call by 15 November at the latest?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic031x.u16	Mr Wollants, in line with the call of 30 June 2017 and the call of December 2017, a report should indeed be made annually and at the end of the project by the beneficiary of the grant on the basis of which the General Energy Directorate is carrying out an interim evaluation. This reporting concerns both the evolution in the implementation of the project in the light of the project proposal initially submitted and approved, and the compliance with the technical and financial criteria of the call and the provisions of the grant agreement. Afterwards, the payment of the next subsidy disc may be requested by the beneficiary, where appropriate, on the basis of a positive mid-term evaluation. For projects which have been in progress for more than 12 months, a report on the first 12 months of implementation was received by the General Energy Directorate, which will be the subject of an evaluation in the near future. On the website of the FPS Economy you will indeed find an overview of the subsidised projects, including their duration. The call and grant agreement requires beneficiaries to publish publicly the results or key conclusions of the project realised after its completion, indicating "with the support of the Energy Transition Fund'. However, technical and financial reporting on the progress of the projects is not, in principle, published publicly. In reply to your second question, I confirm that projects have already been completed. The evaluation at the end of such projects shall be carried out in accordance with the rules of the call and with the criteria set out therein and in accordance with the provisions of the grant agreement. In particular, the full and correct implementation of the project proposal initially submitted and approved shall also be verified. Finally, I confirm that the publication of the call will be prepared and will take place by 15 November 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic031x.u17	Madam Minister, I think it is indeed important that we get a look at these evaluations. It is absolutely right that we should be able to carry out these projects by extending the Objective 1 and 2 nuclear power stations. That is much more concrete than what happened to the EUR 10 million we once received from Tihange 1. We know the story where 10 million euros were deposited. That is probably the last thing we will ever see from Tihange 1. This amount still has to be divided into two different funds, because I believe that these funds still exist. A fund is intended to increase competitiveness and another fund is intended to cover the costs of the offshore. With two thirds of EUR 10 million, the impact will be rather low. In any case, we must follow that closely. You did not answer my question as to why you did not advance the call by three months, as requested by the Council of Ministers. I can see that in the communication of the Council of Ministers, that you are being asked to do so, but you say that this will simply be published on the regular date of 15 November. I find it a little strange that you did not respond to the question you were asked by the Council of Ministers. It may be up to your successor to organise this in a different way.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic031x.u18	Minister, the topic of Questions à la fronte on September 18, 2019 was once again alerting us to the management of our waste. According to the SPF Economy, Belgium produces around 715,000 tonnes of plastic waste per year (2016 figure), representing 1.1% of total waste generation in Belgium. Belgium would be the fifth largest exporter of waste in the world. According to Greenpeace, in 2018, 530,000 tonnes of Belgian waste were exported to other continents, of which 33 000 tonnes landed in Malaysia. [[The reason for this would be the lower cost of local labour.]] Normally, these wastes must be handled in recycling plants. However, the survey of Questions à la Fronte shows that Belgian plastic packaging usually ends up in wild landfills. Our waste therefore has a negative impact on the health of local populations and on the environment and feeds illegal local channels. Minister, do you confirm the information we have received from this investigation? How do you explain that Belgian waste is found in wild landfills away from our country? What does Belgium intend to do to better control the stages of treatment of its waste, until the actual recycling as provided for in the waste management contracts? What will Belgium undertake to ensure that the plastics produced are fully recyclable? What does Belgium intend to do to improve its waste treatment systems, limit as much as possible the export of its waste and move as quickly as possible towards self-sufficiency in recycling?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic031x.u19	Madam Member, like you, I am sensitive to this problem, but I have no competence in this matter. It is therefore appropriate for you to send your requests on this subject to the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic031x.u20	Madam Minister, I understand the problems of competence and that we are stuck between European directives and regional problems. As far as the environment is concerned, the federal state must do a little more than send the ball back to the regions. This concerns both public health and environmental issues. I am somewhat disappointed by the fact that the federal government is able to wash its hands of problems that are binding on the populations concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic031x.u21	There is a real misunderstanding that needs to be lifted immediately so that we can understand each other well during this Parliament. The federal government absolutely does not wash its hands of anything, but every level of power must work in its area of competence and cannot under any circumstances intervene in the competences of other levels of power. This is a federalism of cooperation, where everyone exercises their powers in an exclusive manner. Intervening in the jurisdictions of others would be a fault that would result in procedures between authorities. This must be clear in your mind in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic031x.u22	Madam President, I wanted to make it clear that the Regions are also working on the issue of plastic. We will come back to that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic031x.u23	Minister, this issue was discussed in plenary two weeks ago. That is why, if you agree, I will only ask you what answers the federal government has obtained as a result of the soil analyses commissioned by the AFSCA. You're going to tell me that this one is not within your competence. Unfortunately, I'm being referred from committee to committee. The Crisis Centre informs me that measures have been taken by the federal government. However, as it is difficult to keep abreast of the environmental impacts of the Lubrizol plant cloud, I would like to hear from you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic031x.u24	As far as pollution monitoring is concerned, this is the responsibility of the Regions. Only a regional minister can question CELINE (the Interregional Environment Cell), since the federal authority is not competent and lacks the necessary tools - in this case, an analytical laboratory and an expert - to assess the severity of air and soil pollution. Under Article 6, § 1, II, 1 of the Special Act of 8 August 1980 on institutional reforms, the protection of the environment, in particular that of soil, subsoil, water and air against pollution and aggression, falls within the competence of the Regions. In this case, I am applying what I answered to you on the occasion of your previous question. As for the protection of the food chain and the collaboration with the AFSCA, I obviously refer you to the Minister of Agriculture, who is responsible for the latter. I am surprised that you are being thrown from committee to committee, since this part is entirely within its competence. In any case, the first question to ask is whether the AFSCA has performed any analyses. And if so, were they necessary? In fact, the first instance to intervene in this case is CELINE - which is the responsibility of the regional ministers of the environment. That is why I refer you to your Minister Tellier in the Walloon Region. As regards the involvement of the federal authority in the event of a crisis, it concerns the management of events which require national coordination. For further information on the functioning and capabilities of the federal government in such circumstances, you should ask the Minister of the Interior. However, since we do not find ourselves in a situation of national disaster requiring an emergency plan, it is not concerned. Like me, you have seen that there has been a reaction from the Belgian authorities and that analyses have been made. I don't know by whom, probably by CELINE's analysis labs if they own them. I'm moving a little bit forward because I don't know. But one thing is certain is that the Federal Crisis Centre did not intervene because we were not in a context that required its intervention. The thresholds of the standards which were examined in the light of the facts, were not exceeded by the spread of harmful smokes between Thursday and Friday, this famous cloud pushed in us by the winds and which crossed Belgium on an axis which had rather impacted Wallonia and part of the Walloon Brabant, if I remember correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic031x.u25	Minister, this is essentially Hainaut. Communication difficulties persist between France and Belgium. Even if there is no national disaster, we are nevertheless confirmed that international communications with France are on the order of the federal government and that difficulties remain. These issues will be discussed with Minister De Crem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic031x.u26	Madam President, Minister, on Sunday there is a demonstration in Brussels of people in favour of nuclear energy. These people also exist and nuclear energy remains part of the solution to climate change for them. Of course, there is also nuclear waste. The storage of radioactive waste is the responsibility of NIRAS, which falls within your competence and that of your colleague from the Economy. The State-owned Belgoprocess responsible for the treatment of nuclear waste in our country warns in its annual report that the storage capacity for low-radioactive waste in Dessel is almost complete. For certain types of low-radioactive waste, Belgoprocess indicates that it is at the limit. Belgoprocess has finally received the approval of the FANC to expand the 151X building on the Dessel site. However, this new hall will not be put into operation until 2021. Normally, that should have happened four years ago. However, this is an emergency solution, an interim solution to a final disposal of the waste. The aim is to build a new final processing plant on which the FANC had to give its first opinion this month. The longer the construction of this new, final disposal plant takes, the greater the problem of intermediate storage. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. Firstly, what measures are being taken to provide sufficient capacity in the meantime? Until the annex is finished, Belgoprocess needs to find alternatives to store the low-radioactive waste. Secondly, what is the state of play with regard to the research of the NIRAS on the storage of high-level radioactive waste in underground clay layers, the so-called geological disposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic031x.u27	Madam President, Madam Minister, in Belgium, we have been trying to determine for more than thirty years whether it is possible to bury our highly radioactive waste in the clay layer of Boom in the province of Antwerp. However, the landfill of highly radioactive waste in this clay layer faces a number of problems. The layer is not deep enough or thick enough, it could not withstand the heat emitted by these nuclear wastes, and it lies just above our country's second groundwater table. According to a recent Greenpeace report, in the current situation, nuclear waste treatment would cost more than ten billion euros, not three, as originally planned. Because of these problems, it is necessary to bury the waste deeper, which greatly increases the costs. Minister, could you provide an update on the provisions for nuclear waste management at the power plants, including the government's current requirements for Electrabel? Could you also clarify whether the costs of nuclear waste are well covered? A law providing that Electrabel cannot reduce its own funds below a minimum level could guarantee the company's management of nuclear waste. This minimum level should then correspond to the worst case scenario of the cost of nuclear waste and the decommissioning of power plants. Have you ever considered introducing such laws? If there are obstacles to implementing such a law, what would they be? What other solution do you see in dealing with the problem of nuclear waste?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic031x.u28	Madam President, Mr Ravyts, your first question deals with low-radioactive waste and surface storage. The processing plant to which you refer is actually the final, above ground recovery plant, the so-called cAt project in Dessel. Prior to the construction of this disposal plant, NRAS should obtain a federal nuclear creation and operation permit and an environmental permit. The federal licence shall be issued by royal decree on a proposal from the Federal Nuclear Control Agency, the FANC. The application for authorisation was submitted by the organism in 2013. In 2013, the FANC declared the dossier submitted incomplete and raised a total of 300 questions. Following a round of questions and answers, at the end of 2017, the FANC considered all its questions to be answered correctly by the NIRAS. In February 2019, NRAS submitted a completed application for authorisation to the FANC. At the beginning of September 2019, the FANC fully declared the application for authorisation and submitted it to its Scientific Council for its opinion. If the prior opinion of the Scientific Council is favourable, the public procedure shall commence. The Scientific Council will then reconvene to formulate a final opinion. If this opinion is favourable, the federal permit for the final above-ground disposal plant shall be granted by royal decree on a proposal from the Federal Nuclear Control Agency. The organism informed me that the environmental permit will be applied for in October 2019. The public procedure would coincide with the federal procedure and would be organised in 2019. Without objections, the licence could be delivered by the competent authority by 2020. Current planning provides for the start of operation in 2024. However, a number of peripheral infrastructures have already been authorised and are currently being built. In order to cover the period until the beginning of the operation of the final surface storage, the Board of Directors of NIRAS decided on 14 December 2018 to anticipate a possible overfill of storage capacity by investing in the construction of a small extension of the existing temporary storage building 151X on the Belgoprocess site. This extension takes place at around 5,000 barrels, corresponding to the production of low-level short-lived waste for five years. The contract for the realisation of this extension was approved on the Management Board of the NIRAS of 21 June 2019. According to the current implementation plan, the construction works will be completed by the end of 2020 and the extension will be put into operation at the beginning of 2021. Pending the entry into operation of this extension, newly produced low-active waste is stored distributed, in accordance with existing permits on the various available storage buildings on the site operated by Belgoprocesses, where sufficient storage capacity is still available for two years of production. The NIRAS confirms to me that this extension of the storage facility will provide sufficient storage capacity until the start of operation of the above-ground storage facility in Dessel. For this reason, the NIRAS also confirmed to me at the beginning of September 2019 that there is no shortage of storage space. Your second question concerns the research of the NIRAS on the geological disposal of highly radioactive waste. The research carried out by the organism for more than 40 years has not revealed any insurmountable element which would prevent geological disposal of highly radioactive waste in underground clay layers. The first in-depth technical scientific evaluation of the PRACLAY experiment, the large-scale heating experiment that has been under way since 2014 in the underground laboratory HADES, operated by EURIDICE, the economic cooperation between the NIRAS and the SCK, confirms that the final disposal of high-level radioactive waste in underground clay layers is possible. The R&D activities therefore continue and support the development of a decision on the first phase of national policies on high-activity long-life waste. Mr Warmoes, in addition to your questions, I should first like to point out to you that it is important in this complex matter to choose its terms carefully and not to confuse the treatment of nuclear waste with geological storage, which is definitive. It is for the geological storage of medium- and long-term high-activity nuclear waste, which I have just mentioned to Mr Ravyts, that ONDRAF estimated the cost of the reference scenario at EUR 10.7 billion or EUR 8 billion, depending on whether or not it included different uncertainties on the reference scenario under analysis by the end of 2020, as I said. I have explicitly recommended to the Nuclear Supplies Commission, in a cautious approach, that the highest amount be taken into account in its evaluations of the three-year re-evaluation exercise of the statutory provisions, which is currently under way. At the end of 2018, provisions in the nuclear supply company, Synatom, amounted to more than 11 billion euros. These provisions cover a component intended to cover the estimated cost of future costs for the decommissioning of nuclear power plants up to EUR 4.9 billion and a component intended to cover the estimated cost of the management of irradiated fissile material at these plants up to EUR 6.1 billion. It should be noted that Electrabel and Synatom are not the only producers of radioactive waste, you must know that. Other actors, such as SCK-CEN, IRE, nuclear liabilities borne by the Federal State, hospitals, universities, etc., also produce waste that must be managed by ONDRAF. Attention should also be paid to this: ONDRAF will not put all radioactive waste in a geological disposal facility. Low- and medium-level, short-lived wastes, which are A-waste, the most significant in relation to others, will be deposited in the future surface final storage facility, which I mentioned in my response to Mr. Ravyts. These wastes are not covered by Reference Case B and C, which are the most hazardous and highly radioactive wastes. In order to ensure optimal coverage of radioactive waste costs, ONDRAF must make the best possible estimate on the basis of current technical knowledge. To do this, given the long delays and the national policy decision we have taken for waste management B and C, ONDRAF is preparing, at the request of the Minister of Economy and myself, an environmental investigation and public consultation. It is important for ONDRAF to develop a baseline financial scenario for waste B and C taking into account all the technical and regulatory elements known to date. It is on the basis of this scenario, and only on the basis of that scenario, that the Commission for Nuclear Supplies, in turn, is looking at the existence, sufficiency and availability of provisions for nuclear power plant operators. This exactly meets the legal requirement. It is clear to me that the law on nuclear provisions needs to be adapted on several points in order to strengthen the legal framework and guarantee, at all times, the existence, sufficiency and availability of nuclear supplies at the appropriate time. This is also necessary to strengthen the control and transparency of nuclear supply systems in Belgium. The solution you are proposing is an approach, but it is not the only one possible. As you know, I worked on proposals to improve the legislation of April 11, 2003, through a draft bill that was passed by the government in July 2018, but that could not yet be voted by Parliament. I tabled it through several parliamentary groups in the form of bills at the beginning of this year. We must, of course, wait for political groups to take up this issue again to work on it and to make it move forward. We will see what the next government will do about it and what position it will take on it. I believe, however, that overall, there is a consensus to strengthen the legal framework to provide Belgium with an environment of increased transparency and control over the mechanism of nuclear supplies. However, I am certain that the Commission on Nuclear Supplies, which is an expert and independent commission, has since 2018 benefited from an important annual budget, which had been expected since 2003. It is thanks to my action that the Commission has this budget, which is the responsibility of Synatom. I will continue to make recommendations and proposals, as well as to carry out quality work with the bodies to enable them to assess these provisions and to exercise their supervisory role on an ongoing basis. I can assure you that this work is done very seriously and independently by the institutions. As I have just explained, these institutions need an additional budget, which is likely to increase when we strengthen the legal framework of the law of 11 April 2003. As it will take decades for jurisdictions to manage a problem, they will need to be given additional skills, which will allow them to conduct financial assessments over a very long period of time, and to manage the provisioning technique, also in the long term. Indeed, all this will bring us to around 2100-2120. Maybe we'll still be here. Anyway, as far as I'm concerned, I'll be very old. In any event, it is likely that we would have to prepare the work for our successors so that all of this would follow without any difficulty, knowing that this is an extremely delicate problem that relates to a potentially very dangerous situation for the human environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic031x.u29	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your very detailed reply, and in particular for your Dutch, great. I wish my French was so good, I mean it sincerely. You've given a lot of important answers. We will be able to discuss this further in the Subcommittee on Nuclear Safety, of which the President is present. We will follow up closely the whole dossier on the Nuclear Commission and perhaps we will also support the legislative amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic031x.u30	Minister, thank you for your answers. I am pleased to note that we share the same concerns. This legal framework will need to be strengthened and we will have to do our part in Parliament. You agree with me that this is in the direction of strengthening the powers of the Commission on nuclear supplies and the financial resources available for the storage of waste. The question remains who will pay. On the basis of the polluter pays principle, we believe that this is the responsibility of the producers of nuclear waste.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic031x.u31	They're the ones who pay! The billions I told you about are from ENGIE Electrabel. This is indeed the polluter pays principle, a principle that we have further strengthened in the bill I have mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic031x.u32	That's what I meant. This situation must continue and these companies must not escape it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic031x.u33	Question No 55001044C by Mr Thierry Warmoes is transformed into a written question.
