ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1028x.u1	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this question is interesting and could be dealt with, especially the answer, in a lot of academic studies, given the very important consequences, in particular, for the safety of potential victims. This question concerns the distinction between confessional secrecy and professional secrecy. My attention was drawn to information published in December 2018. A priest was sentenced to one month's suspended imprisonment by the Bruges Correctional Court following the suicide of a faithful man who had confided in him. The priest had invoked the secret of confession. The court replied that the secrecy of the confession was tantamount to professional secrecy and that it was therefore not absolute in case of serious danger. This resulted in a rather interesting public debate, with central questions: is the secrecy of confession and professional secrecy the same? Is the secret of confession superior to professional secrecy under canon law? A statement from the Episcopal Conference of Belgium recited this judgment. He argues that personal information shared during an interview between a faithful and a priest may be either the character of professional secrecy or, as the case may be, the character of confessional secrecy. The Belgian Episcopal Conference also recognized that criminal law (Article 458bis of the Criminal Code) provides that chaplains are the custodians of professional secrecy. On the other hand, the Conference places the secret of confession related to the sacrament of penance above criminal law by alleging that "according to the Code of Canon Law, the secret of confession is inviolable. That is why it is absolutely forbidden for the confessor to betray in anything a penitent by words or in any other way, and for any cause whatsoever." It is also stated that "the inviolability of confessional secrecy also applies to civil authorities or to justice". This statement is not annoyed, as it seems to me to be a lot of problems. Minister, I come to my questions. To the extent that canon law is not part of our legal order in positive law, could you clarify the nature of the intervention of the custodians of professional secrecy in a liturgical or religious context? Would it not be useful to formally remind the authorities concerned of the pre-eminence of civil law over any other right, especially religious, in order to avoid tragedies similar to that which led to the condemnation of the Brugesian priest?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1028x.u2	Mrs Onkelinx, article 458 of the Criminal Code provides for the protection of professional secrecy in a fairly general way. The secret of confession is expressly considered by the ecclesiastical authorities to be a particular form of professional secrecy, because it is linked to the sacrament of confession. Unlike criminal law, ecclesiastical law does not provide for exceptions to the secrecy of confession. Since criminal law is of public order and is worth erga omnes, it takes precedence over ecclesiastical law and applies equally to the priests in question. In criminal law, professional secrecy is extremely important, but is not absolute. As for your second question, I will address it at my next meeting with representatives of cults and philosophical beliefs.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1028x.u3	Minister, I am quite on the same page as you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1028x.u4	Mrs Lambrecht is sick.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1028x.u5	Mr President, Minister, listening to a consumer programme from time to time will teach us something. The Inspector's programme recently revealed that more than 50 000 people are still waiting for the reimbursement of an unduly paid fine. The Federal Ombudsman also called the alarm. What's it about? These are people who have accidentally overpaid and are waiting for a refund. However, it also concerns a number of people who, due to a fault of the Traffic Fine platform, paid twice because they received two bills although they only committed one offence. That platform has been operational since summer 2017. A dispute procedure cannot be done digitally and the telephone helpdesk is paying. Hence my questions. Do you have any idea when the more than 50 000 wrongly paid fines will be repaid? Can you or can you not give a deadline for that? What is the total amount of outstanding fines to be repaid? When will it be possible to challenge the fines or address complaints in a digital way, something that cannot be done today. Have the children's diseases of the system such as the double sending of a fine for the same offence been resolved and removed from the system? Finally, how do you evaluate the platform? Please note that fines have been better paid since the system entered into force or are not.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1028x.u6	Mr President, Mrs De Wit, as mentioned in an earlier reply, the results of the crossborder project are very satisfactory. One of the main objectives of this project is the better collection of all criminal penalties related to traffic and this at different levels from the immediate collections, the friendly settlements, the orders to pay and the pronounced conviction. The figures show a major improvement in the collection of fines. For example, 30 percent more fines have been processed since the start of the project, almost half a million files have been processed and more than half a billion euros of fines are collected annually. In the first semester of this year, the execution of the order for payment at Justice will also be fully digital. As reported by the Federal Ombudsman, a number of citizens who had made incorrect payments are waiting for reimbursement. A large number of checks must be carried out before reimbursement is possible. These checks are almost complete. I can inform you that 44 000 files will be refunded this week. The remaining files will be repaid before the end of the month. The total amount will be EUR 3 150 129. Of course, it remains necessary to adapt the crossborder platform to the needs of the future. Given the increasing number of files to be processed, the necessary investments will continue to be made in 2019 to further optimise this system. Justice is currently examining, in close consultation with the various chain partners, what can be done to maximise the simplification of the procedure for contesting facts and individuals. For the figures on the effective recovery of the funds relating to the penalties, I have to refer to my colleague in the finance department. I can tell you that, in close consultation with him, I am taking the necessary initiatives to organise the digital transmission of data between our two departments. Once automation and digitalization are a reality, we will be able to answer numbers-related questions much more easily. To this end, a specific business intelligence project was launched.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1028x.u7	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I am very pleased to hear that the reimbursement for almost everyone will follow very quickly. It's obvious that you're also checking that refund. That makes sense to me. It is to be hoped that the childhood diseases will be solved and that they will not happen again. What is also good about hearing is that 30 percent more fines are collected than before. That inning used to be an Achilles heel. If we can solve this problem by means of computerisation and digitisation, a step forward has also been taken in this area. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1028x.u8	Mr Minister, I tabled this question yesterday morning. Meanwhile, something has happened fairly well, but the essence of my question remains relevant. As we know, on Monday 4 February, the press reported some exhilarating statements by former Flemish Minister of Environment, Nature and Agriculture Joke Schauvliege during a speech to the General Farmers' Syndicate. She said there that she suspected that the climate demonstrations were based on an act of revenge against her person. In addition, it claimed that it had received information on this matter from the State's security. The Security of the State has immediately denied this, which is remarkable, because the Security of the State does not communicate so quickly what it does or does not do and what advice it gives or does not give. Yesterday, the Minister publicly apologized for her statements. She claimed that she had not had direct contact with the State's security. It also stated, however, that it had not lied but merely faltered. Last night she also talked about information she hadn't verified. Hence a number of questions, Minister. Firstly, can you confirm that the security of the State did not indeed contact Minister Schauvliege about the alleged intentions of the people behind the climate demonstrations? Secondly, and this is, of course, the essence of my question, is the State's security following the climate demonstrations and organizers of the various climate demonstrations? If so, for what precise reason, laid down in the Law of 30 November 1998? Thirdly, Article 4 of the Act of 30 November 1998 regulating the intelligence and security services provides that the security of the State shall carry out its tasks, I quote: 'through the intervention of the Minister of Justice, in accordance with the guidelines of the National Security Council'. My question is therefore very specific: have you intervened within the meaning of Article 4 of this law? If so, for what precise reason? If no, I am satisfied. Has a directive been issued by the National Security Council within the meaning of Article 4 of this law? If so, for what reason? In other words, is the State's security currently dealing with everything related to these climate demonstrations, to follow them up, to post them, to follow up the organizers, and the like? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1028x.u9	Mr Van Hecke, I can effectively confirm that there has been no communication between Minister Schauvliege and State Security. In the meantime, Minister Schauvliege has confirmed this himself and has apologized. You know she's resigned by now. The security of the State does not follow the climate test and its organisers. However, should infiltration attempts by extreme left or right-wing entities be identified at some point in the organisation of these demonstrations, threats which the State's Security is supposed to follow up, the State's Security will investigate them further, but that is not the case at the moment. I did not intervene in this matter and there was no National Security Council directive.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1028x.u10	Mr President, Minister, I am very pleased with your answer, which was very clear. I understand that state security will continue to monitor everything, including threats of infiltration by the extreme right or the extreme left. It seems that this has been analysed in relation to the demonstrations of the yellow hoists. In their communication, it was confirmed that they are following that. If that happens, I can understand your answer. However, the message must be clear. It certainly should not be a priority of state security to screen demonstrations organised by students and to see who is behind them. State security has far more important priorities than that. However, your answer has reassured me.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1028x.u11	Mr President, Minister, I had tabled my questions on state security as four oral questions, but I note that the questions have now been merged under one item on the agenda. My questions are based on an important risk analysis of psychosocial well-being carried out about a year ago at State Security and the results of which have become known in the meantime. Following the Paris attacks in 2015, the State Security decided to restructure, called VSSE 2021, with the aim of improving the management of threats and improving the management of information and reforming information and documentation tools. The risk analysis psychosocial well-being, to which I referred earlier, shows that these problems do indeed need to be addressed urgently. The staff of the Security of the State considers the structure of the organisation to be opaque and illogical and considers that cooperation between the services is not working smoothly. 75% consider that the information channels are working badly, which is nevertheless hallucinating for a service such as State Security, where information exchange is essential. The problem is, however, that staff do not feel involved in the planned restructuring. 90% does not feel sufficiently involved in the implementation of the restructuring and more than 70% does not consider the objective to be clear. That is a sobering statement: restructuring is taking place, but not on the basis of the concerns of the staff. We still have to wait and see if the functioning of the State's security will improve. I have the following specific questions, Minister. How did the restructuring plans come about? Was the staff also consulted and involved? If not, why not? Who designed the plans and on what basis did that happen? Will the plans for restructuring respond to complaints from State Security staff? If so, to what extent or in what way? If not, would you like to change that? Are you considering a review of the restructuring plans or will you instruct them to be revised on the basis of staff input? If so, how and when will this be addressed? If not, why not, and will it not have any negative consequences? A second question I have tabled concerns the business culture and harassment, which is reflected in the report. The risk analysis psychosocial well-being shows that the State Security has a problem with unwanted cross-border behaviour. The State's security scores worse on harassment, discrimination and sexual harassment than most Belgian companies. There is no need to explain that this has a major impact on the health and safety of workers. Moreover, it appears that more than half of the employees of the State Safety consider that the organisation is not committed enough to ensure their safety and mental health. The withholding of information often appears to be part of the harassment, which is detrimental to a service such as State Security. The business culture is not ideal either, because those who make mistakes are pointed at, rather than being given the opportunity to learn from it. This can ensure that errors are not corrected, which is essential. I have the following questions. Are you aware of the large number of complaints about unwanted cross-border behaviour? If so, what have you done to do about it? If not, would you like to investigate and deal with it? The analysis shows that there have been dozens of charges. We need to take a firm stand against that. Is that what happened? Where were these complaints filed? How are the complaints processed? What happened to the staff members against whom a complaint was made? How are victims taken care of? Staff members of the State Safety consider that the employer is not doing enough to ensure their safety and health. Do you have a plan to do that? If so, what is the plan? Does it also pay attention to corporate culture? If not, why not? What alternatives do you propose? The analysis shows that few find their way to the confidant. Do you want to make the trusted person more accessible? If so, how do you intend to do that? If not, why not? What alternative measures can be proposed? I come to my third question, about dissatisfaction and staff outflow, based on the risk analysis psychosocial well-being. This shows that the staff is generally less satisfied, less passionate and less intent to stay than the average employee in average companies in Belgium. Moreover, the statistics seem to indicate that those who only work in the security of the State are satisfied and want to stay. However, employees in the category with 10 to 15 years seniority leave very low scores and have very little sense of staying with the State's Security. They also experience less support from managers and colleagues and suffer from more stress and burn-outs. That is remarkable and worrying. In addition to the general well-being of the staff of the State Security, the experience gained by employees is very important for the operation and efficiency of our intelligence services. If employees don't want to stay, that's a big problem. I have questions about that. Are you aware of the dissatisfaction of employees with greater seniority? If so, what have you already done to meet this? If not, would you like to investigate further? How many employees have left State Security in the last five years? Can you give an overview of the number of years of seniority at the time of leaving the service and the exact service where they were employed at the time they left the service? Does state outtake security hold calls? If so, what are the main reasons cited for leaving the State's security? If not, would you ask to do so? Do you want to invest in better guidance for employees by developing a clear policy on burn-out and stress? If so, by when do you wish to do so? If not, why not? My final question concerns the means of action. Last year, you announced that state security would receive a budget of 57 million euros for 2018. This is an increase over the amount in 2014, when it was around EUR 46 million, but it seems not enough. The State Security Summit already indicated that the budget should actually be tripled and staff doubled. It is true that the burden of State security is also increasing and the limited increase in the budget does not necessarily lead to an improvement. This is also demonstrated by the risk analysis psychosocial well-being in the State Security of March 2018. In addition, there is a clear lack of adequate operating resources. The study shows that 48% of employees regularly or almost always have insufficient resources to carry out their work properly. Many staff also complain about working conditions, in particular about lighting and air quality. It is therefore clear that the State's security remains structurally underfunded. I therefore have the following questions, Minister. Are you aware of the problems that the risk analysis reveals? If so, what have you done? If not, would you like to investigate the matter further and address it? The report calls for the results of the analysis to be returned to the staff. Is that what happened? If so, what are the results of that feedback? Were there any priorities set? If not, is that feedback planned? If not, why not? Are we working on a plan to fix the problems? If so, what does it look like? What problems will be addressed first and when will this happen? If not, why not? Finally, would you like to increase the state's security budget? I understand, however, that with a government in current affairs that will not be evident and is therefore an exercise for the next legislature. If so, in what order of magnitude? Will that be enough and is it on a structural basis? If not, why not and what alternatives do you propose? So far, a whole series of questions that are actually the result of a risk analysis that has recently emerged.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1028x.u12	Mr President, Minister, it is my responsibility that an IDEWE survey of State Security personnel reveals overwhelming results and shows a very problematic situation among staff. Of particular concern are some figures concerning 51 per cent of the staff interviewed: insufficient resources to carry out missions, demotivation (40 per cent of respondents stated that they did not want to remain at the Sûreté); the structure of the Sûreté not optimal according to 7 out of 10 employees; the total lack of communication on reform according to 90 per cent of staff; and the lack of clarity on reform according to 70 per cent of staff. Thus, for example, the leader of Russian counter-espionage - a large person - considering he is poorly paid, left his post in 2017 to join the Walloon Region where he seems to be much better paid. According to this investigation, the staff of the Sûreté are demotivated and little considered. Moreover, he has no prospect of the future. Despite the working groups that were set up after the survey to identify problems and propose concrete solutions – which was considered positive – the staff were concerned that this was a "cosmetic" manoeuvre since the problems were long identified. This situation is truly worrying when the institution is fundamental to national security and problems and difficulties have already been pointed out. I am thinking in particular of the lack of responsiveness to ensure our safety. At the moment, we can only see the failures of this investigation. The Attentats Commission had insisted on this issue and recommended that more human and financial resources be given and, above all, that an intelligence officer be defined with attractive remuneration. Minister, what information do you have about the situation in the Sûreté? How will you act to ensure that this institution so important to our national security is modernized, professionalized and truly an effective tool with adequate resources? When are you finally going to put in place this status as an intelligence officer that was already being discussed in 2016 within the framework of the Attentats Commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1028x.u13	Mr Van Hecke, Mr Dallemagne, research into well-being must be framed in a roadmap. The fact that it was ordered bears witness to all the desire to detect problems, which is a requirement to seek solutions. The security of the State has, of course, not limited itself to the questions of the investigation. The results were presented to staff at the beginning of September last year. Four working groups were set up at the organisation, with the participation of some 50 staff, who indicated their willingness to participate in the evaluation. I myself spoke about the investigation with the management and with the persons in the Security of the State who follow up the work. The aim is to achieve a multi-annual plan for prevention by autumn 2019. This will then be converted into annual action plans. The aspects of well-being and safety are included. The Roadmap should allow to improve the functioning of the State Security and the well-being of the agents. As far as the complaints, the inappropriate behaviours and the complaints mentioned are concerned, I do not question the fact that the investigation shows a feeling that must be taken seriously. At the same time, however, it should be noted that there has only been a formal complaint, which dates back to 2015. It was treated in accordance with the applicable procedures. "State Security Strategy for 2021', an internal exercise of State Security, responds to the mandate given by the previous government in the appointment of the administrator-general and his deputy. Internal problems identified since an audit in 2008 or raised by the Committee I are being addressed. It is also necessary to meet the expectations of staff and trade unions expressed in working groups. The strategy is based on a benchmarking carried out on the basis of the three neighbouring countries. In particular, the aim is to review the survey model and support workers with strong ICT arguments. Communication efforts are being made including a newsletter and ad hoc information meetings. User groups for IT projects will be institutionalised. A report on the subject shall be drawn up for trade union representatives after each consultation committee. Staff input will be taken into account at the different stages of implementation. I'm going to the departures and recruitments. With regard to departures, 62 people have left the service over the last five years. Forty-five per cent of these separations are due to the pension. As a result, there have been fewer than 35 departures for other reasons over five years, approximately seven per year. This means that 1% of staff leave each year for reasons other than pension. Outtake interviews have been well organised as far as possible since September 2016. Between that time and December 2017, five officers who had left the Sûreté agreed to submit to the exercise. There was a suspension in 2018 for reasons of capacity, but also to develop a more systematic approach. A recent decision has been taken in this direction, and the outtake interviews will now involve the Human Resources Department, psychologists and the security officer. In the last legislature, 191 employees were recruited by the State Security Office, of which more than 140 were recruited after the attacks in 2016. When we take into account the departure of 40 security assistants to the federal police, we can record a net increase in the effective rate of more than 10%. This means, of course, that a huge organisational absorption capacity is required, especially since the majority of recruitments have taken place in recent years. In addition, on 30 November, a procedure was opened with Selor to establish an additional recruitment reserve of 500 Dutch-speaking and 500 French-speaking inspectors. That should allow the State's security to recruit more smoothly in the future. As regards the budget, the initial State Security budget has increased since the 2016 attacks from 44.1 million euros in 2016 to 64.2 million euros in available resources in 2018. This is an increase of 45%. The increase is largely based on additional resources obtained in the fight against terrorism. The additional resources are intended, on the one hand, for the strengthening of services and, therefore, structural, and, on the other hand, for investments such as the development of a new operational database. I now come to my comments on the Statute. Work is continuing to review the status of Security Officers to ensure the uniqueness of their status, as I have previously announced. Discussions are ongoing between management and unions. The objective remains to have a draft royal decree for the end of the legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1028x.u14	Minister, the answer is more concise than the many questions, some of which you have not dealt with in detail. I will read your answer, for which I thank you, by the way. I realise that it was indeed short notice to prepare everything thoroughly. Minister, I understand from your reply that we must take the report very seriously. If the government believes that the security of the State has a very important role to play, not only in the protection against terrorism and the protection of our country............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I am thinking not only of the psychosocial conditions, but also of the means of action. This is not the case. I have not heard in your reply how the State's security will really deal with that. Four working groups have been set up in which work will be started. The report already exists in March, it was communicated to the staff in September and we are now early February. The report is almost a year old. I think an organisation should be able to really tackle the main bottlenecks in the report. We must also be able to put a timeline on it when we are going to tackle what problem. I'm missing a plan of action to provide real answers to that pretty destructive investigation, that's what happened. I was also very surprised that the Committee I, which supervises the intelligence services, was apparently not aware of the report. If there are such serious problems in the internal organisation, if there is even "unwellness" of the staff, far worse than average in other companies or organisations, and the Committee I is not aware of this, then this raises questions. These questions must then be put in a different place. In any case, I hope that you, as the competent minister, will keep an eye on the matter. I hope that the security of the State will really regard this as a priority and that the Committee I will make the report its own and draw the necessary conclusions from it and possibly launch further research. I think we really need to evolve into a state-of-the-art security. That is one of the important yards ahead of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1028x.u15	Mr. Minister of Justice, thank you for your answer. I must also say that I expected you to have a more important form of popping up on this issue. You describe and remind us of the processes under way, but that is precisely what is problematic. These processes are obviously not fast enough and efficient. They do not respond to the serious problems raised by this IDEWE investigation and by State Security personnel in general. There is clearly a problem of motivation, performance and resources. These problems have long been known. I have reviewed our work of the Terrorist Attacks Commission. In particular, it states that at the time, for example, you requested that there be a change in the status of staff working in our various intelligence services and that this status be consistent between the various intelligence agencies. Nevertheless, we are still at the same point. This report goes back three years! That's very worrying. The good news is that you seem to say that you will be able to finish before the end of the legislature. I really hope so, because this staff upgrading is an extremely important element. I didn't check the numbers, but no one ever contradicted the fact that our agents were significantly less well paid than other intelligence officers in our neighbouring countries since you're talking about benchmarking with them. Similarly, there is no dispute that wages are not at all attractive in relation to a range of State agencies, whether they are the federal state or the federated entities. This poses a problem in relation to strategic services for our country. Yesterday, party presidents were summoned by the Sûreté de l'Etat in preparation for the elections to warn them about the possible manipulation of electoral processes. If within the agency there are no sufficiently motivated personnel, if in terms of counter-intelligence we do not have the best people because they have left the State Security or want to do so, this is a problem. I say this too because we have alarm signals like these, not only for the State Security, but also for the SSRS (the General Intelligence and Security Service). In addition, I have seen that DR3 (the anti-terrorist section of the federal police) is also having difficulties today. A whole series of visionaries are back in the red with regard to agencies that are extremely important to our security, whether in terms of terrorism, counter-intelligence, cybersecurity or others. This alert is very serious. On the other hand, you have indicated that there have been significant efforts on the part of the government in recent times. In fact, there is an increase in the budget. However, it should not be forgotten – and I stress this point – that these agencies, including the State Security Agency, have seen their staff and budgets reduced by your government at the beginning of the legislature. There is some catch-up, but you know that benchmarking shows that we should not increase our numbers by 10%, as is the case today, but that we should double them to have resources similar to countries of comparable size or neighbours, such as the Netherlands. This deserves special attention. I hope that we will finally lead to an internal organisation, a valorisation of the statutes and a coordination of these statutes with the other intelligence agencies, in order to have a fully effective intelligence service. I'm told there's a new generation of staff. These persons are indeed highly motivated when they enter the State Security Service. They should not be discouraged quickly and seek to leave because of a framework that does not allow them to deploy effectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1028x.u16	Joined Questions No 28439 by Mr Koenraad Degroote and No 28591 by Mrs Annick Lambrecht are postponed. The same applies to Question No 28513 by Mrs Annick Lambrecht and Point 28534 by Mr Philippe Pivin. Question No 28536 by Mr Koenraad Degroote is transformed into a written question. Question No 28555 by Mrs Len Dierick was withdrawn. Question No 28627 by Mr Philippe Pivin is postponed, as is Question No 28656 by Mr Olivier Maingain.
