ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we begin our work. Today we welcome Minister Maggie De Block and her collaborators. I note the presence of two collaborators from the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products (AFMPS) in case they should provide us with some clarifications. We will begin with the general introduction of the minister in return for the hearings we have already conducted. This introduction will be followed by an exchange of views with the Minister on the unavailability of drugs. All political groups will have the floor in the usual order. If further questions are asked, then I shall of course give the floor to Mrs De Block. Finally, we will continue with the rest of the oral questions that do not deal with the unavailability of drugs. If it suits you, ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor directly to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after three hearings, we are talking for the fourth time about the same serious issue, namely the unavailability of medicines. First of all, that is a long-standing concern for me, even before the subject was discussed in the Chamber. When a medicinal product is unavailable, it is a problem, not only for the patient but also for those who are further involved, such as the prescriber or the supplier, especially the pharmacist. Fortunately, the number of inabilitys that compromise the continuity of treatment is very low. However, every unavailability is one too many. It is certainly necessary to know the correct proportions of the problem which has existed for years. Firstly, the sharp increase in the registration of the inaccessibility is due to a better and stricter follow-up by the pharmaceutical agency, the Federal Agency for Medicinal Products and Health Products (FAGG). More notifications are not the same as more inaccessible in themselves. The system was refined and made faster to act proactively. We have the most detailed declaration of inaccessibility. If a carton of 60 tablets of medicine x is missing, but the boxes of 30 tablets are still in stock, it is still reported as an unavailability, although the medicine is still available. The number of critical inabilitys is therefore limited. You have heard Mr De Cuyper from the FAGG, he has made that clear at the hearings. A pharmaceutical company has the intention of taking her medicine to the patient, so... This is therefore also an undesirable situation for a firm. We must clearly define the problem. We can only talk about unavailability if the medicinal product should normally be on the market, but there is not because of circumstances. We distinguish, on the one hand, the real unavailability. This is a stock breach due to, among other things, a manufacturing problem, a quality problem or the unavailability of the active substance. In that case, the company can't deliver. On the other hand, there is a quota when the companies use quotas to deliver their stocks in order to prevent too many medicines for export from disappearing and the quotas they set for the Belgian market would not be sufficient. In the first place, together with the FAGG, I try to minimise the impact of the current unavailables, so that the patient is affected as little as possible. In addition, together with the Agency, I am looking for ways to eliminate the structural causes of the inaccessibility. There are many factors involved in a complex problem. There is no simple solution, but we have already taken steps on several fronts. Again, I've been worried about the problem longer than today. But even before I came to the department, the Working Group on Inaccessibility was set up at the FAGG in 2013. It is looking for solutions to current inaccessibility and is also working on preventive measures to prevent inaccessibility. As regards the preventive measures, the provision for wholesalers-distributors in the Law of 7 April 2019 that Belgian pharmacies and hospital pharmacists should be given priority in delivery, which meant that our Belgian patients were given priority over possible sales to other countries and quotas by companies would become superfluous, was finally destroyed yesterday by the Constitutional Court. We are now looking for alternatives. A royal decision is being prepared clarifying and better defining the wholesale distributor's obligation to supply, setting out the definition of unavailability and the obligation to supply the products on three working days and further anchoring the role of the federal agency on advice on alternatives. Finally, the existing possibility for imports for wholesalers/distributors is extended. The FAGG also participates in initiatives at European level. I will come back to that later. As far as monitoring existing unavailables is concerned, the FAGG has completely updated its database at the beginning of this year. The company's follow-up is now happening faster and more strictly. That is, moreover, the main reason for the sharp increase in availability in recent months. This is due to the improved screening and follow-up by the FAGG. The FAGG now also uses a decision tree to determine the critical nature of the unavailability. If no solution is found through the decision-making tree, it will be on the agenda of a task force with experts in this area. Work is under way to ensure that the additional costs, for example by importing an alternative therapy, are paid by the firms that cause the unavailability. Next month, the online platform Pharma Status will also be live. That platform provides real-time communication between the pharmacist, the wholesaler distributor and the manufacturer. The reason for their unavailability, critical nature and possible alternatives will be listed in real time. A link to the medicinal product database SAM 2.0 is also possible so that doctors can see at the time of prescribing whether or not a medicine is available. If it is not available, a doctor can also immediately see what the alternative is and prescribe it. Patients will also be able to consult this database. I am quite right to hear many questions from the members of the committee, but, as has been said, the problem has been under way for years. There is no miracle solution, there are many initiatives to be taken. These are, moreover, constantly new initiatives, as new problems are constantly emerging. I would like to mention the example of the dossier relating to the antibiotic Clamoxyl intravenously, which was the trigger for hearings. It is a perfect example of the complexity of the problem. I would remind you that the availability of intravenous Clamoxyl was compromised by a huge increase in demand, which in turn resulted from the disappearance of an antibiotic from another company whose medicine was used more frequently and for which Clamoxyl was actually used as a substitution. For Clamoxyl, there were production problems due to the active substance sodium amoxicillin at a certain time. So the problems follow one another: after another drug went missing first, Clamoxyl replaced it and the demand increased enormously, and then there were raw materials problems. Every time the company behind Clamoxyl informed us and solutions were sought. I hear all kinds of solutions here. By the way, I'm glad everyone's thinking about it. That's how I hear pleading for higher fines. But which firm should be fined when? Fines also do not provide a solution for the unavailability of a raw material. Moreover, companies may not report the unavailability of a raw material in order to avoid a fine and simply remove the product from the market or stop its delivery in Belgium. There is also a call for an export ban, whether or not a limited list of so-called essential medicines. A list of essential medicines is often mentioned, but so far no one has managed to draw up such a list. In some cases, reference is made to the RIZIV repayment category A. The drug Clamoxyl is not included intravenously. Moreover, European legislation allows very limited restrictions on the free movement of goods. For example, a ban must be necessary and proportionate and should apply only to medicinal products for which there is or is likely to be a shortage. It also calls for a full substitution right for pharmacists. I would like to remind you that, according to the law, substitution is already possible in two ways. Substitution is always possible if there is a prescription on dust name, the so-called VOC. They've been talking about this for years. We know that this is happening, but not often enough; not everyone is passionate about it. However, if there is a prescription on a substance name, a substitution is possible. Substitution is also possible after contact between the pharmacist and the doctor, who agrees. A full substitution right would also not be a solution in the case of Clamoxyl I.V., because there is no generic or alternative on the Belgian market. It calls for a simpler procedure for pharmacists or hospitals to import alternatives from another country. On the one hand, there is an official derogation. This means that the company imports its own medicine from another country. In that case, there is no problem with the patient's reimbursement. Then that medicine is covered by the usual reimbursement in our country. On the other hand, there is the possibility of an ad hoc importation of one or a few boxes by the hospital or pharmacist. However, remember that these medicines are not authorised in Belgium and therefore there is no refund. Moreover, such imports are also accompanied by higher prices or certain costs such as transport costs. So one must be aware of what one is doing. Everyone must accept their responsibility, both the doctor who prescribes the medicine and the pharmacist who delivers it. The patient should also be informed that the drug has a higher cost. It calls for the creation of larger stocks. Here, too, the question arises as to which essential medicines should be required to do so. How big should the stock be and by whom should the additional costs be borne? Hospital pharmacists are already building large stocks. They invest in this and take into account parties and weekends to make sure that there are enough medicines for their patients. The wholesalers/distributors decide how large their stock is. So they can stock more now and I don't know why we have to enforce it by law. However, if that can contribute to the solution, then we will have to do so. If a medicine, such as Clamoxyl I.V., cannot be produced for a long time, then of course every stock, no matter how large it is, will come to an end. With a large stock one wins a few weeks or months, but if that stock is not used up and the products expire, who will pay for the costs? Is that what we're gonna do? Those are questions that arise. It also calls for compulsory licences, more production at home and forms of public-private cooperation. However, for all these solutions, they do not always offer a solution. They would never even offer a solution if there were problems with raw materials, such as Clamoxyl I.V. In addition, if a company is granted the compulsory licence, that company must still be able to produce the medicine. This requires a great deal of expertise and the setting up of a production line. For example, setting up a production line for organic medicines could take years. So the question is whether or not this is a solution. You will also understand that these proposals are very far-reaching. In a small country like Belgium, they certainly have repercussions because we cannot always carry them out on our own within an international and globalised market. Some of the measures proposed may be part of the solution, but there is no such thing as a single miracle solution. Our small country is working very actively towards a harmonised global or at least European approach. Our federal agency is actively involved in the current European initiatives, because this is a problem that we face in every country. There are the task force of the European Medicines Agency EMA and the Heads of Medicines Agencies, for us that is Mr Xavier De Cuyper. This resulted, among other things, in directives for producers on the detection and reporting of inaccessibility and for national authorities on communication with the public. There is also a single point or contact indicated per national authority. There is also the OECD Health Committee, which is working on a fast track paper on unavailables. We're working on it. To sum up, it is indeed a problem, for several years, but in the meantime, both our medicines agency and all the services and experts involved have already improved a lot. However, the work is never finished. If one problem is solved, two or three new ones have been added. There is therefore a need to continue to work on further measures, including prevention measures, and on solutions in the event of unavailability.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Before giving the floor to the various political groups, I forgot to mention that we also received nine questions on the unavailability of medicines in general or of special cases (Camcolit, Clamoxyl and Femara). We will first have a feedback from each group on the Minister's general presentation. I shall then give the floor, in order, to the four members who have introduced these nine questions. To the extent that they have not yet received an answer to their specific question, I will ask them to rest this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u4	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Minister for her presentation. Madam Secretary, I am glad that you share our concern, but I would like to invite you to my pharmacy. In practice, the number of working hours per week at the pharmacist increases enormously as a result of the search for unavailable medicines. You said that the problem was aggravated by better reporting. You may be better informed, but one of my pharmacists recently told me that she is currently full-time problem manager. This means that she is looking for substitutes for non-available medicines for the other colleagues in the pharmacy. The impact on the work field is there and is great. The impact on patients is also large. Trust in the care provider is under discussion. The financial care for the patient is there, as is the care continuity for the patient. Moreover, as you mentioned, there is no legal framework for the pharmacist to do his job, the search for medication for the patient. My first question concerns the royal decree to which you referred. We're waiting for that. How can this be achieved quickly? Is a government in current affairs an obstacle? Can you go on with that or not? I'd like more explanation on that. As far as the software packages are concerned, it would indeed be a good thing for the prescribers, such as doctors and dentists, to be able to see when there is an unavailability through the incorporation of the SAM 2 into the software packages, but how will that happen with the pharmacists? The software packages of the pharmacists have no approval. It's gonna be a lot harder to enforce. I've come to the right of substitution. You mentioned the VOC medicines. For that, too, I invite you to check on me in the pharmacy. Since the electronic regulations, the number of drugs prescribed on dust names has been significantly reduced. This concern is shared by the pharmacists. In these software packages the brand names are very often placed at the top of the list. The doctor should then really start to prescribe pro-actively on a substance name. That's happening a lot less. You say that there is a possibility of substitution when the name of the substance is prescribed, or there is a second possibility after the doctor's agreement, but in the hearings we have heard very clearly from a number of professors that the training of pharmacists allows perfectly to give the pharmacist the power to substitute, especially in the context of inability. The example you gave of Clamoxyl was also not the best example. In the list of 500 CNKs that are missing, you will find other examples that are perfectly substitutable. With regard to the export ban that was annulled by the Constitutional Court, you spoke of a disproportionate measure. We naturally agree with that: the N-VA abstained in the vote on this bill. You say it has been discussed for a long time, but do you think it is impossible to list critical medicines? When I talk about critical medicines, I think it is not just about the A-line, the fully reimbursed medicines. There are quite a lot of medicines in B or C that are refunded, but they can also be critical. We are therefore convinced that such a list could be drawn up in consultation with the sector. There was also talk of fines. We have indeed included fines in our legislative proposal. In the course of the hearings, we have heard that there is restraint in the matter of monster fines. We share this concern: one cannot impose a monster fine on a very small firm, with the result that there is no longer any production of a particular medicine. What alternatives are there, however? You spoke of a fund, but how will it be established? Is it a sectoral fund or will it be financed by a company concerned? After all, our concerns in the context of our legislative proposal mainly concern patients: the patient cannot help the fact that there is an unavailability of a particular medicinal product, so he must be able to be compensated by the cause of that deficiency. I would have liked to have talked about the decision tree, too. You say it will be applied, but has it been implemented today?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u5	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u6	Here again, I do not see the right of substitution. Our group is very much in favour of this. Finally, should quotaed medicinal products also be reported?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u7	Mr President, I would like to say straight away that I am taking up my question, which was later on, directly in this debate, since you have already spoken about it, Madam Minister. So that question should not be addressed in the future. I have three additional questions. Firstly, a practical question. I hear next month the real-time software system could go online. Can the SAM 2 be connected to that immediately? If not, when is that link scheduled? My second question concerns the suspension of the law. I'm new here, so forgive me if it's a stupid question. Is there anything left of the law that we can continue to work with? What's the timing for the royal decision? I realize that it is all very fresh, but if we are going to discuss legislative proposals here soon, there will undoubtedly be another request for royal decisions. So if we can already know when they will be expected, then we should stop asking that question. Thirdly, I hear that the Royal Decree will take all actors into account. You said it is indeed a very complex problem. I appreciate all the efforts you have already made, but I wish the patients and the pharmacists could share your optimism, because from that angle every day I hear a lot of pessimism and a lot of complaints that it is not progressing. If you are going to look at all the actors, will you also consider whether or not possible speculation by the pharmaceutical industry plays a role in this? That is always mentioned, but in the hearings I hear very little of that coming back. Is that going to be looked at, too?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u8	Mr President, Madam Minister, we are pleased to be able to discuss with you, at last, this complex issue. It's not new either. For those who, like me, are new in this Parliament, I would like to point out that, during the previous parliamentary term, our colleagues have dealt extensively with the issue. However, it seems that the problem is only intensifying. Currently, about 500 drugs are unavailable. Admittedly, treatment alternatives sometimes exist, but this is not the case for all medicines, which is problematic for patients. As a member of the Health Committee, many of the testimonies we receive. According to the Belgian Pharmaceutical Association, there are more and more cases where there is no suitable solution. In doing so, you either have to stop therapy, or you have to opt for less optimal treatment, a second choice with sometimes extremely difficult side effects. You mentioned Clamoxyl for injection – amoxicillin – which is specifically used for endocarditis or septicaemia in babies under three months of age. This is a truly challenging example that puts doctors and pharmacists in the face of difficult choices, often misunderstood by patients, while the only person responsible is, of course, the pharmaceutical firm. Among other things, I have received testimony about Questran, a drug prescribed for serious intestinal problems. According to some reports in the press, since this medicine is unavailable from us, it must be imported. However, an imported drug costs seven times more than a drug available to us. There is no refundable alternative to these drugs and, above all, the additional cost remains with the patient. I will return to that point. Beyond the problems of shortages, one can also mention the significant increase in the price of medicines. Both debates have been split, but you must know that we wanted to address both aspects at the same time. However, the President promised us that hearings on the issue of drug prices would be held in the wake of our work on shortages. I would like to give you the example of Camcolit, which is an unreimbursed medicine that has had to compensate for the unavailability of repayable treatment for bipolar disorders. We have heard testimony from experts in this area. The company that manufactures the Camcolit has tripled its price. Consequences for patients: A medicine box costs 27 euros instead of just over 9 euros. Minister, the issue of access to drugs is not new. She always comes back to the news. For my group, it is high time to put an end to the unbalanced benefits of the pharmaceutical industry by introducing a genuine drug policy that allows every patient to obtain accessible and, above all, guaranteed treatments in the long term. Medicines are not products like any other. Our health and sometimes our lives depend on their accessibility. Minister, what specific actions have you taken and what solutions have you found to address these drug shortages? You have already told us some of the answers, but what do you intend to do to know the real causes of these shortages? You told us that there would be a platform and that there would be reasons and causes. Do we have the certainty that we will be able to control the causes of these shortages? Has the pharmaceutical industry made every effort to find solutions for our patients? What concrete measures do you envisage to allow for greater transparency in the setting of costs and hence the prices of medicines? I would also like to address the case of Femara. If, like me, you have some knowledge in this situation, it is likely that some patients do not find the medicine essential for the treatment of their breast cancer in a pharmacy. However, every time I consulted the database, Femara did not appear in the database of unavailable drug packs. The notification shall be made only on the basis of an unavailability of 14 days. I can certify that the period was much longer than that. So, what about it? The pharmaceutical firm Novartis then confirmed to the press that it was facing a short-term stock shortage of Femara in packs of 100 tablets. She is also committed to making every effort to provide patients with access to their treatment. She said she was working actively to resolve the situation as quickly as possible with regard to the packaging of 100 tablets and to respond to pharmacists' requests within 24 hours. Novartis also confirmed the availability of the medicine in packs of 30 tablets, which apparently was not the case everywhere. In some pharmacies, it was not available in 100 or 30 tablets. For its part, the Federal Agency advised to substitute Femara with its generic, Létrozole, a medicine that was precisely notified at that time as not available on the Agency's website. This is therefore a completely inextricable situation, when patients have an urgent and essential, even vital, need for this medication. Minister, the weeks have passed since we became aware of this situation. Femara, like its generic Letrozole, is still not mentioned in the list of unavailability. However, information taken from several pharmacies since last month, this medication was still not available, regardless of the packaging. The availability of the generic, if any, was relatively limited. How do you explain that this medicine is still not on the list of unavailability? What are the specific reasons for this unavailability? Are you able to tell us if his export is at issue? Is the Federal Agency still in contact with Novartis on this issue? Have any solutions been found? Can clear answers be given to patients waiting for this medication? This allows me to turn to the third part of my inquiry, namely the question of the export of medicines. Since the introduction of my first question on the law of 18 May 2019 to restrict the export of medicines, the situation has obviously changed. The Constitutional Court suspended an important provision in its decree of 18 July following the introduction of various actions for annulment by some wholesalers and wholesalers-partitioners. As a reminder, this law obliges wholesalers-partitioners to supply only Belgian markets in order to prevent medicines from being found abroad, in order to avoid certain shortages. The Constitutional Court held that this provision had serious consequences for the economic activity of wholesalers, and that the evidence at its disposal does not establish that the activities of wholesalers had an impact on the unavailability of certain medicinal products in Belgium. The Constitutional Court has also found that wholesalers have produced numerous statements attesting that the holders of marketing authorisations for medicinal products do not wish to deliver them directly, which may have a considerable negative impact on their gross margins – and I quote the Court – "on the employment and even on the survival of the companies concerned". Minister, your office has stated that the Agency is examining the reasons for the suspension and possible options. What are the results of their analyses now, with hindsight? What do you intend to do if the arrangement is finally cancelled? Because it is currently suspended. And as I mentioned in the first question I had tabled, it would be essential to have precise figures on the volume of exports, and hence their precise responsibility in the context of shortages. I hear it's canceled. Would a system of notification by wholesalers and wholesalers/partitioners to the Agency regarding exports be possible? I therefore conclude with a proposal for such a notification system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u9	Mr President, Madam Minister, if you are yet another in line, a lot of questions have already been asked. I will not repeat them, but a few questions have not yet been addressed. There is something we have heard in the hearings with the pharmacists, Madam Secretary. You say that the medicines that are taken abroad are usually not approved or registered here with us. The pharmacists testified that it was about drugs that were missing here, but those people are just to use. I am convinced that a medicine used by a patient on a regular basis is also registered and recognised here. So I have some doubts about your statement just now. The hearings also addressed the question of a guarantee fund. I'd like to know what you're up against. This could possibly reduce the additional costs for the patient. I understand that most of the partners in the sector are not reluctant to do so. One of the causes of the shortages is the shortage of raw materials. At one of the hearings, I already asked whether it is not possible not only to extract raw materials from faraway China or India, but to try to find them closer to home by stimulating measures? Belgium is the appropriate place for this, but I see it wider, at European level. I hear you say a lot, but you offer few solutions. I have the impression that you are somewhat defeatist, in the sense that we will do nothing about it, because whatever we do, we always run into something. But perhaps one should not always want to invent the hot water. Have you ever considered what our neighbouring countries are doing in the event of a drug shortage? Perhaps you could look a little further than your nose is long and see how that happens in Europe? There's something else I've already mentioned. Would it not be useful to use, in Bulgarian format, an IT system which is the same for doctors, pharmacists and hospital pharmacists?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u10	Minister, allow me to put to you the question I had planned to ask you in July 2019. I will also speak more broadly on the subject of the unavailability of medicinal products, since a substantial work has been carried out in this committee, a work which was constructive - I thank all colleagues who are still present today. I was able to raise this issue last July when we asked to hear from the head of the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products (FCHI). In fact, the Agency had just issued a recommendation that our hospitals' health services manage the stocks of Clamoxyl intravenously in the most appropriate manner possible. Specifically, the AFMPS required physicians and hospital pharmacists to administer only Clamoxyl I.V. "if there is no suitable alternative", following the shortage of the medicine Clamoxyl I.V. which has been raging for several months in our country. This shortage would be due to difficulties in the supply of raw materials. On the other hand, the company that produces the alternative drug, penicillin G, is not able to provide the necessary amount due to the lack of Clamoxyl. This is in the broader context of the unavailability of medicines in our country. We have been able to carry out several hearings on this subject. Our position is that measures must be taken, especially since the Constitutional Court annulled last May's law aimed at limiting the export of medicines destined for our country abroad. Let me ask you the questions scheduled for July, which may very well concern other medicines. How to understand the AFMPS recommendation not to administer Clamoxyl I.V. If there's no alternative? Isn't it always the case with a drug? [[How do you decide whether or not to administer this antibiotic in normal time and since this recommendation?]] Since that time, are patients being forced to pay more for their care in the hospital because of the alternative given? How many doses of these drugs (Clamoxyl I.V. and penicillin G) are administered in our hospitals on average per year? Has the AFMPS, which was to decide whether or not to import parenteral amoxicillin, made a decision to that effect? What is the responsibility of the firm that owns Clamoxyl I.V. in this situation? What are the medical and financial impacts? Do you confirm, at the end of October, that the restriction can be lifted in December? Minister, more broadly about the unavailability of drugs, if there are about 500 drugs presented as unavailable out of 10,000, it does represent only 5% of the opportunities for patients. But, for a patient who does not have his or her medication, this represents 100% of his or her treatment and therefore, as much anxiety and hassle in the therapeutic alternative or dosage. During the hearings organised by our committee on these unavailabilitys, the MR group has three things to say. The first is that almost everyone has said that there has been a problem in this area, i.e. for ten years an increase in unavailability - pharmaceutical companies are less clear than others. At this level, we were also able to hear dispatchers say that the export of drugs is not the cause of unavailability. These are the lessons learned at the end of these discussions. The second thing is that there are avenues to address unavailability. We were able to receive answers to our questions and professional auditioners also made proposals, which I will quote: - the obligation for firms to notify unavailability from three days of inaccessibility instead of fourteen. Because three days off can be complicated for some chronic treatments, professionals have confirmed this; - strengthening the capacity of the AFMPS and the information it must provide on unavailability; - a two-track approach with regard to the reimbursement of alternatives which are not always reimbursed by INAMI, allowing reimbursement of imported specialities in the event of unavailability and of raw materials for master preparations; - the use of computer software in medical offices and clinics - the PharmaStatus and the centralizing tool, the 5V2. It's not annoyance. When the physician prescribes the medication to the patient, this will provide the physician with on-line information on unavailability and alternative recommendations. In this way, the patient will not find himself in front of his pharmacist, with a prescription for a medicine that cannot be found. This is all the more important as we move on to electronic prescribing next January. We're talking about implementation in 2020. Therefore, Madam Minister, I would like to know the exact deadline. The third thing is that we must certainly favour the European level with regard to the management of stocks and also - this will be discussed in the second part of our work - with regard to the accessibility of medicinal products. As you know, since you have formed the grouping of the negotiating countries (BeNeLuxA), the European directive on combating the falsification of medicinal products, which has now entered into force, provides a basis for establishing traceability, first of all, of the manufacture of medicinal products and delivery in Belgium, and then of each issue of medicinal products. In your opinion, is this a solution among others to respond to certain unavailability? There is also the question of quotas by firm and country. Another more general aspect should be considered, in this case the places where the raw materials of medicinal products are manufactured. Currently, 80% of production is carried out outside European borders, mainly in India and China. This is a challenge not only for firms, but also for our states. We must therefore take steps at European level to bring this production back to our home. Have you, together with your European counterparts, explored any avenues in this regard? Finally, with regard to the text annulled by the Constitutional Court, the May Act addressed part of the problem through possible excess exports of medicines. It also reinforced the obligation of firms to deliver wholesalers-partitioners. In the event of an annulment of the law, there are several avenues. You have thus announced a draft royal decree. Could you please tell us what progress it has been made?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u11	Madam Secretary, your analysis shockes me. On 15 July an opinion piece was published in Le Soir by professionals in the sector. They write the following. "In recent years, there has been a worrying increase in the number of drugs in partial or total shortage." They say it can't be kept anymore. The problem is increasing. This was confirmed in the hearings by both the patient organisations and the academics and pharmacists, who have also testified extensively. You are now saying that the inaccessibility is simply being better registered. If you look at it that way, you won't find a solution. Are you also saying that what the pharmacists, the professionals, the academics testify, isn't true?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u12	I will repeat what I said, because you are again giving a free interpretation of what I said. That'll be because you're shocked.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u13	You said there was a stricter and better follow-up. On 18 July, during Mr De Loof's testimony, it became clear that there is a real public health problem, even though you claimed that public health was not compromised. We saw graphs showing the impact of stock breaches on mortality. Moreover, we are not the only country facing the problem; it is a European phenomenon. Madam Secretary, are you still convinced that public health is not in danger? You write that only four drugs are really unavailable. The testimonies also showed that there are many more critical medications unavailable. I give a recent example of what I myself was confronted with as a general practitioner. Hygroton is the first choice for treating blood pressure problems. That's unavailable. That's honorful old medicine. That has an impact on our public health. If we cannot prescribe this, we must switch to more expensive or less good products. Then we must move not to first choice but to second choice medicine. Then it seems to me that there is a problem for public health. If you keep thinking that's not true, you can explain that again. What has emerged in the past few months is that stocks are being used and sometimes manipulated to make more profit. That is a problem of our capitalist society, which we must bear in mind. For export, for example, companies effectively apply quotas. For example, a box of 30 tablets costs €111 in the Netherlands and €72 in Belgium. That saves almost 40 euros. Perhaps that could explain why Femara in Belgium is harder available than in the Netherlands. As long as we don't face these mechanisms, we can't come up with solutions. For us, pistes should be considered where medicines are actually seen as a public good. That was also Professor De Loof's opinion at the hearing. That is, of course, a long-term vision. I would also like to make a specific point about sanctions policy. We are constantly talking about monster fines here. The PVDA effectively asked for fines, but we didn't ask for monster fines at all, we were just talking about fines. We also did not ask for fines for each case, but we did when the reason for the stock breach is not clear or if the firm cannot provide a sound solution within a reasonable period of time. I'll go back to Clamoxyl's example. There has been an effective increase in demand and GSK works in capitalist society, on the free market. If there's an increased demand, shouldn't the company be able to adjust its production? Why can't a multinational with a business figure of 23 billion dollars, which is in the top ten of the most profitable companies, adjust its production to make Clamoxyl, a medicine that has existed since 1972? The victim at that time is the patient who will incur additional costs. Besides, hospitals are getting in trouble. Can we not ask such a big player to make more effort to better match production to the needs here in our country? My question is therefore very specific as to whether fines are actually being imposed. There is, after all, a lack of clarity about this. In the hearing this was vaguely discussed, but it was not at all clear whether effective fines would be issued if a medicine remained unavailable. Secondly, you say that fines are inefficient. I find that odd. If I drive too fast on the highway, I get a fine. I think this fine will affect how fast I will drive in the future on the motorway or elsewhere. So I find this statement strange.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u14	According to you, I would have said that fines are inefficient. I didn't say that. You must not put words in my mouth that I have not spoken. I know you're happy to do that. I have said that we must think when we impose high fines when the firm cannot do anything about it. If the company sees that there will be an unavailability, would it not be better to let it know that it will take the product out of the market, instead of saying that there is an unavailability? That's what I said. I didn't say fines would be inefficient.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u15	I would simply ask you, Mrs De Block, whether fines are being imposed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u16	There I will...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u17	Okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u18	A lot of questions have been asked. There's a business that concerns me anyway. Mrs Merckx just quoted the example of Femara. This product is more expensive in the Netherlands. I have heard a number of times that the Netherlands is being taken as an example, but it seems that for some products we are cheaper and therefore an export is being made. My question is not specifically about Femara, but more generally, do you have a view of that export market and what that represents? As far as fines are concerned, I have another thought to which the Minister may not be able to answer. I have heard that in the generic medicinal products market, for example, 80% of the products have a turnover of less than EUR 100,000. When we talk about fines, I think we should take that into account. This is to avoid massive withdrawal of products. That's an important fact. I do not know if this information is correct, but we can certainly ask for it. Otherwise, I don't have any questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u19	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the introduction. I have a few questions. Following the law destroyed by the Constitutional Court, you are talking about a new KB. Where do you stand with that? What's the timeline for that? What proposals from the destroyed law are taken on board in that KB? You also mentioned the website in real time, i.e. the collaboration between pharmacists, wholesalers, distributors and manufacturers. At the hearing we heard that this was something before December at the earliest. You were talking about next month. Can we get a proper time mark on that? You also mentioned the list of really necessary medicines. Am I to understand that you advise against drawing up that list? Are you not in favour of such a system with a list? Aren't you planning on doing that? Please give me a clear answer. I would like to talk about what the patients' associations and Test Purchase told during the hearings. That is what we must listen to first and foremost. The Patients Platform emphasised that the unavailability of medicinal products has a huge impact on compliance and thus on public health. They see that as one of the big problems. How do you feel, being a doctor yourself? Are you aware of that? Do you have the same ideas about that? It was also argued that patients should be involved in the FAGG working group through the patient associations. How do you feel about that? Would you say that's a good thing or not? What I heard very well in the presentation of Test Purchase, is that several older, cheap but really important first-choice products are just very sensitive to availability problems. Hence the plea for a list of vulnerable medicines. Test Purchase strongly insisted on this, but if I understood you correctly, you are not in a position to draw up such a list.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u20	If there is one point on which I agree with you, as I said in tempore non suspecto, it is the fact that there is no unique magic solution. I had, in fact, placed a great deal of pressure on you and the colleagues of the parties who voted on this bill in March 2019, which was originally a bill, and which I had not voted for. At the time of consideration of your proposal, I had expressed to you my concern that "the proposed arrangement does not resolve the problem of unavailability", and I had given you an appointment six months later to verify it. I also pointed out to you that "working groups have made several ambitious proposals" that you have not followed, since you have focused on this aspect. "This text," I said, "passes the essentials and risks being legally fragile and ineffective on the ground." I would like to recall this because, at that time, we would have had the opportunity to move on to this issue in a completely different way. Today, I am not saying that the agency is doing nothing, because I think it is investing a lot, but I regret that you have made the choice (as well as all those who voted for the proposal at the time) to deal with things in a totally ineffective way at that time and legally inconclusive. In fact, the Constitutional Court has validated the proposed law, and I had stressed at the time the existence of the European treaties in this field. You say, Madam Minister, that today there is a better follow-up, a better screening, thanks to which an increased number of unavailabilitys have been identified. I do believe that screening is more effective today, but where I am no longer with you, it is when you say that only a few medicines are involved. Of course, among the 500 medicinal products concerned, some of these medicinal products actually exist in packs with a different number of tablets, in another form or from another firm. At the same time, it's not just a few medications, because the reality of pharmacists and patients' daily lives is not simple. What concerns me even more is that this is indeed a public health issue and issue, because behind this issue is primarily the patient's compliance with treatment. When pharmacists struggle and lose valuable time trying to find solutions with their suppliers, with colleagues from other clinics, in the hospital sector, through the stocks of hospital clinics, they are happy to see the patient come back and find an alternative, but they are much less so if the patient does not come back and if they do not find an alternative, because it is then the patient's compliance that is undermined and, therefore, his health and the effectiveness of his treatment. I am one of those who think that it is a bundle of measurements across the entire drug circuit that would allow us to make positive progress. I think it's a problem when we analyze this file through one or the other example. Examples can all be taken, but that covers sometimes very different realities. Minister, what I expected of you today is a slightly more detailed analysis of the large types of drugs that are in short supply. I hope you have such an analysis. I have taken a series of information, on the basis of which one can establish a form of photo, at some point, of these medicines in need. I take the example of a photo taken at a time x when 420 medicines were missing. Of these 420 medicines, 190, or almost 50%, were generics that are almost never exported, since they are available at much lower prices than in many other European countries. We remember that working only with export, it already makes us miss out on that 50%. Of the 420 missing drugs, 72 were hospital products exclusively available in hospitals. Hospitals obviously keep their products and do not export them. So we are again in a reality that does not concern exports. Finally, 88 of these drugs were very rarely prescribed, with limited production. Minister, in relation to this photo, I imagine that this much more sophisticated analysis is much more interesting than an analysis that would be done by small examples to the right and left depending on what is happening. I imagine, Madam Minister, that you have such analyses. Beyond this photo taken at a time x that I just put forward, what is the reality in relation to these large types of drug categories in need? How many of these drugs, on average, are generic drugs? How many, on a percentage basis and on average, are the products concerned by exportation? How many, on average, are rare drugs? Perhaps one or the other category can be highlighted? I repeat: I do an analysis over a given period of time. I think we need this analysis to know what measures we can take at the political level, either legislative or operational, to have a comprehensive response, for any circuit and for all types of medicines concerned, measures that are effective for the patient. I would like us to put solutions on the table. You gave your opinion on different tracks, with a lot of questions. In relation to each other's positions, whether they come from the sectors concerned or whether they are more political, you have focused on the questions raised. We haven't heard much from you about the fact that we could handle one or the other. What interests me is that we can try to find solutions together and effective solutions. I think we can work on three levels, provided we have a little more clarity and a more focused analysis of the broad categories, as I have just explained. The first major level is transparency and availability information. Is this information sufficient? Are they sufficiently early? I think we have to answer no to these two questions. Regarding precocity, various partners in the sector say that we need to anticipate and be able to provide information earlier. Is transparency sufficient? I am talking about all the actors, from the pharmaceutical company, through distributors and suppliers, to pharmacists. Other countries in the European Union are far more forward-thinking than we are, with obligations of full transparency, including on the production side. Industries must be able to provide information on their production and the quantities placed on the market on a permanent basis. Wholesalers have to report their exports, as well as imports – as this necessarily goes in both directions. Algorithm tools exist to determine whether, for each major category of drugs, at least those that are regularly in short supply, there is a form of security stock, and to take export action, if this security stock is no longer sufficient. This helps to target problems and avoid taking action such as the one you took last March, which was broken by the Constitutional Court. A tool in terms of availability has been put in place. I have the impression that he is insufficiently known, Madam Minister. Pharmacists know him well, if not very well. The general public does not know him or does not know him at all. Caregivers other than pharmacists do not know him very much. I therefore believe that communication work should be done in this area to try to avoid the prescriptions of medicines not available and that pharmacists are not obliged to contact the prescribing doctor or to find a plan B. The second major aspect relates to the current prevention and management measures that I believe are insufficient. You say that it is difficult to make stocks, that no one makes a list, etc. It is obvious that not all medicines should be included in this list of medicines to be stored. I have just referred to the security stocks that exist in other countries. These could be national stocks for certain types of medicines. The list cannot, of course, be drawn up at first sight. Nor can it be immediately perfect. It must be possible to review it regularly and be established on the basis of what we already know, since we know that medicines have been unavailable for many months, which belong to very different categories and for which the situations are just as different. The issue of hospital stocks, in particular the possibility of working between hospital clinics with stocks, is not the main issue today. But this is still a measure that could be put in place and that would help to improve the situation. Finally, with regard to companies where drug ruptures have already been identified, we now have a decline of several years. You have refused sanctions, but I think the question is two-tiered. Firstly, in Belgium, are there pharmaceutical industries which determine quotas and therefore voluntary limitations divided by country according to prices and profits? If this is the case, this is not acceptable, in any case for drugs for which there are unavailabilitys. That part, I can't answer. Is it true or not? Are inspections carried out at times? If so, I think the bull should be taken by the horns. We cannot harm our patients and public health simply to favour other countries where the price is higher and therefore, ultimately, to favour the benefit of the pharmaceutical industry. It's a real problem. The second level I see concerns firms that have experienced drug ruptures. I think that the public authority, you in this case, could discuss with these firms in order to achieve, on the basis of the unavailability found, a form of agreement or contract, in any case of discussion as to the responsibility of the firm in these unavailabilitys. You gave an example of a problem of suppression of another medicine with the same pharmacological molecule, and moreover, a problem of raw materials. I agree. On the other hand, I return to my example of the distribution in other countries where profits are greater. If that is the case, it is obviously shocking. It seems to me that there is a problem with marketing authorisation in Belgium. I believe that there is then a need for an inspection or even a discussion to consider a solution and that if it is not, it will be a matter of legislating. The last aspect which seems to me to be part of the package of measures on the drug circuit, of course, it is European coordination which needs to be further strengthened. I didn't hear you about that. I know that several agencies in the Member States are working together at European level. On the other hand, do we have sufficient exchange of information on the unavailability of medicines in other countries? In this way, we could anticipate them and alert the other Member States. A solution will of course not be provided by this Parliament alone, especially since Belgium is a small market. This is why work on a European scale remains crucial. Mr President, I hope that we can move forward intelligently, instead of telling us that all these measures are useless or cause too many questions. An isolated provision will not be effective – I agree – but rather a bundle of initiatives. To do this, we must systematically weigh the pros and cons and appreciate the modalities for the benefit of patients, as well as for public health and all providers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u21	Mrs. De Block, there's been a whole series of questions. I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u22	Thank you for the questions. Mrs Depoorter, you say that the number of working hours is increasing. That is right and it is also annoying work because it creates some frustration. Therefore, the SAM 2 system will be developed so that the pharmacist can see either a green or a red card at the time he or she taps the medicine. A red card means that an alternative must be given. That alternative will be available and will be indicated. It will also appear with the prescriber or doctor at the time it is prescribed. As a result, fewer red card medicines will end up in the pharmacist's office. So there will already be a filter with the prescriber. You mentioned a pharmacist you know. I assume when it's a problem manager, it's about a woman.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u23	It's obviously a woman.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u24	I knew it. The new platform is coming up. We need a royal decision. The question was whether it could be taken into account in current cases. We will argue that it is urgent and necessary for the patient and on the ground. Its inclusion in the software will be mandatory for doctors to be included in the electronic prescription. It must be implemented and will be mandatory from June 2020. The software providers will experience some pressure because the inclusion in the software is an additional service. I assume that this will also be the case with pharmacists. Of course, you can also make the link yourself, but that is more difficult. It's better that it's included in the software. I fully agree with that. You should note that the rules on the name of dust fall under the electronic regulations. That is regrettable for the VOC regulations, but it is also good news. There was a great deal to be done about electronic regulations during the months before the elections. It was about how difficult things were for older doctors and doctors who didn't work with a computer. Imagine that. In this respect, on the one hand, I am pleased that there are so many electronic regulations. On the other hand, this should not prevent a doctor from making a prescription on a dust name. I come to the list of essential or critical medicines. Mrs Depoorter, you were the first to ask that question, so I will answer you. It is not for me to say what should be on it. Several attempts have already been made. You say that the knowledge of this is present in the sector. I therefore invite the sector to make an attempt to draw up the list. Maybe this could help solve some cases. On the monster fines, two things are essential to me. First of all, the patient must not bear the cost of this. You agree, because it is also in your proposal. Health insurance must not bear the cost of this either, because it has not contributed to it. The sector is proposing a fund, and I leave it to him to do so. The question is how this fund will be fed. There was a packing charge going to the RIZIV. We have checked this and apparently the proceeds of that tax already finance other RIZIV items. This presents us with the problem that the RIZIV can only spend EUR 1 once. A different foundation will therefore have to be found for the fund. Nothing is impossible except to spend 1 euro twice. I'm getting to the decision tree. It's already being handled. Take Mrs Merckx's example on Hygroton. According to the decision tree, Hygroton is a medicine that is currently unavailable due to a packaging problem, but for which valid alternatives are available. So the packaging problem is solved. There is therefore temporary unavailability, but alternatives can be used. The problem with quotas is that this is not in the figures. Quotas are not currently unavailable and are not recognised. The quota system is a warning and a provisional measure, but is not included in the unavailability. So this is not included. Mrs Creemers also asked about the platform. That will be the middle of November, for the firms, and a few weeks later also for the pharmacists, because there was also one case that had to be dealt with for the pharmacists. That will be much better anyway and also play on the ball much shorter. As mentioned above, the use of SAM 2 is also actually required by the electronic regulation that the SAM 2 will be in as of next year. As far as the quota law is concerned, one part of an article has been suspended. The rest of that law stands. We'll try to fix that. Mrs Creemers and others have already asked for this. We're not taking over from that one provision that was destroyed. We strengthen the obligation to supply and also provide even more transparency in the notifications and thus also in the notification of the occurrence of a deficit. We will, of course, have to motivate that. Mrs Tillieux, concerning intravenous amoxicillin, this is a major problem in pharmacists, but especially in hospitals. We have achieved a quota of 40 per cent in the country. This is a cascade problem because, as you know, the Pentrexyl was no longer available and everyone fell back to the intravenous Clamoxyl, which led to an increase in demand. Then, there was a problem with one of the basic components of intravenous Clamoxyl, which resulted in a stoppage of production. This is a serious problem and as soon as the firm found out, it started a dialogue with the AFMPS to find alternatives. A list of indications for which alternatives to intravenous amoxicillin may be used has been drawn up. The firm is doing everything it can to guarantee production. For the Questran, this is an import-related unavailability. A system of compensation for the price is envisaged. For Camcolit, the price was multiplied by three. We have asked the Commission for the reimbursement of medicines to consider the reimbursement for the patient with a moderator ticket. I'm coming to Femara. When Femara production was stopped, there were six generic options, then four. Indeed, two generics experienced a stock shortage, caused by higher demand. Of course, the demand for Femara has increased. There was a cascade effect, like for intravenous Clamoxyl. There was also a problem of Femara production, causing a lot of problems on the ground. It is now available but quotaed for a balanced distribution. This means that pharmacies must come into direct contact with firms without going through distributors. This is why Femara is no longer on the AFMPS lists. With respect to the Quotating Act, this is a provision in an article that has been annulled. Mrs Sneppe, you are asking for a guarantee fund and you say that the sector is asking for it. That is good, but we want to finance it with funds that are already being spent on other matters. A solution will therefore have to be found, preferably with the help of the sector. You're referring to the Bulgarian system. I had to ask, because when I go to meetings, the Eastern European countries always ask me what we are making a problem of, and they say they have much bigger problems. You say the Bulgarian system is so much better. There is no constant stock overview and no automatic export ban. This is not easy to implement, because then one has to have a continuous overview of all stocks and movements. With the Falsified Medicines Directive, where we can track every package of a medicine, we already have a lot of information, but even with that we do not see all movements in real time and therefore do not yet have all the ways to track. We checked with the FAGG to see if the available data from the Falsified Medicines Directive will help them. They do indeed have a view on this, but those data are not suitable for monitoring the availability. They are incomplete, but I will ask again what can be done with them. Mrs Taquin, I have already answered the other questions related to Clamoxyl I.V. As I said, we will have a list of alternatives. To this end, a protocol has been established with the AFMPS. As far as the list of alternatives is concerned, this will be done according to the indications of use. GSK is working with AFMPS to ensure a sufficient stock of available medicines for the coming months for all countries, not just Belgium. As far as proposals are concerned, the three-day deadline is mentioned in the royal decree that we want to take. The platform will be operational in less than a month, initially for firms, and then for pharmacists. As regards the reimbursement of raw materials, they shall be reimbursed where available. It should be noted, however, that the preparation of medicinal products with raw materials is not always simple. There are legal processes to consider, and it is not always easy to have sufficient experience and opportunities. You're talking about Benelux, but it's actually our country, I'm the one who took this initiative. Before that, I have always argued for a European solution in the case of orphan medicinal products. This was not a solution. In the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Austria and Ireland we have started to establish a common system of screening or health technology assessment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u25	Only the fixing of the price falls within the competence of the Member State. In some cases, however, as in the case of Spinraza, we have cooperated in negotiations with the Netherlands to determine the price and conditions for the reimbursement of the medicine. We had already done so before, but the negotiations had led to a negative opinion from our two countries. I am convinced that this type of communication can be expanded. All available information was provided to all interested countries - mainly the Nordic countries. They are doing the same thing and are developing cooperation (Nordic Alliance). It may be interesting to cooperate, one day, but they are still at an early stage. Other countries are interested but do not always have the opportunity to release enough aid within their administrations, which are also affected by this type of cooperation. International cooperation is obviously important. This is why the BeNeLuxA was created in 2015. On several occasions, I have put this on the agenda of the European Commission (Public Health), the OECD and the World Health Organisation where we have really pulled the alarm bell. The other countries said they were facing the same problem. The United Kingdom has shown interest in cooperation with Belgium, but the Brexit perspective has given them many other concerns about the availability of medicines. The discussions have been frozen. Mrs Merckx, the problem has existed for many years and in all countries. It has not become easier because raw materials are increasingly monopolized in distant countries in other continents. We have worked towards better and faster registration, because then there can be more prevention and we can take proactive measures. You're talking about statistics and stock breaches. I don't know where you're getting it, but certainly not from our agency. I haven't seen those statistics yet. You say the stock fractures lead to death. Are those statistics coming from the distributors?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u26	Professor De Loof has shown graphs in his testimony that showed that the problem was there and that this also had consequences on mortality. You can find that on the slides.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u27	We will certainly pay due attention to this. For four medicines there were serious problems. There has already been talk of Maniprox. There are also biological medicines, particularly immunological medicines, with which there is indeed a problem. This cannot be developed in an alternative way. It'll take years. I've already set the example of Hygroton. At Hygroton it was about a packaging problem. At Maniprox, the problem was that the company did not consider production to be cost-effective anymore. It's an old cure. You know that there are many mechanisms to lower the price of older medicines. If the price gets too low, some firms decide to stop production. In the case of Maniprox, an agreement could be reached with the RIZIV. In other cases, this is done without notice and rather abruptly. You made a somewhat political argument. I have nothing against that, let me be clear. We are all here because of this and for the sake of politics. You said it was the capitalist society in which mechanisms of quotaing can develop. Well, the law adopted here was precisely intended to limit the mechanisms of quotaing. So not to ban exports but to ensure that exports can only happen when there is enough supply for our patients. That was the plan. You will then say that the solution is that medicines are actually a public good. Of course, I'm not surprised to hear that from you. You can do an interesting study on this. In communist countries, that's good for the public. But the question is how does the patient have access to medicines that we take for granted here? If I have more time, I'd like to look at it with you, but if you can get it done, I'd be curious. I think a capitalist system can develop fewer mechanisms. At the same time, I do not think that the solution is to opt for a communist system, and in that context I am immediately thinking of the problems of patient availability, quality and choice between medicines. As far as Clamoxyl is concerned, there was certainly no reluctance in the production, quite the contrary. It was a problem of instability of the raw material, so it was not safe enough to continue production. That problem appeared at some point and was not so easy to solve. As regards fines, I replied immediately. No fines have been collected yet. If the company can prove that this is a case of force majeure, for example when a raw material is not available or a production line is not ready to continue, then it is indeed force majeure. There will be no penalty. Mr de Caluwe, I have to tell you that we do not have a view on the export market at the moment. We do indeed need more transparency on these export channels. It must be clear which products are exported and whether this affects stocks here in Belgium. There will need to be a new KB to impose this obligation. As you know, partial exports are not always the cause of the unavailability, but they are sometimes the catalysing factor. We wanted to remedy that. Mrs Jiroflée, I have already given you an answer on the KB implementing the piece of the law that has been destroyed. I have already replied to you on the platform. Next month, around November 18th, the public release would happen. At the beginning of December, this would happen for pharmacists. The presence of patient associations has been met. By the way, I brought the patients' associations into the FAGG myself. At my arrival I put LUSS and the Flemish Patient Platform in touch with the FAGG to play a useful role there. They were invited to the last task force and some before. I think they can be of less use at technical meetings because that's more of a nerd thing. I think that as a patient association one is not an expert in production processes or in the difference in molecules between one product or another. I don't think they can make themselves useful there. But for communication, how patients can deal with it and be warned, they do indeed have a useful function. This is also why we brought them in. Mrs Fonck, a provision of the quota law has been withdrawn. At the time, you made a lot more comments on this. You said you took a picture at some point and asked me for an account of these unavailabilitys. To determine whether changes have occurred since the photograph was taken, it is necessary to know whether it is a photo taken at twenty, thirty, forty or fifty years old. So I can't answer you. All I can say is that an adaptation of the AFMPS information is made daily. With the new platform, these changes will take place several times a day.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u28	Minister, in just a few months, large categories of drugs are unavailable for a wide variety of reasons, which it is important to know. In this way, the analysis of the problem will be much finer. In addition, we will be able to take effective measures to respond to the most frequent situations. That's just what I'm talking about. By consulting the list drawn up by the AFMPS, we cannot guess what is the reason for the unavailability of this medication. On the other hand, you may know, since the Agency is aware of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u29	Yes, the Agency has a system in place to select the cause of each unavailability. The most common is a production problem. I can send the list to the committee even if I do not think it is precise enough. In the future, this list will be expanded and clarifications will be provided, which will allow for better control. I have in my possession the figures for the period from January 1 to September 13, 2019. There are a number of problems, such as the falsified medicinal products directive, logistics, packaging and production. Other reasons are given such as "new badge not yet available", "patent protection", etc. There is also a lack of detail. As I have just said, in order to have more information, the list needs to be expanded and clarifications made. We must also regret the lack of quotas. The list of causes of unavailability was discussed and discussed in the working group. The new list of these causes will be incorporated into the new Pharma Status platform to complement information on criticality, recommendations and alternative solutions. In this way, the transparency that you demand can be significantly improved. You're saying we could be informed of every move. But this would require a huge amount of work because it involves movements in global pharmaceutical companies. On the other hand, these are sometimes primary materials that are interrupted or are subject to a monopoly. In this case, things are more difficult, but nothing prevents us from asking for information. In any event, I believe that the AFMPS has already done a colossal work that took a lot of time. With respect to the Pharma Status platform, information should be available not only for prescribers and pharmacists but also for patients, as as soon as there is a rumor or an advertisement, patients tend to create stocks. We saw this for the Marevan, even before we interrupted production. Some people tend to stock at the slightest event. It is a normal reflex peculiar to man but it naturally worsens the problem. As far as hospitals are concerned, we're going to start working. When I was working in the hospital, when a problem of availability occurred during the long weekends, it was already happening. It's collegiality between hospitals. But when we network with several hospitals, this will happen more frequently because storage will be managed collectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u30	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u31	For pharmacies, they haven't started yet. For the time being, registration numbers remain in hospitals where there is a pharmacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u32	In line with the logic of the networks, hospitals have planned to have only one registration number. Can it be changed? Because there will be one problem per site.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u33	I know and understand the demand. It'll be useful. But we must first set up the networks. Quotas for the supply of medicines are set by firms. They are based on the number of boxes or daily doses delivered the previous year and on the needs of the population. For stock breaks, you say we need to talk to the firms, but that's what the AFMPS does. Solutions are found together, quotas are negotiated. The different agencies similar to AFMPS work very well together within the European Medicines Agency (EMA). The exchange of information is ongoing. There is a real network within the European Union. We know that in the meantime, EMA has had to move twice and is now in Amsterdam. As a result, she also lost a few collaborators. It wasn't easy for EMA to continue her work, but she did. There is a great deal of cooperation between the different Member States and their agencies within the EMA. It is obviously useful, as you think, that there is always the exchange of problems or possible solutions. I'll give you the painting, or email it through the secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u34	I think that both the minister and most members are looking forward to further questions. But I'm just going to ask if there are any more of you who want to speak in this debate. As I said, we had nine oral questions from Mrs Merckx, Mrs Tillieux, Mrs Taquin and Mrs Creemers, who had already come to tell me that she had answered her question. I have understood in several speeches that the question has already been asked. I do, however, give the opportunity, if anyone so wishes, to intervene or ask the minister a final question in this debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u35	I'll be brief. Madam Minister, I understand that we have not grown together on the issue of the right of substitution in the context of the inaccessibility. I wanted to come back to that VOC (rules on dust name). You said it's good news that the electronic prescription is on the rise. I would like to draw attention to the VOCs which have been created to promote generic medicines a little more. One of RIZIV's health recommendations is that by 2021 we should have 10% more generics on the market. Maybe that's a working point to take with you in the next few months. For the rest, I have no further comments. I would like to refer to our legislative proposal, which will be discussed shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u36	Mr President, I did not understand very well whether we should ask our questions now.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u37	Yes, you may. As long as they haven't been asked or answered, that's possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u38	Now's the time? I would also like to give other colleagues the opportunity to ask their questions on other issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u39	That'll come after. There were nine questions on this subject. If you feel that your questions have not been answered, you can ask them now, because after that these nine questions are considered answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u40	Mrs De Block, you say that I put words in your mouth that you have not spoken, but as far as I know, I have not spoken of communism here. I don't know if anyone heard that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u41	No, it's obvious. You have spoken about capitalism, and I have taken the other extreme as far as the availability of medicines is concerned, and I have chosen communism for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u42	So I didn't talk about communism. I'm talking about an idea that lives with many academics and people on the ground. We will be able to discuss this much in the context of the prices of medicines, in particular that medicines should actually become a public good. Secondly, I understand that no fines are imposed. That's important information. I fully agree with you that if there were fines, the costs should not end up on the roof of the patients or the RIZIV. For me it is therefore a bit premature to say that fines would not be a solution because they do not exist in Belgium. I think that slope should be examined permanently. As far as Hygroton is concerned, I fully understand that there was a stock breach and I have to be careful, because I seem to interpret you sometimes wrongly that there were financial reasons for this, especially the low price. The low price would therefore be the reason for the stock breach. That is something that many people feel on the ground and I think that is a reason to write a fine.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u43	No, I said there was a problem with the packaging for Hygroton. I've got this information from the decision tree. It was a temporary packing problem. It wasn't off the market. The decision tree said that there were enough alternatives. At Marevan the price for the producing company was too low. Because the medicine became cheaper every few years, they decided to take the tout court off the market and no longer do production. They informed us of this and then the RIZIV negotiated another price to keep it available. Especially since there isn't an immediate alternative to Marevan. Switching blood thinners can also pose a certain risk to patients. This could lead to too thin or too thick blood with all its complications and the panic associated with it. The problem was that it was an older medicine. After a cost-benefit analysis by the company, they decided that production was too expensive in terms of price and production to stop. We also see this happening with other older medicines which suddenly disappear from the market, while many patients are being helped by the product. After all, it is not always the newest thing to prescribe.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u44	I do not agree with the analysis of the AFMPS (FAGG) that there is a good alternative to Hygroton. Hygroton is the first choice, just like Marevan for anticoagulants. It's a less critical drug, but high blood pressure is a pathology that occurs massively. If all these people are put on second-choice medicine, that's not really scientific. I'll take a look at my oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u45	Hygroton will be available again, because it is a packaging problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u46	I hope it'll be available soon. It's not the first time it's been unavailable. It's getting harder and harder to prescribe. My first question I submitted was about Maniprox and the stock breach in Camcolit. It's a question in French. What measures do you intend to take with Essential Pharma, which clearly took advantage of Maniprex's stock failure situation to impose an unjustifiable price increase for its Camcolit medication? Will you encourage Essential Pharma to enter a refund file? If I understand correctly, it's in class. What measures do you intend to take to prevent social security from paying prices that are disproportionate to the cost of production, if the price of Camcolit is compared to that given by Test Achats?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u47	There is such a thing as the Committee on Medicinal Products. The Reimbursement Commission for Medicinal Products is looking at the reimbursement of the medicinal product. The price, on the other hand, falls within the competence of the Minister of Economy. So we're not setting the prices. The pricing is done by the Minister responsible for Economics. Then the price comes to us, to the Committee on Medicinal Products, which must base its reimbursement on the price determined by the Minister for Economic Affairs. You give me too much power. I'd love to, but reality is different. The Minister for Economic Affairs does the pricing. The Committee on the Prevention of Medicinal Products always starts from the price set by the Minister for Economic Affairs. For Camcolit there has indeed been a huge price increase, but it can only come to us if it is approved by the Minister of Economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u48	The file for the refund is pending? Is Camcolit being repaid or not yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u49	A solution is being sought. We have asked the Committee on Medicinal Products how we can ensure that there is a kind of ticket modérator for the patient. That file's running. The price is intended to be limited to a substantial part of the overall price.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u50	If the price stays the same, then it will RIZIV...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u51	This is a consequence of the fact that the medicine was approved for a higher price in our country. There is nothing the RIZIV can do about this and neither can the Committee on Medicinal Products. That award was made by the Minister of Economics. Then it'll come to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u52	Could you perhaps bring that up with the Minister of Economy?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u53	I invite you to do that. Many economic ministers have already been called upon to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u54	I had tabled another question on Clamoxyl, but you have already answered some of it. I find it rather odd that there would be a raw material problem for Clamoxyl. That's weird for a drug that's been around since 1972. What am I supposed to imagine about this raw material problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u55	The stability of the primary raw material sodium amoxicillin was not guaranteed. Therefore, production had to be interrupted. Whether the raw material or the supplier has changed, I did not find out. There are only a few suppliers of that raw material. Apparently, a method of production is being sought.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u56	We have asked for a representative of CSF to be heard on this committee. The other committee members did not agree. I have a scientific education. How can one produce 40 % but not 100 % with an unstable raw material? What financial resources does CSF have to increase or not increase that production?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u57	In order to be able to produce, GSK must have the raw material at its disposal. GSK can declare here in a hearing that the raw material is untraceable, that there is insufficient raw material available or that the raw material is too unstable to be used.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u58	Do you have the means to verify whether such claims are correct, or to carry out inspections, possibly at international level?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u59	You yourself have the right to request a visit from GSK. I advise you to do so. At the time I visited the company when the vaccine against cervical cancer was developed and during my visit I asked GSK to explain everything completely. That is very interesting work for Members of Parliament. You won't be bored there.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u60	We are now dealing with a specific problem. That is why I expect the authorities concerned to find out.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u61	As a Member of Parliament, you can ask for a meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u62	Do we, as Members of this House, have to investigate why there is a stock breach for a particular medicine?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u63	Why not? Your interest is sufficient, isn't it? You wished to invite the company to hearings, but no consensus could be reached on this. However, nothing prevents you from visiting there.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u64	I find it incredible that this is still being proposed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u65	May I suggest that we continue to deal with the questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u66	Dear colleague, can we move forward on the questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u67	Madam Secretary, the last question was about Femara. You explained that Femara's been subject to quotas. I think the quota is against the obligation to supply. That is also what the wholesalers have explained that they actually have an obligation to supply which they cannot comply with because of that quota. Why don't you take legal action against that practice of quota?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u68	The legal step I took was in that law. This has been done in consultation with wholesalers and distributors. It's been discussed, but apparently they didn't like the law. They then went to the Constitutional Court on the basis of other information. That's their right. Anyone can go to trial in this country. On that basis, one provision in one article has been deleted. We will now remedy that. The rest of that law remains in force.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u69	Is that law already in force?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u70	The law was passed in April and entered into force. However, opponents went to the Constitutional Court very quickly, followed by a suspension. Now there is a cancellation of one provision in one article. We will draw up a repair plan for this purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u71	You say that your law will solve the problem of quota, but today there is still quota.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u72	No, the quota system itself is not problematic if there is enough supply in our country. The quota system becomes problematic if it does not follow the needs, especially if there is a sale abroad before the needs of that medicine are met in Belgium. We wanted to take action against this. A quota is often required. For example, there is a gradual release of all available flu vaccines so that they could be present everywhere at the same time. The quota of Clamoxyl was obtained because Pentrexyl had disappeared. As a result, Clamoxyl's production had to increase. Production and availability are now higher than in 2016, but Pentrexyl has disappeared. There'll be a cascade, as it were. At some point there is another problem with the raw materials and then it is of course impossible to meet these needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u73	Mr. Chairman, I have just consulted the services, because my question about the increase in the cost of drugs has been included in the eMeeting on the House site. It has nothing to do with this debate. As a matter of fact, it remains current. Of course, I am not going to force the minister to answer that now, as long as I expect a full and prepared answer, but I would like it to be taken into account at a future meeting. This is not the first time I have noticed a difficulty of this order. In any case, I did not understand the cause of this technical problem. The question was not in the eMeeting this morning, but it is now attached to the debate, although it does not belong to it. So I wanted to report it to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u74	Mr. Prévot, that's a good note. I confirm that she is not on my list of oral questions either. Mrs Tillieux, you still wanted to ask further questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u75	Mr. Chairman, first of all, I would like to thank the Minister for her clarifications on specific cases. However, I still have a few questions, particularly about three points. The first is related to the Questran. You told me that a compensation system was being developed to prevent patients from having to take care of the extra cost of the medicine. Texts have been submitted, notably by the Open VLD. What is your design of this compensatory device? How do you intend to act? I've heard of a fund. If so, how will it be fed? Secondly, I come back to my proposal concerning the system of notification of exports of wholesalers and wholesalers-partitioners to the AFMPS. I asked you if this device was being considered. Since you haven't answered me, I'd like to hear your opinion. Finally, within the Agency, a working group on unavailability issued recommendations in early 2018, if I am not mistaken. You say, however, that you are not in a position to know whether the royal decree will be made. The time has come to see if it is possible to implement these recommendations. I therefore ask you the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u76	In order to introduce a royal order, it is necessary to know the final conclusion of the Court concerning the deletion of the section of law. We were, of course, already attentive. Furthermore, Mrs Tillieux, as you know, taking a royal order is not in one day. There are a number of notices to take and a journey to follow. It will take as long as it takes, as for all royal decrees. If it were possible to do it in one turn, it would be much easier. However, we had already begun not at the time of the annulment but at the time of the suspension decision. As far as the Questran is concerned, Mr. From Caluwe will be there soon. In the meantime, it's up to you to discuss it. It is true that a royal decree will then be required. As for a possible fund, it is not up to me to put it in place. Some thought that funding was possible through taxation in place within INAMI, but this money has a different use. As I said, when there is a fund, one can spend one euro at a time but not one euro twice.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u77	Mrs De Block, thank you. Are there any other questions in this debate?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u78	Mr President, can we still react?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u79	Of course, you can still react briefly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u80	A proposal from the Open Vld is on the table. Minister, can you tell me if the proposed solution goes through a fund?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u81	That's not necessary. It's up to them to decide how they're going to provide the money.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u82	So you're not the one imagining the solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u83	No, not as far as payment is concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u84	Ladies and gentlemen, I think we can close this debate, this fourth hearing, on the unavailability of medicines. Of course, we will not close it altogether because we will be discussing the two bills in the near future and I assume that the news will come up again and again. We shall now turn to the rest of the oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u85	Questions Nos 55000203C and 55000880C by Ms Katrien Jadin are transformed into written questions. For my part, I have to leave early. Mrs. Tillieux, I know you have a special communal council tonight in Namur. Do you intend to stay to the end?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u86	Mr President, I was in fact going to overshadow myself once my questions had been asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u87	I assumed it. Mrs. Jirofflée will replace me. She must also leave before the end. Minister, are you available until 6:00 p.m.?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u88	I'm available.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u89	Mr President, Madam Minister, on March 28, our assembly voted an important text to improve women's access to contraception and to strengthen their right to dispose of their bodies. Thanks to the vote on the bill put forward by my Socialist colleagues, we have made it possible to extend free access to contraception to all women up to the age of 25. Free access to the next day's pill was extended to all women, regardless of their age. For my group, it is clear that access to contraception, and therefore full health care coverage, should be extended to all women. However, for budgetary reasons, we decided to frame the measure. The vote on this measure has therefore been an important step forward for the sexual and reproductive rights of women. A measure which also had a budgetary impact since its cost could be estimated by INAMI and amounted to EUR 6 million. This is finally a very small amount compared to the overall budget for our health care, which amounts to just over 26 billion in 2019, and especially very little in view of the significant savings that have affected our health care during the last legislature. Madam Minister, despite their support for our text, the MR, the Open Vld and the CD&V wanted to make the implementation of this measure conditional upon the adoption of a royal decree. The progress which we have made and which has already been welcomed by family planning, by several doctors and by women's associations has already been legal force. We would not understand that you would not allow its implementation, knowing that the law was published in the Belgian Monitor on 22 April. Could you tell us, then, what is the status of this royal decree and when women will actually be able to benefit from it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u90	Mrs Tillieux, as you know, this measure has a considerable impact on the budget. That is why the royal decree was voted for. This year, in all the committees, we saw several proposals that had a cost. Current and ongoing budgetary challenges arise in the Department of Health Care. In addition, I would like to point out that the Insurance Committee did not provide any resources for this measure either in its proposed budget for 2020, which was voted on by the Committee and which was submitted yesterday to the General Council. It will be up to the next government to find money for this pill for those under the age of 25.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u91	Even if we are in day-to-day business, you can implement and enforce laws that have been passed. Finally, since the budget of the Insurance Committee has obviously not passed the bar of the General Council of INAMI, it is up to you, to know what we are going to do with the budget, not with the next government. You have everything in your hands to decide.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u92	That's what I'm saying. The proposal was astonishing me. That's why I said she wasn't acceptable. She doesn't understand enough for patients. A favorable element for patients who were not present was the reimbursement of the contraceptive pill until the age of 25. You agree with me: there wasn't enough in it for the patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u93	I am therefore pleased that you intend to introduce patient-friendly proposals, including this measure on the reimbursement of contraceptives.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u94	We must make a balanced proposal, in which the patient finds himself. We must also respect the decisions that have been made in the House in favour of patients. But we must always know that this is not an easy exercise, and certainly not when, at the end, we have to have a picture with what goes into INAMI and what comes out of it. We did not find a good picture either with the proposal made yesterday in the General Council. For this reason, I said it could not pass. Indeed, the addition must be made. It is easy to make an execution order, but you must also have the means to pay for it. These resources were not provided for, and I could not do so, even if the budget had been adopted. We have to keep looking.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u95	Mrs Tillieux has the floor for a final word. I would remind you that normally this is the question, the minister's answer, and then the reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u96	I will react by saying that other measures have been implemented in recent months. Some, however, had a budgetary impact, particularly on VAT, and were well implemented. I therefore propose that the Minister give her a thorough consideration in order to enforce this decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u97	Until now, I am not a Minister of Finance! VAT is not my home!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u98	This remains a choice of government. I'll close here, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u99	Madam Secretary, the question of HBO5 nurses has been on the agenda for a long time. Their training still does not meet certain conditions. The Flemish Government is indeed not in favour of extending this training. That is a pity, because not only are nurses' working conditions not really optimal, to express it euphemistically, but the training is less attractive. The governments do not come up with a solution, and both the Flemish and the federal government are guilty of umbrella politics. This also confirms our view that the competence in this area is better placed at one level, so that a coherent policy can be pursued. Anyway, with our proposal to extend the Bachelor's degree programme to that of the Master's programme, which would greatly enhance the nursing profession, there would also be a solution for the HBO5 nurses, a solution that is still not available today. The WUG Act is now registered, as a kind of transition, that anyone who started the HBO5 training before 2016 may still call himself a nurse and thus be allowed to practice the profession. Those who started the training in the second semester of the academic year 2015-2016 will be treated in the same way. But this summer, the first students who started the nursing programme in the academic year 2016-2017 are graduating. That creates a lot of uncertainty on the ground. In those circumstances, I would like to be assured that this year's graduate HBO5 nurses who started their training after the academic year 2015-2016 will also receive the visa to practice the profession of nurse. What will you do with the HBO5 nurses? Do you see a solution? If so, which one? Will you provide for a separate professional title? We see here an opportunity to allow those involved to practice their profession at the same time, so that there is no shortage in the field, and to increase the Bachelor's programme to the master's level. However, you should state that the HBO5 course retains the title of nursing/care. What's your long-term plan for this? It is time to remove uncertainty from those involved. It is a very difficult profession. We are dealing with very poor working conditions; there is less influx of candidates and there are shortages on the market. Will you remove uncertainty from the nurses involved and create a framework?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u100	Mrs Van Camp, this is indeed an important problem, which occurs only in Flanders and not in Wallonia or Brussels. On 10 October 2019, Belgium was defaulted by an additional letter of formal notice issued by the European Commission with regard to the implementation of Articles 21 (6) and 31 of Directive No. 36 of 2005. In practical terms, it concerns the transposition of the European conditions of knowledge, skills and competences, as well as the minimum training requirements for the general care professional. For Flanders, the Commission states in its letter of formal notice that HBO5 training in Flanders does not appear to meet the minimum training requirements laid down in Article 31 of that Directive. The Commission states that the federal government lays down the requirements for access to the profession. The federal competence is well defined. The Federal Government lays down the requirements for access to the general care profession and is responsible for issuing a permit allowing its holder to exercise the profession, the so-called visa, as soon as applicants meet the minimum training requirements. However, it is the three Communities which have exclusive competence to organise the training programmes which meet the federal requirements. However, that is where the shoe pinches, although only in Flanders. The Commission notes that while the co-ordinated law of 10 May 2015 on the exercise of healthcare professions appears to correctly transpose the minimum training requirements laid down in the 2005 Directive, some training programmes, which are included in Community legislation and entitle graduates to apply for a visa at federal level, do not comply with those minimum training requirements. From the relevant legislation in force in the Flemish Community, it can be inferred that the education programme for obtaining the diploma of graduate nurse/nurse HBO5, as listed in Annex 5 to the 2005 Directive, only provides for 3,600 hours of training. The relevant decisions of the Government in force in the German Community also contain contradictions and lead to the conclusion that the minimum requirements for the training programmes leading to the diploma of recognized nurse are 3,601 hours of education, of which only 1,867 hours of clinical education should be. The Commission further notes that it appears that students in those programmes, the first group of whom should have been trained under the new required Directive, were still graduate in June 2019, will still have access to the profession of responsible general nurse, which the Commission considers to be contrary to the requirements of the 2005 Directive. So the problem is already there. The Commission therefore considers that Belgium has failed to fulfil its obligation under Article 21 (6) and Article 31 of the Directive by failing to adapt its training programmes of graduate nurse/nurse HBO5 and Brevet Krankenpflege, which grant access to the profession of general care nurse in Belgium, to the minimum requirements of the same Directive. Over the last few years, we have had repeated discussions on the transposition of the European directive into the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Health and I have taken several initiatives to draw the attention of the relevant ministers to the need for correct transposition of the directive. I refer in particular to my letter to the then competent Minister Crevits on 4 April 2017, on 18 October 2018 and on 4 July 2019. In addition, the issue was also discussed in the Federal Council for Nursing. The President of the Federal Council for Nursing also expressed his concern to the then Minister for Education. Meanwhile, there is a new Minister of Education. I'm always willing to tell him again. We're not that far apart, by the way. I think he's gonna have a lot of work to do with this, because it's a very complicated file. The position of the Flemish Government on HBO5, as expressed in the coalition agreement, is known to me. That requires a new policy because of the federal government, but that cannot be done in current cases. The position will therefore have to be determined when a new federal government agreement is being drawn up, and we must, of course, include the Commission's letters and the arguments here in the discussion. In the meantime, I take the initiative to ask the ministers of the Flemish Government about the measures that will be taken to ensure that the knowledge, skills and competences as well as the minimum training requirements for general nurses at Flemish level are included in Article 21 (6) and Article 31 of the 2005 directive. Otherwise there will still be problems with the next batch of graduates. I think that is a very important problem. I've written a lot of letters about that, but it still hasn't been resolved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u101	Until then, you will issue the visa?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u102	No, the Commission says that those who have now graduated are no longer in conformity with the visa.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u103	So you're not delivering a visa anymore?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u104	They have received a visa, but the Commission is now saying in the final warning report that it is actually being wrongly issued. That's the problem. Something must be done at that level.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u105	Absolutely. I thought you were gonna issue the visas and they could still get to work. I wasn't aware they were no longer valid. So they can't practice their profession anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u106	They have still received the visa, but the Commission says that they no longer meet the conditions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u107	You do what you can, but the nurses in the field are of little use to letters being sent and consultations being held. If the visas are no longer valid today, a solution must be found. People don't solve that by sending letters. Nurses' working conditions are so bad today. For home nursing, funding is lagging behind. There's not enough hands on the bed. That'll add up. Then we are surprised that there is not enough inflow and that there is a shortage in the labour market. This can't be happening. It proves once again that the country's structure is also detrimental to policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u108	This is a Flemish competence. Your party is fully competent for this in Flanders. You shouldn't turn the world upside down. I have a number of things to say. The people on the ground can't do anything about that. The nursing students and the students HBO5 can't help that. That is up to the policy-makers, the Minister of Education. I have pointed out in letters, which will undoubtedly have been inherited by Minister Weyts, that we will be in trouble if the training does not meet the European requirements. Who should ensure that the training meets this requirement? That's the Minister of Education. How long has Education been transferred to Flanders? It's been a long time. The Minister was fully competent to do so. It did happen in Wallonia. Then why couldn't it happen in Flanders? What we do ourselves, we do better. Well, get on with it!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u109	I find it intellectually unfair to shoot a minister who has just started inheriting a file ruined by his predecessors. So far, you remain the Federal Minister responsible for the exercise of the profession. You may not be responsible for drawing up the training, but you are responsible for bringing together the partners and for drawing up a solution. Access to the profession is, after all, federal. So the solution will come from under your wings. That is what we expect from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u110	Minister, I tabled this question in July. It relates to the evolution of drug indication extensions in our country. Therefore, it has no direct connection with our current affairs debate. It is certain that, under the previous legislature, many initiatives have been taken to lower the price of medicines. To this end, you entered into a future pact with the pharmaceutical industry in 2015. Subsequently, thousands of medicines have seen their prices decrease, mainly twice. So last April, 4,000 medicines became cheaper for our fellow citizens. In all, almost half of them experienced a tariff decline during the previous legislature. It is good to remind him, even if there is still work to be done. This represents around EUR 10 million in annual savings for our citizens. It is all the more important to note that such measures include anti-hypertensive measures, asthma medicines or rheumatism – in short, important ills. So that's positive news! Who could challenge it, even if it is obviously necessary to continue the work, especially since the prospects remain unclear? Indeed, according to some information, the Monitoring Committee estimates that by 2024 there would be a shortfall of EUR 1.4 billion in the reimbursement budget for medicinal products, as new, very costly therapies are being developed within the research and innovation services of pharmaceutical companies. If, in substance, these initiatives are extremely useful for patients, an appropriate reimbursement system will be needed to ensure access to these new treatments. Moreover, you have recently indicated that it would be necessary for the next government to negotiate a new future pact with the pharmaceutical sector. In this context, is an assessment of the impact of drug indication extensions conducted on a regular basis? Do these extensions have a significant impact on the overall budget? Specifically, minister, could you please tell me what procedures are in place for a firm to follow when a new indication relates to a drug that has already been reimbursed, in the case of an extension of reimbursement status? Of course, there are several types of extension, but I would like to know more generally how many extension procedures have been registered since 2015. Does your department conclude that procedural changes should be made? In view of the results of this pact - and of your wishes - and taking into account the progress made in terms of tariff reductions, but also the increase in the price of new medicines, can you inform us of the measures to be taken?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u111	Madam Minister, my question is also about the future pact. In the meantime, this has become a topical debate. Yesterday I read in Het Laatste Nieuws that between now and 2024 an amount of EUR 1.4 billion would be needed for the prices of medicines. At the end of July 2015, you signed the future pact with the Belgian pharmaceutical industry. One of the pillars of this Pact is the reimbursement of innovative medicines, including through the Article 81 agreements. New medicinal products whose efficacy is still uncertain have already been made available to the patient. You negotiate directly with the pharmaceutical company to obtain discounts on the price of the product. It is time to draw up a bilan of this future pact. The original intention was to use this procedure only exceptionally. However, more and more of these contracts are being concluded, for ever greater amounts, which puts a great deal of pressure on the health insurance budget. Do you envisage an overall assessment of the future pact? What assessment do you make of the Article 81 procedure? Can you give an overview of the evolution of the amount of medicines and the corresponding budget? For how many medicines was the therapeutic added value proven? The latest wave of expensive pills concerns the latest generation of innovative treatments, including promising cancer therapies. This summer, an article was published in the press that showed that the reimbursement of cancer medicines cost more than 1 billion euros in 2018 than in 2016. According to the foundation Kom Op Tegen Kanker, the prices charged by the pharmaceutical industry for new medications have become unreasonable. Sometimes hundreds of thousands of euros per patient are involved. How many patients were treated with immune therapy in 2016, 2017 and 2018? How much did our health insurance cost these immune therapies? I read in an article that classical cancer therapy costs between EUR 15,000 and EUR 30,000 per patient and immune therapy for cancer costs between EUR 150,000 and EUR 300,000 per patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u112	Dear colleagues, when a firm wishes to obtain a refund of a new indication for an already repayable proprietary medicinal product, it must submit an application for an amendment to the terms and conditions of reimbursement to the Commission de réimbursement des Medicinal Products (CRM) for the speciality concerned. Since 2015, 739 applications for amendments and repayment terms have been processed by the CRM. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that these cases concern new indications and also technical adaptations or changes to the repayment conditions relating to an already repayable indication. Unfortunately, we do not have a breakdown of the files relating to a request for a new indication between 2015 and June 2018. However, since the procedure was amended on July 1, 2018, since that date, I have more precise data and I can inform you that between July 1 and February 1, 2019, 23 claims for changes to the repayment terms and conditions for the refund of a new indication have been submitted to the CRM. To answer your question about the possible trend in reducing the cost of medicines, I would like to inform you that I am continuing to take steps to continue the effort desired and enshrined in the pact of the future. For example, as of 1 April 2019, a measure called "volume cliff" came into effect, in order to further increase savings in insurance and for citizens in the field of medicines. During 2019, I also instructed the CRM to initiate several group reviews within the different classes of medicines with a view to continuing the budgetary effort and harmonising as much as possible the prices of the medicines concerned. I remain committed to continuing the effort to ensure the sustainability of our health care system as well as access to quality medication for all patients. I come to Mrs Merckx's precise questions about immunotherapy. Since 2016, this new therapy in Belgium has been accessible to treat some of the most aggressive cancers, which are a form of lung cancer and melanoma. As from 1 January 2017, immunotherapy will follow a different route than conventional treatment for reimbursement. Therefore, cancer patients who can be helped by these therapies receive a year's refund more quickly than by the normal route. This is right after registration with the European Medicines Agency, the EEA. That is important, because they are seriously ill people who cannot wait another year after their diagnosis and therefore get sicker, because there are no alternatives to that either. This accelerated repayment is financed by the measures in the future pact and price agreements with the firms concerned. Indeed, the future pact was concluded for four years in 2015. So it's over now. I thought after the elections in May there would be a new government already. I have indeed recommended that we also make a new future pact. The Future Pact for the patient consisted of several parts. Firstly, mainly savings for the government, but also for the patient on the off-patent medicines. Secondly, public funds invest in innovative medicines and therapies. That is what we have done. We knew that, so to speak, a full train of innovative medicines arrived, but I said at one point that it was actually a TGV. There were more and more indications and more drugs. Meanwhile, cohorting drugs were reimbursed because they were used for therapies for which no drugs previously existed and, in particular, for children with cancer. As a result, our spending on innovative medicines has increased. In the meantime, health insurance already pays back five immunotherapys to the patient. Mrs Merckx, they have the nice names Opdivo, Yervoy, Keytruda, Tecentriq and Bavencio. All exotic names that aren't easy to pronounce. These therapies are for melanoma, lung cancer, kidney cell cancer, Hodgkin's lymphoma, head and neck cancer, urothelium cancer and generic cell cancer, respectively. The latter has nothing to do with Angela Merkel. For the first two years, approximately 4,500 patients in our country have been treated with immunotherapy. The expectation is that the next five years, with what is now and in the painline, will add 22,000 more. That is why we need a new future pact for our patients. I quote Dr. Janssen: "The patient doesn't have time to wait." That's what inspired us to make a shorter journey for those drugs. After all, it is frustrating to have to say to a patient that there is no medication for his illness now but that it will be there within a year. The patient doesn't need that kind of answer. We must be able to say that if such a medicine is registered with the EEA, it will also be there for him.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u113	Thank you, Minister, for your clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u114	Madam Secretary, I'm a little disappointed in your analysis. You are not giving any real evaluation of the Article 81 procedure. You also did not say how many drugs are being paid back, in general terms. That's where I'm gonna be starved to death. The aim must be to manage the costs, but we see that the secret deals do not manage the costs at all. I therefore find it strange that you are proposing to continue with the same thing, although the budget is completely derailed. I find that a somewhat peculiar attitude of yours.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u115	What do you think of a Minister of Health who ensures that medication already approved at European level is reimbursed for our patients, without already meeting the criteria of the Committee on Medication Medicines, for example, because there have not been enough patients included in the studies? You are talking about Article 81 and talking about secret contracts, but you know that it is about a whole committee. These people have a confidentiality clause on the financial part, but several ministers are represented in it, as are the sickness funds. It would be classified if it were a deal between me and the firm involved. I know that Mrs Jiroflée calls this the Maggy Deals, and I am glad that there are by the way in the newspaper, because it is getting really laughable. For me, if that medicine is available without alternative, the patient has the right to get it faster. That's how we solved it. You know, by the way, that this article was still designed by Mr Vandenbroucke, but was first used by Mrs Onkelinx in 2010. There are more and more innovative molecules in the pipeline that can be made available to the patient. The number is only rising, as is also apparent in the countries around us. Yes, Mrs Merckx, so we spend a lot of money on medicines, because we can now cure diseases that have not been cured in the past. At a symposium on innovation, I heard a pediatrician specializing in oncology and blood diseases say that she always had to tell parents of a new patient that there was nothing to do about it, but that she never thought she was younger than I thought that the day would come when there was something to be done about it. That's what I find my drive in, that's what I'm going for, to give our patients the right to healing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u116	Parliament has the final say.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u117	Madam Minister, as Minister, you must answer the questions of Members of Parliament. You did not answer my question about how many molecules we are talking about, how many deals have been agreed and what budgets are associated with them. Even if we do not know the price of the individual medicines, we are entitled to those answers, so I think you should give them. I am not only convinced that the Article 81 procedure is increasingly being applied to medicines that are not necessarily innovative or very recent. As an example, I mention Lucentis, which we discussed yesterday, a medicine that is not very new and is not registered in Belgium. Another example is sofosbuvir, a medicine for hepatitis C.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u118	Lucentis is registered and will be refunded.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u119	Then why did you make a secret deal about Lucentis? It is also covered by Article 81, if I understand correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u120	You say that Lucentis will not be repaid in Belgium, but it will be repaid.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u121	I didn't say it wasn't paid back.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u122	Yes, you did; that's what you just said.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u123	I said that the procedure laid down in Article 81 is used to make medicines that are European registered directly available to the patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u124	Yeah, that's the shortest circuit we've made. However, there is another channel, which includes Lucentis. When a company offers a medicine in Belgium, it is first and foremost the Committee on Medicinal Products. If, at the time of submission, the Commission does not yet have sufficient scientific evidence, sufficient people who have been included and the results are established, it may refer to Article 81. If the Commission finds that medicinal products are not sufficiently cost-effective in its negotiations, the cost of the medicinal product can also be referred to Article 81. As a minister, I cannot commit myself to the entry into force of the procedure under Article 81. Discussions on this subject will always take place through the Committee on Medicinal Products. This does not apply to immunotherapy, for which we have made a shortcut, which does not mean that a year of negotiations will end first through the Committee on Medicinal Products.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u125	That brings us a little closer to the heart of the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u126	Where the Commission proposes that medicinal products should not be given an opinion or that reimbursement should not be allowed, any reimbursement should be made under Article 81. Last year, however, I sent back to the Committee on Medicinal Products about fifteen, I believe to be 17, of such dossiers, because we believe that there was sufficient evidence on the basis of the dossier and there was indeed an opportunity to arrive at an acceptable price, which led me to instruct the Committee on Medicinal Products to carry out its tasks in those files.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u127	I expected that effectively in the answer. I shall perhaps ask a new question, because how many applications for Article 81 have you not made? I'm also thinking of sofosbuvir. That's also a drug that everyone knows its effectiveness. It's registered. Why is that still covered by Article 81 today? This procedure, which I wanted to achieve, is increasingly being abused by the pharmaceutical industry in order not to be transparent about the real costs of research and development. The PVDA believes that we should not go any further with these secret deals, because they cannot be kept and cause prices to explode, which was once again proved in yesterday's article of Latest News. We need compulsory licences and we have put forward a priority legislative proposal for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u128	If that is a solution, it would be good, but it is not one. I can explain it to you technically. It would mean that you would get your will, but that our patients would not have access to those medicines and that even more patients would have to go abroad. Frank Vandenbroucke had the idea that we would ever need the mechanism, because it was already used abroad. Laurette Onkelinx has begun to use it and I think it is right that she did, because without that article a lot of people would not have had access to that medication. I said what would happen to your proposal. If you want to do that, and if you're sitting in my chair, you're gonna have to do it, and I'm gonna keep fighting it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u129	We're closing the debate here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u130	I'm asking for one last word. I would ask you, Mrs De Block, to evaluate Rule 81. I didn't get it today. You've been very vague.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u131	The debate will undoubtedly continue in the discussion of the legislative proposals tabled by several Members, including the hearing that we held on Monday.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u132	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mrs Van Peel's 55000095C and 55000101C were postponed. Question No 55000108C by Mrs Fonck will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u133	Madam Minister, I tabled this question on 25 July and in the meantime it has already been put in plenary. Similar questions were also raised during the hearings that were held here. If you pretend to hear my questions for the first time, I will pretend to hear your answer for the first time. Biogen's biotechnology company brought Spinraza to the Belgian market for the treatment of SMA last year. Test Purchase has lodged a complaint against Biogen with the Belgian Competition Authority because Biogen would abuse its monopoly position to keep Spinraza's price artificially high. In Belgium the price is no less than 88,300 euros, which for a treatment with Spinraza amounts to about 530,000 euros in the first year and 265,000 euros in the following years. If we look at Biogen and Ionis' financial reports, we can see that nearly $2 billion more has been raised than the development of the drug has cost. In 2 years Spinraza accounted for a turnover of 2.61 billion compared to an investment of 648 million dollars. For Belgian patients, the product will be refunded. Our country has therefore negotiated with the Netherlands with the producer. However, it is not known how large the discounts you have been able to agree. You stated in the media that our country was able to obtain an acceptable price. I would have liked to have heard from you what you mean by the concept of 'acceptable price' and on which you base yourself. What discounts did you get? Are there any additional conditions under that deal? If there are, which one is it? Is the conditional reimbursement under Article 81 already available for the Spinraza case? What's it say? What is your attitude to the complaint submitted by Test Purchase to the BMA? I have a second set of questions. According to publicly available data, under the famous Article 81 1 billion in 'concluded agreements', I should no longer be talking about secret deals or Maggie Deals. It would be 87 products and a total of 273 million euros of discounts would have been agreed. Can the Minister confirm those figures? Do you have any more recent figures? Would you like to make it available?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u134	Mr Creyelman, as for all medicinal products for which a fee is or has been claimed, there are five evaluation criteria that are charged for the reimbursement of a medicinal product when making the decision on reimbursement. That is the therapeutic value, the price and the basis for reimbursement, the importance of the speciality in medical practice, the budgetary impact and the relationship between the cost of insurance and the therapeutic value, the so-called cost-effectiveness. The aim is always to obtain a price that is socially acceptable and proportionate to the value of the medicinal product. If, on the basis of these criteria, there is a willingness to reimburse, but the financial costs are unacceptable, treatment may be temporarily reimbursed under specified conditions, using a compensation mechanism to reduce the costs to society. This is, in the first place, to give the patient access, as I have already said, to new, sometimes promising or unique treatments and not to deny them in the short term, as well as to give the pharmaceutical company the opportunity to further demonstrate and prove the value of the medicine in a real life setting. The exact conditions that the pharmaceutical company must fulfil in order to enable this temporary reimbursement and the various compensation mechanisms I have mentioned here one of the last few weeks are laid down in an agreement. The addendum to that is classified. The scientific part of the agreement and other parts shall not be kept secret. The compensation negotiated in this case belongs to the confidential part of the agreement. The Spinraza medicinal product shall be reimbursed under the strict conditions laid down in the relevant paragraphs of Chapter IV of the list of recoverable proprietary medicinal products. These conditions show that the modalities were negotiated in such a way, first together with the Netherlands, that a solution could be found for the very broad group of patients who might benefit from Spinraza. The conclusion of the agreement is scheduled for the end of 2020. A new evaluation will also be foreseen during 2020. With regard to the complaint submitted by Test Purchase, I understand the position regarding the high price. That is why it is important for me too that, in addition to taking the five evaluation criteria that are at the forefront of the decision on reimbursement, we continue to work together at international level and that we negotiate together to find the best possible solution for patients, as has happened for Spinraza. We had about the same number of patients as the Netherlands. We sat together to negotiate for a larger cohort of patients. We have framed the use well. Only the specialised centres can administer the medicine. They monitor medical records of patient progress by administration of the medication. These data can then be taken into account in the evaluation. It has to be said, for example, whether it really is such a spectacular drug as was claimed and whether the high cost of the drug and the negotiations were justified. For the answer to your question as to whether a report has also been produced on the number of agreements and expenditure for those medicinal products, please refer to the standardised report on the expenditure booked for 2018. This is a permanent audit prepared by the RIZIV Insurance Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u135	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. I cannot say that your answer is entirely unexpected, as many of these questions have been raised before. I understand that, because of the secret addenda, you cannot answer a number of questions, but I am pleased that you are making a continuous evaluation of systems such as Article 81 and that you do not hand over a blank cheque to the pharmaceutical industry.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u136	Mr. Chair, Minister, this question was tabled several months ago. On 7 August, the press reported a particular situation against an independent official pharmacist who had decided to install a relay point in a room adjacent to his office. The situation described by an independent pharmacist who is fighting to save a relay point illustrates the need to support the freedom of action and initiative essential for the sustainability of a changing and adaptable public health profession. According to the available information, the pharmacist complies with the regulatory framework governing pharmaceuticals and in particular with the Royal Decree of 21 January 2009. The AFMPS, through its inspection visit, confirmed that the independent pharmacist was in compliance with the rules in force. As you know, it is imperative that the profession of independent pharmacist be supported. The profession of pharmacist, a front-line actor, is not a profession like any other. A pharmaceutical company is not a business. The academic and professional training of the pharmacist offers an obvious added value for each patient. This situation highlights the need for support and respect for independent pharmacists. Without opposing the independents to the major groups, it is important not to restrict the freedom of action of the independents while ensuring compliance with the rules in force. Minister, could you please indicate whether there are any distortions in the ability of independent pharmacists to act on behalf of those involved in the online sale of drugs, health products and parapharmaceuticals? Do you consider it useful to amend the legal provisions in force in order to simplify this type of activity (relay point) within an official establishment? Do you think that new provisions should be introduced to cope with the changing accessibility of health products while ensuring the safety and protection of these products for the patient? Precisely, in the case of online purchases, what are the insurances on the conditions of transit, storage area or delivery? What checks are carried out on compliance with the rules for the sale of these products on the same website?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u137	Mr President, Mrs Taquin, packages transiting through a relay point or similar service do not only contain pharmaceutical or parapharmaceutical products. They relate to any kind of good. When developed by a pharmacist, this activity must be entirely independent of that of the pharmacy and must be organised outside the various premises reserved for the activities of the pharmacy. Relay point managers only handle closed parcels without knowing their contents. A relay point pharmacist is therefore not a priori able to provide specific advice associated with the delivery of a package to its recipient. I therefore do not consider it useful to amend the regulations to simplify the introduction of this activity in pharmacies. The online sale of medicinal products is an activity provided for in European regulations and is strictly regulated in Belgian legislation. In this regard, the provisions of Article 29 of the Royal Decree of 21 January 2009 on instructions for pharmacists provide for measures in terms of website content and in terms of pharmaceutical care to be provided by pharmacists who deliver products remotely. The same article also provides that the product ordered on-line is delivered, sent and delivered in accordance with the conditions required, in particular with regard to storage, so that its quality and effectiveness are safeguarded. The pharmacist is responsible for this. If a delivery service is used, it must be able to certify that the service complies with principles, guidelines and good pharmaceutical practices. Controls of the drug sales websites are carried out by the inspection services of the AFMPS. These controls include compliance with legal provisions in terms of site content, provision of appropriate pharmaceutical care and delivery arrangements.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u138	Madam Minister, it seems to me that in this particular case, the notion of a "local completely independent of the official" should be analysed in depth, despite everything. I think that some of the companies could get parcels delivered and could manage them according to the rules in force that are very strict for them while any patient or citizen can order a health product via an online sale and get the package delivered wherever he wants. I ask you to investigate more without stigmatizing online sales. The question is not here, but to put on an equal footing our pharmacists, our agents and these online sales companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u139	Merged Questions Mrs Van Peel's 55000161C and 55000662C were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u140	Madam Secretary, I'm kicking in an open door when I tell you that life with migraines is no fun. The medicine Aimovig was called promising in the treatment of migraine and tests have also shown that it represents an effective improvement for many patients. The medicine also has little or no side effects, but the disadvantage is that it is expensive, ranging from 500 to 1,000 euros on a monthly basis. It was not unjustly hoped that migraine patients helped by that medicine would receive a refund. However, the RIZIV recently confirmed that you have taken a negative decision on this issue, Madam Minister, despite the fact that there is no doubt about the functioning of the medicine and that a financially viable framework would have been developed. I therefore have the following questions, Madam Minister. Why didn't you come to a comparison with Norvartis, the producer of Aimovig? Are you prepared to make an extra effort, taking into account that Aimovig offers a significant group of 20 to 40-year-olds the opportunity to continue to perform their jobs and as such contribute to the community and thus to social security? What are your reasons for this? Finally, do you fear no class medicine, where less middle-aged patients remain in the cold, specifically in relation to this case?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u141	Minister, the drug Aimovig, which has recently been the subject of clinical tests, promises some success. I am perhaps a living example, for I have been under Aimovig for more than six months, not only for migraines, but also for a vascular algia on my face, which has kept me away from my parliamentary activities for two years. God knows, therefore, if I care about this dossier, especially in view of all the testimonies given to me about this medicine and its effectiveness (the medicine has a particularly high success rate with regard to high migraines). The announcement by the press in mid-August of the lack of agreement on the reimbursement of this medicine affected a whole community of patients who are currently being followed up with this medicine and who, for the most part, have resumed professional activities which were previously prohibited to them. I don't hide from you that this community had some hope and was shocked to learn that this medicine would no longer be reimbursed. A cost of 500 to 1,000 euros per month is suggested depending on the dose to be taken. For a household, such an amount represents a considerable part of the budget, so that it becomes strictly impossible to care for oneself and resume normal work and social life. People with this condition also suffer from a lack of social life and a withdrawal from collective life. Can you confirm that you have actually refused, and that this refusal is not due to the effectiveness of this medicine but to the fact that there was no financial arrangement with the firm? I have heard that a new application has been submitted by the pharmaceutical company and I think that this new application must be decided by the end of December. I know that the first conditions were to suffer from migraines at least four days a month and to have tried two bottom treatments that failed. I assume these people meet these conditions. Let me remind you that the cost of migraine to the community is estimated at nearly one billion a year. Even though it would be a question of amounts as announced, with the number of patients targeted for the moment - I think that currently, in the programme, 2,000 patients are being monitored for clinical testing. I'd like to have that confirmation. I would really like to hear your opinion on this issue, knowing that there have sometimes been good promises of medicine. But here, however, the decline is still relatively large. All the testimonies, especially from neurologists I frequent as part of my illness, have confirmed the high effectiveness of this medication. There is a lack of understanding of the fact that a financial arrangement cannot be found, even if it remains difficult, especially with regard to the effectiveness of this medicine. He gives a social life to the patients who live, I assure you, a real hell, almost every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u142	Mr President, Madam Minister, I won't be long. It's all been said. Your availability and that of colleagues was great today. The framework is known. Aimovig has demonstrated its effectiveness. This was recognized in particular by Dr. Paemeleire, a neurologist from the UGent who reported increased well-being for all migraine patients, who had seen the average number of migraine days increase from twenty days to six days per month. If this continues to be the case, it is a huge step forward, as it allows for the inclusion of all these people, who are suffering and who fear suffering on a daily, professional and social level in the general sense. The cost of 500 to 1,000 euros per month shows once again the inaccessibility of health care to most. This injustice of having to choose between food and care, this choice must no longer be accepted in our modern society. Today, we heard the government's refusal, which seems to be motivated by financial reasons. Minister, why has this claim not been successful? Do you confirm that a new file has been introduced? If so, how soon will you instruct him? When can a new decision be made? If a positive decision were to succeed, what would be the repayment framework? For what type of patients could this medicine be reimbursed and in what context?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u143	Mr President, I can be brief. The question is the same. Maybe we should just point out that Aimovig is produced by Novartis. We've been talking a lot about Novartis lately. The price requested is not necessarily the price that the product has actually cost to research and development. That is between 500 and 1,000 euros a month or between 6,000 and 12,000 euros a year. What was the opinion of the Committee on Medicinal Products? What was the decision based on? What was your analysis of the opinion of the Committee on Medicinal Products, which prompted you to take a negative decision? What ratio was assumed to determine that the price requested would not be proportionate, as was shown in the debate? What did you base yourself on to say this? Novartis would file a new file for Aimovig. Is that correct? How's that right?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u144	I also thank Ms. Matz for her testimony. Ma'am, you're actually an expert on the subject. In September 2018, Novartis submitted a first dossier to the Committee on Medication Medicines for Aimovig at a dose of 70 milligrams. On the basis of the evaluation carried out by the Committee on Medicinal Products, the possibility of concluding an agreement between the RIZIV and Novartis companies was examined and of temporarily including the medicinal product in the list of pharmacovigilance medicinal products. At the end of the negotiations, the working group responsible issued a negative opinion on the reimbursement of Aimovig 70 milligrams. An analysis was carried out by the CTG and showed that the ratio between costs and expected profits was not favourable, with a pronounced high cost per patient for the health insurance, but also with a number of uncertainties associated with this medicine. The uncertainties include the added value of the medicinal product within the target population proposed by the company. In March 2019, Novartis submitted a new dossier to the Commission for Refund of Medicinal Products, but this time, for the refund of Aimovig with 140 mg, double the amount. As this case is still under way, I cannot provide you with more information about this procedure, as it could jeopardize the smooth running of the procedure. The firm itself has decided not to continue the negotiations. The Committee on Medicinal Products has analysed the progress made and the objections raised. On the one hand, this was the high price and, on the other hand, doubts about the target population and its effects. The company then filed a new file. I assume that a number of parameters have been changed and that the dose has not only changed. However, I do not have access to it, because it is still under discussion. I understand that there is great hope for migraine patients, especially those who are not adequately helped by the medication they are receiving today. However, there is nothing I can do but wait for the new advice I will receive.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u145	Madam Secretary, we know that there was originally a negative opinion, as you said yourself. We only hope that, when drafting a new opinion, it will not only be seen as a pure cost, but that it will also take into account the revival of the lives of migraine patients. In this context, we must make a contribution. It is an investment, not only in the lives of those involved but also in society, in relation to the contribution of migraine patients to society.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u146	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I will not hide from you the disappointment it gives me. Even if I understand that you do not have this new opinion, I suppose you could still give a form of impulse or, in any case, mention that this is a priority for you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u147	Really not! It is an independent commission. I don't know how to intervene. I'm sorry, I can't do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u148	You're mistaken! This independent commission has so far not challenged the effectiveness of Aimovig. She said the cost of the drug was too high compared to the effects and that the target group was not the right one. I don't know what they mean by that. If this committee confirms these two criteria and declares that it does not work, can you, in your capacity as minister, once this opinion has been given, nevertheless take a positive decision? That is an essential question. If the committee gives a negative opinion on the new file, can you "stand down" on this negative opinion and still proceed with the reimbursement? I don't know the procedure well enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u149	This rarely happens, but it can be done when you have objective elements to motivate it. Most of the opinions are followed by the Minister. That was the case before me, and also with me.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u150	If objective elements allow you to override this opinion, you can do so. I understand that this is not the case law. This figure is the result of a colloquium. I'm not the one making it up. A seminar was held a year ago on migraine. It costs society about 1 billion, in general, especially through absences from work. We really need to think about how to deal with this issue. We know this medicine is promising. It isn't completely, but it allows people to recover the social life they lost. I really ask you to be careful about this case for the thousands of patients involved, who are unable to continue treatment if they are not in the clinical phase at this time. At 1,000 euros a month, they couldn't. However, this treatment does not have many side effects and produces positive effects. I ask you to be attentive to this cause, because it is very destructive for people who suffer every day. Your opinion must be well informed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u151	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. The words you use probably come from the Evaluation Commission, but I am always very shocked to hear the notion of cost-benefit ratio when it comes to the health of citizens. One in five Belgians would suffer from migraines. It's not anecdotal. Professor Palmer also spoke of a balanced compromise in financial terms as the drug was limited to a certain category of patients. The demonstration had been made of its quality and options were being taken to prevent social security. Profitability is one thing, but our role is also to invest in the quality of life of our citizens. If we need resources for social security, let us fight more effectively against the abuse of prescription and use of certain medicines and for better control of sometimes inconsiderate prices. But let us give ourselves the means to enable our citizens who have not made the choice to suffer to have a dignified life. I am convinced that you are sensitive to these issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u152	Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u153	Do we have time for one more question? Then let's move on. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 55000170 by Mrs Van Hoof 55000203C by Mrs Jadin were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u154	Madam Secretary, illegal injectable peptide preparations are very popular to quickly and easily achieve a physical beauty ideal or to strengthen certain social skills. A recent study by Sciensano shows that those preparations offered over the Internet may pose a serious risk to public health. Apart from the fact that users do not have any guarantee as to how these preparations work, the study also shows that in many cases they contain unauthorised medicinal products, are poorly dosed, contain so-called active substances which then proved not to be afterwards, even contain toxic impurities and are sometimes even infected with dangerous bacteria on the edge. So you can already see that the dangers to public health are huge. So I would have liked to hear from you the following. Does the Minister recognise the reality of this problem? What initiatives will the Minister take or has she already taken to minimise the health risk? Will the Minister develop further initiatives in the fight against online sales of these preparations? And if so, what are these initiatives? Finally, is the Minister prepared to launch an information campaign on the dangers of these preparations on the Internet?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u155	Thank you for your question, Mr Creyelman, on illegal injectable peptide preparations. This problem is, of course, the same as for the illegal medicines tout court offered via the Internet. All risks applicable to those injectable peptides are also valid for medicinal products in general. It is correct that these products may indeed pose a risk to the user. It is also the case that the problem of illicit online sales of medicines is increasing year after year. In 2018, a total of 5,702 postal consignments containing illegal medicines were seized by the FAGG inspection services. In 2012 there were only 1,072. This is therefore an increase of more than 400 % as a result of online sales. Throughout the years, the FAGG has of course developed a more performant control because more and more of these packages are being sent. They also cooperate with the customs authorities that intercepts many shipments of potentially illegal medicines and immediately warns the FAGG. Checks are carried out at the airports of Zaventem, Charleroi, Ostend and Bierset. The control of mail shipments is mainly carried out by bpost but also by a number of other major freight forwarders, such as DHL, UPS and Fedex. There is also cooperation between the FAGG and customs in the ports of Antwerp and Ghent. The FAGG also participates in the PANGEA action organised annually by Interpol and Europol, together with customs and police. These actions shall also identify and close websites offering counterfeit medicinal products. However, it is very important to note that no non-compliant medicinal product has so far been detected in the legal circuit of the pharmacies in Belgium. Belgian patients are therefore protected when they purchase their medicines in a pharmacy or when they are cared for in the hospital. The purchase of medicines via approved websites of Belgian pharmacies is also completely safe. These are orders from foreign suppliers. We can do what we want, but we must also make the citizens aware. For this reason, an information campaign on counterfeit medicines was launched in 2009: "Do not surf with your health." That campaign continues on the website of the FAGG. We have had a review of whether it should not be updated, possibly via other media. Now we work for the new campaigns via other media, the media where people go looking through Google. You ask me if the necessary measures are being taken to make an information platform available to the general public via the website to the FAGG. It is important to warn people that medicines must be guaranteed safety. Cooperation with the services concerned, such as the police and customs, is also being further developed. The most important thing is that one way or another we can make citizens aware of the great dangers and serious risks to health, such as serious infections and other things that are sometimes described. People are surprised at what can be accomplished. There is also a circuit of resources that can help to meet the beauty ideal. Are these drugs or aesthetics? The red line is injecting those products. One can apply a cream, but if one injects something, it must be a medicine. I didn't know it and I didn't use it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u156	I've also considered it, but since I have to inject it, I've just stopped. I am glad that we are largely in agreement and that we both interpret it in the same way. I have a small comment: you say that there are no illegal drugs available in pharmacies, but that would, of course, be the highlight.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u157	Beware, there are also pharmacies that deliver to us, but which are not located on our territory. The largest online pharmacy is not located on Belgian territory.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u158	Okay, I'll follow you, but I was talking about the physical pharmacies in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u159	They are online for orders, but the patient will pick up his order at the pharmacy. At certain individual pharmacists one can order online, but one still has to go physically with his prescription to the pharmacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u160	Okay, then I understand you and I take back my words. I am certainly pleased that you acknowledge it and that you want to renew the initiatives you have already taken in the past. I can keep repeating myself, but we actually agree: prevention is better than cure, so prevention and information can also solve a lot in this dossier. Thank you for your reply, Minister, and I thank the last of the Mohicans for their attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u161	Mrs Dedonder, I am sorry, but it was planned that the meeting would end at 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u162	I know, Mr. President. But I've been waiting for 2:00. I am the only one waiting and my question is the next on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u163	Mr President, I am staying here out of sportsmanship. I suggest we do another 15 minutes, if the Minister still has time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u164	It's not up to me, it's up to the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u165	Mrs Dedonder, I agree to stay to answer your question and Mr Creyelman's attached question, since you have waited a long time. Mr Creyelman had a combined question. When I meet with the committee for an hour, I have an agenda after that. It's not that I don't want to stay, that I'm going home to make fries for my family. I'm staying. I've got work to do. I'd like to do all of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u166	You mean the last question, Madam Secretary?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u167	Yes. What are you asking me, Mr. Prévot?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u168	Minister, one of my questions was added and then removed. I have done it thanks to you so that you can have the opportunity to prepare a full response with your firm. On the other hand, one of my questions (No. 55000733C) was attached to Ms. Fonck's and Mrs. Tillieux's questions on the blood donation of homosexuals. Mrs Fonck and Mrs Tillieux withdrew their questions, but the previous president agreed that I should ask mine.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u169	That means, de facto, three more questions, Madam Secretary. Two of Mr Creyelman and Mrs Dedonder joined forces. Then there is a separate question from Mr Prévot.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u170	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u171	There is a lot of flexibility at the moment! We'll proceed immediately.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u172	Mr President, Minister, more and more empty whipped cream patterns are found in public spaces, in the streets and in playgrounds. They are used to fill a balloon with gas, then breathe in the nitrous oxide and thus generate a short rush. Call it a particularly cheap form of drugs. Despite this phenomenon in the world of party drugs has been known for some time and if innocent is eliminated, the use is not harmless at all. With the increasing popularity of this party drug, there is a significant increase in the number of accidents involving injuries that are directly or indirectly due to the use of nitrous oxide. There's a danger of suffocation. I could give you the other dangers, but I'm gonna make it quick. Madam Minister, you know that in the meantime there is an initiative from our group, among others. These questions are a preliminary consideration. Do you recognise the problem of the use of nitrous oxide as a so-called party drug? How many victims have made nitrous oxide as a party drug directly and indirectly during the period 2016-2019? I know that, in reply to an oral question in plenary, you asked that you do not have this information. However, I wonder whether you now have more recent and other data. What measures have you already taken to prevent the use of nitrous oxide as a party drug? What measures are you planning to take to do that? Are you planning a further awareness of the dangers of this party drug? If yes, will you address a particular target group? I'm kind of assuming this is gonna be the case. At what time do you plan this awareness?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u173	Mr President, Madam Minister, I found a sample of nitrous oxide in Parliament's parking lot. I took the liberty of picking it up. I am not saying that it is used by parliamentarians, but it is being diverted from its first use by our young people. Normally used for medicinal purposes and in the food environment as a propellant for fresh cream, nitrous oxide is currently diverted from its primary use by our young people aged 14 to 25 and has become an over-the-counter drug for a democratic price. This gas is consumed in large quantities in baudrouch balloons and can have several negative health effects. The cocktail effect of using this gas with alcohol or other drugs is also very appealing. And that, not to mention car accidents where empty capsules are found at the rear of the vehicle. I can give you a very recent example on the part of the municipality of Tournai: a fatal accident. We found dozens of capsules like this inside the car. According to Eurotox, there is currently a real increase in hilarious gas consumption among young people. The municipalities are also deprived of this situation because there is no serious legal argument to counter this problem in the long term. Minister, my questions are as follows. In your last speech in plenary, you said that you were not in a position to deal with this problem and that we should wait for the next government. Are you going to at least entrust a new mission to the working group of the Interministerial Conference on Drugs? Can you give us the margin of manoeuvre that is possible to counter this scourge in the long term? Could awareness-raising campaigns be conducted within this framework? Have you ever had a consultation with the other competent ministers to consider a solution to this problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u174	Mr President, Mrs Dedonder, Mr Creyelman, a question was asked at the plenary session on 19 September 2019 and apparently your question, which I note has already been submitted, was not added by mistake.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u175	Mr President, Minister, it seems that the services have not checked whether there were any questions on the subject with other ministers. That's the problem. I don't blame you or the services.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u176	Mr President, Mr Creyelman, it does indeed appear that the recreational use of nitrous oxide is increasing. There is the information from the field, for example from the police but also from citizens, that more and more empty whipped cream patterns are being found here and there. These patterns also take a certain volume, namely 2,5 litres. I suppose those patterns aren't used to knock whipped cream to decorate a cake in a parking lot. The recreational and occasional use, even behind the wheel, would increase, with all the consequences. We have asked the scientific institute Sciensano if it gets any reports. It tells me that only in very rare cases through the Belgian Early Warning System on Drugs there are reports of poisoning with nitrous oxide. The Antitoxin Centre has also received few calls so far. Of course, that doesn't mean there's no problem. There is certainly a need to talk about it and to sensitise it, including in the schools of young people. The potential dangers of the use of nitrous oxide should be highlighted. I am surprised at Parliament's parking. There is plenty of opportunity to laugh, even without nitrous oxide. The increase in use must be effectively monitored. My services remain in close contact with the police and municipal administrations with regard to driving under influence, nuisances and the abandonment of waste. Some mayors, as well as the services of the federal bodies responsible for drug prevention, have already taken appropriate measures. As agreed last week in committee, I will seek the opinion of my services in the light of the new information available to me. The opinion that was given in 2015 and in which no problems were reported is no longer relevant today. The mayors tell us about problems, especially among young people. They believe that recreational drug use is an innocent phenomenon, but it is not. We therefore remain vigilant and continue our contacts with staff in the field.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u177	Madam Minister, once again I am pleased to hear that you recognise the issue and that you want to revise the opinion in the direction that it may be problematic, if not problematic. To give you just one idea, a number of Brussels street corner workers pointed out that it is used as an alternative to alcohol in the Brussels youth community, especially among Muslim young people. I should like to remind you of a number of cases, in Limburg, where some young people, under the influence of nitrous oxide, with the nitrous gas patterns still literally in the car, have entered a house. I can quote you several more instances of facts in Lokeren and other cities and municipalities in this country. So it is true that it is no longer what it was in 2015 or 2016. I would like to draw your attention to that. It is, moreover, a problem that comes from the north of France and from the south of the Netherlands. You know that we in Flanders are always a little bit late, so it is better to prevent them than to cure them by taking the necessary initiatives. I am also pleased to hear that you will launch prevention campaigns aimed specifically at young people.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u178	Madam Minister, I have not heard as clearly as you have that prevention campaigns are going to be organised, so I would ask you to confirm that. I understand that the mayor is responsible for the police and that, in so doing, he can ask for checks to be carried out. But I wish something had been done downstream. Indeed, the police will only be able to intervene when it is too late. It will only be able to see, for example, the death of two people and the presence of capsules, and the mayor will only be able to go to the place. That is not our wish. I therefore ask myself the question of what can be done in a preventive manner and I do not think that the mayor can act at this level.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u179	There is a need for a prevention campaign in schools, among young people. There must also be the capacity to impose sanctions. I wonder why night shops can have such quantities of fresh cream bottles in store. Can we believe that someone wants to eat so much fresh cream at night?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u180	I fully agree with you. A team can intervene in this case, unlike the municipality which cannot intervene in the shops.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u181	Where there is evidence of a nuisance, the mayor may prohibit certain sales. Mr. Van Quickenborne has already taken action in Courtrai. Mr. Somers also took action in Malines. Still others have taken action.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u182	The mayor may act at the time of the detection of actual nuisance.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u183	Juist.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u184	There is, of course, a limit to how far one can go.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u185	Yeah, it's gotta be proportional.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u186	I give the floor to Mr Creyelman for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u187	Madam Minister, the fact that the mayors of the cities and municipalities can take measures themselves in the event of nuisance stems from the idea behind the initiatives of, among other things, the MR and the Flemish Interest. However, if all the mayors of this country are to write their highest individual regulations, then we shall have a cacophony of measures and initiatives which are no longer clear to the public either. In this respect, I think it would be interesting to discuss two proposals in this committee shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u188	Mrs. Dedonder, would you like to add something else?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u189	I agree with my colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u190	Thank you! I'll write that down, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u191	Minister, thank you for agreeing to ask this question. Mr.President, Minister, in July 2017, our House adopted new provisions on blood donation. The text thus provided that men who had sex with other men could give their blood on condition that they had abstained from sexual intercourse for 12 months, whereas until then it had been strictly forbidden for them to give their blood. For LGBTQI+ associations, this law provided "the minimum service, without any advances for gay rights". They had therefore brought an action for annulment before the Constitutional Court in February 2018. Minister, the Constitutional Court has recently annulled section 8 of the Act of August 2017, with respect to the donation of "frozen fresh plasma" collected by apheresis and secured by quarantine. For this type of donation, the length of time for excluding male homosexuals (12 months) does not seem justified, according to the Court. As a result of this ruling, are you considering amendments to the legislation? The Court also highlights the necessary biennial evaluation planned, highlighting the temporary and evolving nature, in particular the exclusion criteria. When can this evaluation be conducted?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u192	Mr President, Mr Prévot, this is an important issue, because it concerns many people as well as the transfusion activity which is one cannot be more delicate. As part of the government's ongoing training at the federal level and as provided for in the legislation to which you refer, a memorandum has indeed been sent to the collaborators of my strategic cell and to the AFMPS on the formation of prices for labile blood products and the financing of the activities of blood transfusion establishments. This memorandum is signed by the Blood Service and the blood establishments of Mont-Godinne and Charleroi. So far, the Flemish Red Cross has not asked any specific questions. With regard to subsidies for blood products, the 1994 blood legislation provides for the following. First, the law provides that the collection of blood and blood derivatives can only take place on unpaid voluntary donors. I am in favour of not calling this principle into question. Next, the Minister responsible for Public Health sets the price at which blood and its derivatives are delivered and supplied in such a way as to exclude any profit. We must not make a profit on it, because it is something that one voluntarily gives up and for the good cause. In addition, the Act provides that, in order for the Minister to determine or adjust the price, each blood establishment must maintain a cash accounting that covers all costs associated with the collection, treatment, control, storage, delivery and delivery of blood products. Depending on the price set, INAMI provides for the reimbursement of transfusions performed in hospitals. Blood establishments have rightly indicated that the review of funding for their activities is on the table. On the one hand, they must be properly subsidized for their public interest and public health activities. Increasing costs such as indexing the wage bill, strengthening quality requirements at European and international level and conserving appropriate stocks by the population are cost-effective. This cost must be objected to. On the other hand, labile products are currently financed per transfused unit. This means that for hospitals and prescribers, there is no accountability for transfusion practice. In other words, the basic principles must be reviewed in the "revision of funding." One of the avenues is a consultation between AFMPS and institutions to sponsor an independent study of the costs of blood collection and treatment activities, as well as the cost of ongoing awareness of potential donors. In addition, INAMI could examine whether hospital transfusions can be effectively funded without the incentives associated with reimbursements per administered unit. Engaging in this process depends on a political decision. In addition, over the past five years, my collaborators have worked intensively together with large blood transfusion facilities. At the request of the Red Cross, an in-depth consultation was held between the above-mentioned institutions and AFMPS with a view to better matching the needs of the field, without compromising the safety of donors and recipients. In this context, a number of important changes have been made. For example, the age limit of 71 years for donors has been repealed. In addition, provisions on the determination of the blood group have been brought into line with the more flexible provisions of the 2002/98 Directive. This is mainly in terms of the sampling of plasma for fractionation. This change resulted in, among other things, the immediate release of new donors as plasma donors, as it is no longer necessary to conduct a test to determine the blood group on the sample taken. Secondly, a number of flexibilities were also introduced into the implementing orders. The obligation not to use blood products if certain tests are positive is imposed only in the case of repeated positive results instead of the first positive result. It was also made possible to keep erythrocyte concentrates longer, i.e. for 30 years, from -60 to -80°C, using a different method, the glycerol method, instead of 10 years at -80°C, and unlimitedly at -140° using the low glycerol method instead of -170°. The fresh human viro-inactivated plasma can be stored for 36 months instead of the initially planned period of 1 year. This makes a lot of differences because the shelf life is multiplied by 3. In addition, if insulated systems are used at 20°C, the period between sampling and freezing may not exceed 24 hours instead of the previous 18 hours. A number of other technical flexibilities have been introduced to meet the requirements of leukocyte erythrocyte concentrates, platelet concentrates and unit concentrates of leukocyte platelets. The preparation of fresh human frozen plasma, i.e. viro-inactive, from small pools that can contain up to 12 individual donations is now allowed, whereas previously, pooling was completely prohibited. Each of these amendments has been the subject of extensive consultation with the sector. The latter was invited directly to the Strategic Cell with experts and lawyers from AFMPS. With regard to your question about the recent ruling of the Constitutional Court, I would like to inform you that the AFMPS is currently examining the consequences of this judgment. I will take the initiative to present, in close consultation with the blood establishments, a draft bill to amend the Act in order to comply with the decision in question. I can send it to you in writing because it's long and complicated. We've worked a lot on it because it's as important to donors as it is to recipients.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u193	Thank you, Minister, for your long answer. She was useful. The beginning of your answer was related to Ms. Fonck's and Ms. Tillieux's questions about the cost of blood. Mine was directed at this incongruity for homosexuals to be able to give this blood, provided that they respected a period of abstinence of twelve months. I am pleased to hear that you have asked the AFMPS to review this decision and that you wish to make it evolve. It goes in the right direction; let's not adopt a middle-aged position. In particular, the criteria should be based on the donor's risk and not on the donor's sexual orientation. So I'm waiting to see.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u194	What you say has already been changed by law. But, at the time, studies were not as advanced. The one-year deadline has been imposed on us for scientific reasons. However, the law already stipulated that the evolving science and screening methods could be shortened, as has been seen in some countries. It was already provided for in the law that a revision could be introduced. But to do this, we have to start talking to the actors on the ground again.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic036x.u195	I understand that this revision will require a discussion with the actors on the ground and with the sector, but in any case I also hear your proactive policy. You want to follow the evolution of science and methods. From then on, wait and see! But I hope that we will be able to resolve this inequality, which the LGBTQI+ community has experienced with difficulty. Thank you, Madam Minister.
