ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u1	Minister, I had addressed the same question to your colleague in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments. However, in your capacity as the appropriate minister, it seemed to me essential to hear from you on this matter. As soon as yesterday, a gas alert was launched in the Federal Police building in Eupen. This only increases the urgency of this case. We must be able to move forward, even without a budgetary framework, if only administratively. Once again, the security of police officers working in the police building in Eupen was put at risk. In fact, a gas leak was discovered and required power shutdown for several weeks. In addition to the well-known dilapidation of the current police building, a new large-scale incident threatened well-being at work. Fortunately, the echoes that came to me were not only negative. It would appear that the officials of the federal and local police have reached an agreement in principle concerning the site of the future police building intended to bring the two services together. In view of the many problems observed at the current site, it is absolutely necessary to reach an agreement. The police zone Vesdre and the federal police section in Eupen have agreed to work together and to find, with the support of the five northern municipalities of the German-speaking Community, means of financing. That is why, Minister, it is appropriate that you support these efforts by recognizing the need to act without delay. We know how willingly and professionally the police are, otherwise the building in question should have been closed for a long time. Minister, I would have liked to hear from you about this proposed merger. What are you going to do to ensure the safety of the building and, of course, the officers who work there on a daily basis in the service of our safety – sometimes even at the risk of their lives?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u2	Mr President, Frau Jadin, wie Sie wissen, war ich schon oft in Eupen. Ich habe sleeps auch die Ortsstelle der Federal Police besucht und ihnen meine Würdigung klargemacht. The state of infrastructure occupied by the federal police and the local police in Eupen is indeed well known to me. I was also aware of recent events related to the problem of a gas exhaust. The process of rehousing is under way as part of a tripartite collaboration between the federal police, the Régie des Bâtiments and the local police. I also announced this when I had the opportunity to visit the infrastructure. The respective needs of future occupants, defined from a mutualization perspective, were agreed upon and validated in December 2017. They were subsequently forwarded to the Régie des Bâtiments so that the best real estate orientation could be given to the project. As we speak, the Régie des Bâtiments consolidates the real estate component of the project. The strategy for the development of the project is therefore currently the subject of discussions and exchanges of views, with a view to achieving a successful outcome. This project is therefore in no way lost sight of. I will soon remind the Régie des Bâtiments, also in direct contact with my colleague Koen Geens, that this issue is one of the priorities of the federal police as part of its master infrastructure plan. Know that you will have my full support!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u3	Minister, I wanted above all to hear that from you, namely that this matter is a priority and that it must be dealt with as such also in relation to the need for funding. I hope that this will help, and I know that you and your colleague Koen Geens will put yours in it, to bring this dossier to a successful conclusion as soon as possible. I will obviously be on the side to follow and support this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u4	Minister, as part of the sixth state reform, from 2013 onwards, the federal budget paid up to EUR 25 million to the Brussels-Capital Region to finance the language premiums paid by that Region and the local authorities to their officials. Your predecessor blocked the payment for 2015, 2016 and 2017 because his services had found that fraud was committed in a large-scale manner. After all, the federal government was allowed to finance language premiums for officials who, in the absence of a language certificate or the correct language certificate, were not entitled to them at all. There was even ghost officials. Although the Brussels institutions did not want to get over this, you decided at the beginning of this year to resume the payment of these premiums. I have the following questions, Minister. Did the Brussels Government provide correct information on officials entitled to a language premium according to Selor's certificate? In that case, were those data checked by your services to ensure that only officials who have the required certification and are still in service receive that premium? What were the findings of the checks? Can you give an overview of this per year? According to the Brussels authorities, how many officials were eligible for a language bonus? How many are these according to your services? Could you also mention the corresponding amounts in these cases? Is there any retrospective verification of whether or not the federal funds, for which they were blocked, were provided on fraudulent grounds? If they have been paid out in the past on the basis of incorrect data, will they be recovered or offset against the outstanding premiums? In view of the poor past experience of Brussels services, will your services set up a permanent and final monitoring system for the annual payment of these funds? Has the Brussels Government put forward a route for those who do not yet have a language licence? How will she solve that problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u5	Ms Pas, the law of 2001 establishing a Fund to finance the international role and the main role of Brussels, aimed at establishing a budget fund Language premiums and amending the organic law of 27 December 1990 establishing budgetary funds, stipulates that the amounts to be indexed of EUR 25 million should be distributed between various Brussels institutions since 2012 in order to finance the language premiums received by the officials of these institutions. On 2 May 2019, a royal decree will be signed by the King which provides for the payment of the language premiums paid in 2015 to the Brussels institutions which comply with the conditions laid down in the Law of 2001. The amount paid in for 2015 corresponds to the undisputed amount due, i.e. EUR 19,549,315,67. The same operation was carried out for the years 2016 and 2017 through the Royal Decree of 14 October 2019. For the two years together, this represents an amount of EUR 43,268,212,54. For the purpose of establishing the indisputable amount due, only the declarations confirmed by Selor and the employments checked at the Crossroads Bank of Social Security Enterprises were taken into account. As regards the data which have not yet been accepted and therefore have not been paid, the audit will continue in cooperation with the Brussels institutions concerned. These applications represent about 3,000 employees on 12,000 annual declarations. As regards the subsidies paid in the past in respect of the years 2011 to 2014, an audit was carried out which, although less thorough than that of the 2015 declaration, was carried out. If payment had been made for 2015 on the basis of incorrect data, this could only have led to a change in the distribution key of the legally determined amount to be distributed between the Brussels institutions. In that case, the federal government would have had to redistribute the amounts on the basis of a different distribution key and would not have been able to recover funds under the law of 10 August 2001. That is what I can answer, based on the information I have at my disposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. The question of whether the data is correct, the demand for the quality of the data concerned, is the essence. I assume that your services are setting up some sort of control system for that purpose. In March last year I asked questions about this and I was told that quality checks are still being checked. Given the past, I think it is very necessary to continue these controls. A control system should be set up to ensure that these premiums can only be paid if the correct language attestation and the required language attestation can be compared.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u7	Yeah, absolutely.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u8	Mrs Soors asks us to deal with her question later this afternoon, since she is now putting an oral question to the Committee on Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for being here to answer our questions. We read that the Home Office has prepared a far-reaching emergency plan, in case the Brexit would lead to traffic chaos. According to several people, including yourself, the Brexit may cause additional traffic congestion in the ports of Zeebrugge and Northern France and traffic guidance would be necessary. A contingency and circulation plan, which was discussed at the Council of Ministers on 20 September 2019, would list all possible scenarios and related measures. In order to avoid congestion on the Belgian motorways or traffic congestion, we are thinking of block driving, limiting the number of lanes, filtering blocks and distracting trucks from large car parks. The Emergency Planning Service of the Governor of West Flanders has worked according to the principles of the special emergency and intervention plans to consider, in addition to risk analysis, a number of pragmatic solutions. The port of Zeebrugge has installed a buffer capacity of 600 trucks in the port area itself. One of the major concerns is indeed the stationary lorries along the track. They are gold mines for human smugglers. There was therefore search for parking spaces in the spacious area. The airport of Ursel in East Flanders may seem an ideal location to catch trucks. First, can you give an overview of the possible scenario scenarios and related measures from the emergency and circulation plan, which was discussed at the Council of Ministers on 20 September 2019? Secondly, what measures were taken to avoid stationary lorries along the runway? Which parking lots are they distracted to? Thirdly, can you tell us whether the Ursel airport has been chosen? Which arguments justify this choice?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u10	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I too have a question for you about the possible Brexit Parking in Wachtebeke. We sit here together on the couches today, but also in real life we are neighbors, with Wachtebeke and Evergem. We come from the Meetjesland and still share the concern about how we could deal with the possible traffic problems in a hard Brexit. Mr De Caluwe has already introduced the subject, and I am asking my questions immediately. Was only the parking lot of Wachtebeke chosen for the entire Meetjesland? Were other sites mentioned or investigated? Our colleague referred to the site in Ursel. Was it ever on the list and was it taken off there? One wants to avoid a traffic infarct around Zeebrugge, but has it been taken into account that a traffic infarct would be created on the fairly narrow access roads to the parking of the Puyenbroeck domain, which is not directly connected to the motorways? The local population is very concerned about this. Are measures being developed to keep cycling safe for our people? What I ask of you, I might as well have asked my neighbor. Have you taken into account the local authorities in your decision? Are they involved in the decision? Do you also provide additional support for the police in that region, should there indeed be a Brexit parking?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u11	In preparation for a possible Brexit, which has now been postponed from 31 October 2019 to 2020, the National Crisis Centre organised several coordination meetings on my proposal and initiation. We intended and intended to respond to the negative consequences that would be expected from a Brexit or hard Brexit with all the relevant and involved partners that we brought to the table. The National Crisis Centre has developed a national mobility plan for motorways. The plan has been in the press and includes a number of special measures to redirect freight traffic to Great Britain in case of closure or saturation of border crossings with France, such as in Adinkerke, Rekkem, Lamain and Hensies. In addition, to the east of the E19, a general detour is planned in the south-east direction in the depths, if the listed four border crossing points "Hensies' are also closed or saturated with the French border "Hensies'. Measures have also been prepared at the important border crossings, coming from the Netherlands, the A12, the E19, the E34 and the E314, to control the supply of freight to Belgium. To present this visually, I note that it has to do with the northern and eastern borders of Belgium. In the preparation of a hard Brexit, all possible parkings for trucks, albeit primarily in West Flanders, East Flanders and Hainaut, were identified and examined for their maximum capacity and for any advantages and disadvantages. If the Brexit takes place at the deadline set by the British Prime Minister and the British Government, i.e. in the course of 2020, and depending on the situation and the needs of the moment, it can be considered which parking facilities are best suited to the reception of lorries. I always notice that people do not look at the cars. The coordination meetings led to the drawing up of various plans, following a multidisciplinary, inter-departmental and interregional approach. The plans are as follows: the emergency plans of the governors of the provinces of West Flanders, East Flanders and Hainaut, the plan "brexit traffic scenario" of the Flemish Traffic Centre, the mobility plan motorways of the federal police, the communication plan drawn up by the National Crisis Centre, the circulation plan of the port of Zeebrugge, drawn up by the Bruges police zone, the circulation plan of the port authorities of Zeebrugge and the plan of action for the port of Zeebrugge and the Brussels-Zuid railway station, drawn up by the customs authorities. As you both know, the Brexit has been postponed. I already referred to it. So there is still a chance that a Brexit with an agreement will take place and that the preparatory work, which has now been carried out, will not have to be carried out. Should there be another hard Brexit, the National Crisis Centre will organise new meetings and update all relevant documents, in cooperation with the competent partners. The necessary legal analyses will also be carried out, where appropriate, to determine the form in which the decision is to be taken to make the appropriate parking facilities available. As regards the additional support of or for local authorities, there has already been a consultation between the different services, with the aim of being prepared as much as possible for a possible hard Brexit. A consideration of police capacity will be made, as soon as concrete problems arise, according to specific scenarios. Several mechanisms of solidarity within the integrated police force allow, in the event of a justified need, to provide adequate support to the partners. To respond specifically to your question, I refer to a coincidence and an incident last week, namely a strike at the border of West Flanders with France, in the Département du Nord. It was shown that we were well prepared. All emergency scenarios were put into effect. It is not intended to make very specific infrastructure in East Flanders accessible, neither in Puyenbroeck, nor in Ursel. Is there any possibility that specific measures should be taken? Certainly, that is why, after today, I will also have a meeting with the mayors of Lochristi and Laarne to deal with the specific problems of motorway parking along the former E3, in particular those of Kalken-Laarne.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u12	Mr President, Minister, I would like to stress once again that, of course, we are not against solidarity. The Brexit will meet us all. We do not, of course, have a problem with the burden being shared fairly. It is also good that plans were worked out to be able to react quickly in the event of a hard Brexit, to deal with problems that might arise. I understand that these plans have already been tested and that this has worked out well. I would like to thank you for that and all the services that have contributed to it. Like you, I hope, and I also assume, that the contingency plan will not have to be rolled out and that there will be no hard Brexit. However, it seems that there is not much to be said about fairness in this debate. I do not know if you know where Wachtebeke is, but you have to pass many villages, where the trucks can stop and so they do not bother to drive there. So I think it's weird. There is a lot of space between West Flanders and Wachtebeke and there are very few locations selected between them. I would also like to refer to the letter sent to your services on 6 November. I understand that the consultation with the president of the police area, the mayor of Lochristi, is a response to that. I would also like to thank you for having this meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u13	Mr President, Minister, preparation is, of course, the beginning of all success. It is good that there has been thought about this hard Brexit, that there has been thought about measures that should be taken if they were to come. But in good preparation a good consultation with the people from the region really has its place. I welcome your commitment to consult with the mayors of the region. Perhaps that would have happened better in the previous preparation, then there would have been less concern among the inhabitants in those different municipalities. I repeat, we will not get there if we solve a traffic infarct with the organisation of another traffic infarct. We must ensure that our people can move safely in our region. You talked about the trucks and the passenger cars. Of course, a solution must be found for both lorries and passenger cars. Specifically these trucks lead to the Puyenbroeck domain, there are safety problems. I would like to stress that citizens' security is still a priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, you know that I pay particular attention to the events concerning transmigration and the Brexit. Stories, Koewacht, Mendonk, Sint-Kruis-Winkel and Wachtebeke I know almost as well as you do.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u15	Mr President, Minister, I was able to ask you about the potential impact in our country of the fire of 26 September in a company in Rouen, classified Seveso. You replied that you had received the relevant information. You added that the observation made by the ad hoc services was positive and that it had been assessed that the specific and emergency alert and information services had not to be activated. However, while regional information indicated that there was no contamination of ambient air and crops in our country, we were aware of the fact that the Wallonia regional services had decided to carry out new analyses of our soil in some places. From then on, and as you advised me, I would like to ask you again. Could you tell us what information civil protection services have received from federated entities in this regard? In mid-November, the Walloon Minister-President stated that the Walloon scientific institute for environmental monitoring intended to make public the results of its analyses of air, soil, plants and water, and that the regional authorities had not been asked by the French authorities in the context of their health survey. Have the civil security services received requests from the federated and French entities following the latest Walloon results or as part of the French investigation? Has your department received any information about these new Walloon initiatives or from other federated entities in our country, or even from your colleague in charge of public health?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u16	Mr President, Mrs Taquin, in your question you refer to the carrying out of analyses related to the fire in the Rouen on 26 September. I have already had the opportunity to answer many questions about this incident in this same committee. Once again, the interior services have not been informed of such sampling by any of the environmental services of the three regions. I should like to remind you that these services can carry out these soil pollution controls independently. This matter falls within their exclusive competence. I will therefore not oppose any initiative on their part. That is my answer. I know it's short, but it's the only one I can bring.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u17	It's very clear and I thank you for that. I was asking you again because you suggested me do it and I found it very interesting. I will not fail to write to the federated entity that followed the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u18	Mr President, please note that I wish to turn my questions Nos 55001411C and 55001412C into written questions. Minister, under the Highway Traffic Code, emergency services, including firefighting vehicles and ambulances, are considered priority vehicles. The Code defines them as having one or more flashing blue lights and a special audible warning device. In case of urgent mission, gyrophars and siren will be used and in case of non-emergency mission, only gyrophars can be used. It is up to the drivers of priority vehicles to assess the urgency of their mission. The latter will be exempted from compliance with certain provisions of the Road Traffic Code in the event of an urgent mission – but provided that they do not endanger other users – such as compliance with speed limits. However, it is up to me that some priority vehicles receive reports for traffic violations – including overspeed – while they are on an urgent mission. Minister, can you confirm that? What is your position in this regard, and what do you think is the explanation? Can you give me an encrypted statement of the situation? How many minutes received by priority vehicles, while on urgent missions, have been subject to a successful appeal procedure after being considered unjustified? Can you disaggregate these statistics according to the different types of priority vehicles (firefighters, ambulances, etc.)( )? Can you also disaggregate these statistics geographically?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u19	Dear colleague, the use of flashing blue lights and the special audible warning device is regulated in particular by articles 37.2 and 37.3 of the Road Traffic Code. The Road Traffic Code therefore provides for different exemptions for priority vehicles, some of which are only applicable when carrying out an urgent mission, such as overspeeding or crossing a red light, while other exemptions are not linked to this condition, such as access to school streets. Minutes are actually drawn up for drivers of priority vehicles, even if they carry out an urgent mission. I know a lot of examples. This is inevitable because, of course, these devices cannot verify whether the flashed vehicle is a priority vehicle and whether it is performing an urgent mission. With respect to your questions 2, 3 and 4, neither the federal police nor the local police have encrypted data. The recourse procedures available to rescue services are described in a circular COL16/2006 of the College of Attorneys General to the Courts of Appeal concerning the policy of finding and prosecuting drivers on priority vehicles and on mission. I'll send it to you. The purpose of this circular is to standardize policies for the detection and prosecution of road traffic offences committed by drivers on priority vehicles and on mission. It concerns the use of all priority vehicles such as ambulances, fire brigade vehicles or police vehicles that have been trivialised or not. The prosecution policy is the responsibility of my colleague, the Minister of Justice. I'm not hiding behind this answer, but it's a fact. It is therefore up to the Minister of Justice to legislate on this matter, but this poses a number of problems, certainly with regard to convictions and withdrawals of driving licences.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u20	Minister, you, like me, have put your finger on this issue. I had, in fact, referred to ambulance vehicles and firefighters' vehicles, but neither did police vehicles escape this situation. We should try to find a solution. I am going to question your colleague from Justice on this question based on the answers you provided to me this afternoon. I think some form of code agreement would be appropriate. You know how much administrative work this creates and you know how much our administrations are already dealing with fines, etc. If we could think about a system that would avoid these nasty situations, it would be a good thing. I'll see with your Justice colleague how to work on this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u21	I would just like to add that my group has a legislative proposal No. 0589 has submitted to the Committee on Mobility to meet this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u22	You can forward that. Then I'll look into it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u23	I do not know the full content of the proposal, but I am sure that it will go in the same direction as we intend. I will ask my group in the Chamber to support this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u24	I feel an alternative majority coming up.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u25	Mr President, Minister, as every year at the same time, chiefs of corps, special accountants and police advisers prepare the budget for the police areas. Police areas are also required to submit a budget for 30 November. However, the Ministerial Circular dealing with guidelines for the establishment of the police budget for use in police areas is never available on time. In fact, last year, the circular was published on 21 November in the Belgian Monitor to be available on the website on 4 December. The same is true this year. It is therefore impossible for police areas to take advantage of this circular. Minister, how do you explain these delays? What do you intend to do to make it different next year?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u26	Mr. Chair, Ms.Dedonder, the federal government has enacted regulations governing the granting and payment of the November 22, 2019 endowments. I draw your attention here that it is earlier than in previous years. Ministerial Circular PLP 59 dealing with guidelines for the preparation of the 2020 police budget for use in police areas was published on 14 November on the reference website www.besafe.be. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that the Polinfo.be website containing information is not managed by the administration. My services are therefore fully aware of the need for timely availability of data, which is why various initiatives have been taken to ensure that relevant information is communicated as soon as possible. But I will see how we can further improve the communication of information. And I invite you to turn your oral question into a written question so that I can answer you as quickly as possible in a more concrete way.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u27	Minister, there is a problem. The head of the body of the Tournaisis told me that he had received the information a few days ago. The budget is drawn up in advance, which is why we can ask ourselves what it is for. It must certainly be possible to communicate the information before the budget is drawn up. I agree to re-submit my question in writing in order to obtain a precise written answer, if that makes it possible to arrange for next year.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u28	Mr. Chair, Ms. Song being ill today, she asked that her oral questions be turned into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u29	All of Mrs. Song's questions are therefore transformed and I give the floor to Mr. Thiébaut.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u30	Minister, we have long known the difficulties in terms of the size and resources of the railway police, particularly as a result of Minister Jambon's reform in this area. To the extent that a large number of actors in the field have been able to question the mere survival of this instrument of police policy. I was therefore very surprised to learn that a real "special unit" was developed within this directorate, composed of camouflaged agents, equipped with shields and intervention equipment and which, over and above the market, would carry out "perquisition" operations, which, to my knowledge, does not fall within the competence of the railway police anyway. Moreover, it would appear that this unit was formed without any legal basis and that, as a result, not only any of the actions that it poses could not be considered legitimate, but also the men who were assigned to it – one wonders by whom – have not received any adequate training. Not to mention the questions that arise as to the origin of this unit's arsenal. What is the legal or regulatory basis for the creation of this unit? If it does not exist, how do you explain its existence? How many agents is this unit composed of? Where do they come from? What chain of command do they depend on? How were these men equipped? On what credits? Under the authority of which head? For what amount? What training did these men receive? It is assumed that these are not specific training courses for an intervention unit. If not, how and why did they have access to it if there is no legal basis for the existence of this unit, such as workers' organisations? Have you or your predecessor been aware of the existence of this unity? It seems that it has existed for two or more years, is it possible that it was in total ignorance of the officials of our integrated police?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u31	Minister, two years ago this mobile rail police protection team existed. It is said to have been created to deal, inter alia, with the terrorist threat in our country's railway stations and trains. It must be noted that this team struggles to find its place and worse, seems to take a place outside a legal framework that is confusing with the special units of the federal police. Thus, it is my responsibility that the members of this team are locked in, equipped with ballistic shields, tactical vests and special weapons. From images obtained by a RTL team, it can be seen that this group carries out a search, a type of operation that does not correspond at all to their skills. The functioning of this team has been denounced internally by the unions for many months and the people who use this type of equipment have not received any training. There is a lack of clarity about the procedure for purchasing the same equipment. Minister, what is the legal framework surrounding the missions of this special unit? What skills are required to fulfill these missions? What type of equipment is used by this team and by what official procedure has this equipment been purchased? Does the structural shortage of staff within the railway police still make it possible to carry out the basic tasks?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u32	Colleagues, I will respond in a common way to the questions asked by Mr Thiébaut and Ms Thibaut about the police officers attached to the Directorate of Railway Police under the name Mobile Protection Team (MPT) Directorate. Railway police, MPT-SPCs and TPMs are a new method of work. They are therefore not separate units and even less specialized support units. Their existence corresponds to a need for normal level police patrols that carry out their basic tasks in a more mobile manner and with appropriate equipment to better respond to the risk of unimpeded terrorist threat to GP181-specific missions and special assistance within the local police and special units of the federal police. The concept was the subject of a project led by the Public Safety Directorate (PSD) and validated by the Federal Police Steering Committee in 2016. Several directorates have shown interest, including that of the railway police. The actual establishment of the MPT teams, however, took longer than expected for the railway police as well as for the other units, in particular due to delays in the purchase of equipment. For the establishment of TPMs, this Directorate has chosen to move eight people from the Railway Police (SPC) from Brussels to central management. This change is intended to be transitional because the principle of TPM missions is to gradually extend them to all operational and trained personnel. This aspect was raised in all the meetings between the representatives of the directorates concerned and other clear directives were formulated. Finally, it should be noted that the audit on the functioning of the SSC TPM team has begun well. The General Inspection informed the Director General on 19 November. All necessary measures will therefore be taken without delay to make corrections to any anomalies found.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u33	Minister, I remain somewhat perplexed by your explanations, in particular about the possibility of having units carrying out searches, and on the legal basis of them. You're talking about a terrorist risk. But I do not think that the railway police should equip themselves as emergency units to ensure the safety of commuters. I'm having a hard time following your explanations. You also didn't explain to me how they had the equipment and how they got it. I confess that I am somewhat hungry about your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u34	Mr Thiébaut, I am prepared to provide you with further information in writing. I leave aside the position of the commuters, but in my written reply I will concentrate on the safety aspect for all SNCB networks throughout Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u35	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is therefore not a new special unit, but a new method of work. In view of what you're telling us, this one is completely redundant with what the police are doing. You tell us that this is a pilot project that will be evaluated and that an audit is under way. I ask for a moratorium on equipment and practices. We have to see where we are. I haven't heard of this pilot project. I have heard that coordination within the railway police can take place at the OCAM level. Honestly, I have the impression that there is confusion of the genres and I ask that the rail police focus on their basic missions, which are already so important today.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u36	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Chanson's 5501336C has been converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 5501345C) by Mrs Chanson and No 5501345C) by Mrs Chanson and others: Mrs Jadin's 55001528C has also been translated into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u37	Mr. Chair, Minister, I come to you because the Minister of the Environment is referring me to your jurisdiction. At a time when some think that nuclear is a solution, this reminder sting makes us aware of the danger of nuclear power, even long after an accident as serious as that of Chernobyl. Journalists have discovered that wood sold in large areas is radioactive. It probably comes from the forests surrounding the Chernobyl power plant. Minister, I do not want to make a long development, but I wanted to anticipate your response because the Minister of the Environment told us that, in any case, we were far below acceptable radioactivity limits. So I asked the journalists about it. We sail between 300 and 500 Bq/kg, which is higher than European legislation. And, in the ashes, one cannot imagine concentration because, as you know, the ashes are necessarily less heavy than the wood sold. Minister, what are the risks to our citizens and the environment? What measures have you and your administration taken to control this risk? Have you warned your European colleagues, knowing that radioactive clouds cross borders? Finally, what do you intend to do to ensure that such an incident does not happen again?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u38	Mr President, Mr Vicar, the issue of firewood containing radioactive materials has recently received some media attention. On 25 October 2019, the Federal Nuclear Control Agency took stock of the situation and recalled that controls are being carried out to ensure that a possible presence of caesium 137 in firewood is not hazardous to health and the environment. The wood mentioned in the press has been analysed and the level falls below the European regulatory limit of caesium 137 at 1 000 Bq/kg. This limit corresponds to an alert threshold from which a follow-up of the AFCN is put in place but does not correspond to a level at which it becomes dangerous to health. As part of its mission to protect the population and the environment, the PSAN will examine the situation on a case-by-case basis to assess the existence of a risk. Controls on firewood are carried out in exporting countries, at European borders and on our territory, in order to verify that the wood sold to us does not exceed this limit.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u39	Minister, I would still like to point out that, notwithstanding the existence of tolerance thresholds, there is no evidence that below these limits diseases do not appear. That is why we must remain extremely careful when handling chemical and nuclear products. Personally, I am very surprised at the possibility for Belarus to export its wood to Europe. We should therefore be able to protect ourselves as we do, for example, when there are known risks of swine fever.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u40	Mr.President, Minister, the Doel 3 tank is one of the tanks affected by a significant number of micro-cracks. These defects are regularly monitored. As such, the latest 2019 report is supposed to be fully available to the public. Nevertheless, this report is censored to the public on page 53, or on a third of the report. The AFCN stands behind the non-disclosure of the identity of the persons involved in the report. However, this censorship seems disproportionate to the extent that one could simply hide the identity of these people and publish the rest. Furthermore, the file "Microfissures" no longer appears on the AFCN website. The problem exists in Doel 3 but also in Tihange 2. Minister, why isn't the 2019 Doel 3 tank review report fully available? What does this report contain? Could Members at least have access to the entire report without having to go through the Appeals Board? Is it correct that AFCN removed the "Microfissures" file from its site? If so, why?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u41	Mr President, Mr Cogolati, AFCN has indeed received a request from a Dutch citizen to send him the full report of the follow-up inspection carried out on the Doel 3 reactor tank in July 2019. The partial report of this inspection had already been published on the AFCN site. As a reminder, the conclusions of this follow-up inspection showed that no changes were observed in the size of the hydrogen microbulls already detected in the Doel 3 reactor tank and that no new microbulls had appeared. The AFCN agreed to transmit the requested document and also published it on its website, but some parts of the report were deleted. This is in accordance with article 27, paragraph 1.1 of the Act of 5 August 2006 concerning references to persons in order to guarantee respect for privacy. Then, in accordance with Article 27, paragraph 1.7, concerning the confidentiality of commercial and industrial information, where such information is protected, in order to preserve a legitimate economic interest. The parties concerned relate to highly technical, commercial reference data, particularly on the sensors used, and other aspects. These data are not relevant to the interpretation of the inspection results. All the information necessary to understand the inspection results is available in the public part of the report. In no case has the dossier relating to fault indications in the Doel 3 and Tihange 2 reactor tanks been removed from the AFCN website. You can still find him there. The AFCN – as it has always done – has followed this file very carefully, in accordance with the instructions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u42	Minister, thank you for your answer. The question that I am going to ask you is quite natural: can Parliament have access to this document in its entirety?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u43	We will move on to your next question, which concerns Doel 4.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u44	Mr. Chairman, if the minister could simply answer the question of whether, as a parliamentarian, I can have access to this document, which is of paramount importance, because it is the security of Doel 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u45	Mr President, as this is not part of the organisation of oral questions, I have no problem in providing the most comprehensive information on all matters concerning nuclear safety in our country. Having said that, I do not know to what extent your questions are a matter of some secrecy or reluctance to publish. I'll check it out. A tip: send me a letter to indicate the specific questions you would like an answer to and I will be at your disposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u46	Thank you, Minister. It was true that it was a matter of having access to the document. You realize that parallels can be drawn between the situation in Doel 3 and the micro-cracks in Tihange 2, but I will indicate the specific questions if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u47	Minister, we move from Doel 3 to Doel 4 which, in 2014, faced not one, but three sabotages. This has already been discussed at length in plenary as well as in the press, especially on the Dutch-speaking side: the Doel 4 power station had to be stopped following a sabotage act on 5 August 2014. There were more than 56 suspects and 138 million euros of damage were recorded. However, recently, on November 4, the media revealed that the sabotage of August 2014 had been preceded by two other similar events. Why were the first two sabotage events not made public? Has an investigation been conducted into these? Have any specific measures been taken in the meantime? Why was the first two sabotages never mentioned in the questions of the previous legislature in response to the legitimate questions of parliamentarians? Were these events known to AFCN and the then Minister of the Interior? How did journalists discover these first two sabotages? Have any other sabotages occurred without being reported since the 2014 incidents? Is it possible that the people who participated in these sabotages are still able to circulate on Doel's site? What are the "special restrictions" that suspects of the 2014 sabotages are currently experiencing? More than five years after the facts, are these restrictions not detrimental to the proper functioning of the plant? How were the first two sabotages evaluated on the INES scale? Have they been transmitted to AFCN? In the interests of transparency, should the AFCN not let on its website the incidents older than a year and categorized on the INES scale?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u48	Mr Cogolati, first of all I should like to point out that I have already answered the question in plenary session on 7 November in response to questions from colleagues Tim Vandeput and Tinne Van der Straeten. I'll repeat my answers for you. The AFCN was indeed aware of the two events related to a vacuum pump that occurred on July 10 and 31, 2014. They took place in the non-nuclear area of the plant and had no impact on nuclear safety or on the safety of the population or the plant. Therefore, no INES communication or evaluation was required. During the investigation of the events of 5 August 2014 at Doel 4 the AFCN and the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office also decided to examine the past events at Doel 4. Therefore, those of July 2014 were included in the investigation file. Following the events of 5 August, a range of additional security measures were imposed in nuclear power plants. These include, first, the placement of additional cameras, deusio, changes to the badge access system and, thirdly, the broadening of the scope of the "four eyes" principle according to which workers at the plant can access certain areas only if they are accompanied by one or more colleagues, etc. Six measures have also been assessed on an ongoing basis by the PSAN over the past five years and have been adjusted if necessary. I cannot tell you any more at the moment since the judicial investigation is still under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u49	Minister, thank you. You will agree, it is worrying that AFCN is aware - if I hear your answer correctly - and that we, the poor parliamentarians, had to rely on television programs broadcast in early November. This forces me to plead for maximum transparency and for the highest level of security at Doel and Tihange sites.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u50	Questions Nos 55001411C and 55001412C by Mrs Jadin are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u51	Minister, for several weeks, there have been many testimonies about attempts to kidnap or assault women in the Brussels region. It appears that local police areas have not had to report an increase in the number of complaints in this area. Therefore, I do not know whether these elements should be regarded as information or as the basis of popular rumours. Still, at the time of social networks and contemporary means of communication, these testimonies spread rapidly and give rise to or maintain in many people a sense of insecurity that could turn into a form of collective anguish. So I think it is important to ask you about this. Did the federal police hear the same testimony? Has she investigated in any way the materiality of events related to attempts to kidnap children or has she observed a resurgence of attempts to attack women, especially large-scale car parks, in the Brussels-Capital Region in recent weeks? If so, what measures have been taken? If not, do you not think that the federal police should communicate in order to reassure the public about the veracity of these messages circulating on social networks?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u52	My administration has informed me that there has been no increase in the number of such incidents at the federal police level. As for the materiality of the facts, if any, the judicial treatment of the cases is ensured and it is this treatment which subsequently brought the answer. The problem of fake news is not specific to kidnappings. The police regularly communicate on this subject. Therefore, a specific communiation on this subject does not seem appropriate at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u53	Mr. President, Minister, Circular CP2 of 3 November 2004 to encourage the organizational development of local police focused on community policing calls for the administrative and logistical framework to be increased to 16% of the zonal staff. It averages 13.5 per cent for police areas. For the police zone Arlon/Attert/Habay/Martelange, the number of CALOGs should have increased to 17.12 CALOG. But we barely count 13 of them. In addition, the Federal Police has recently organized promotion examinations at level A for the CALOGs. Only the first 11 qualified candidates were successful. It comes to my mind that administrative staff who currently perform a level A function in the Arlon/Attert/Habay/Martelange police zone have not been received, for lack of proper order classification, i.e. in the first eleven. Mr. Minister, would it be possible to open more seats by, for example, increasing the number of patentees from 11 to 20 seats? It would be regrettable if administrative staff could not be encouraged to respond fully to the function. If I insist so much on this aspect, it is because, as you know, we are very close to Luxembourg and it is very difficult to find staff in our region.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u54	Mr President, Mr Arens, social promotion examinations are held every two years and are open to the staff of the administrative and logistical framework of the integrated police. The number of patents that may be granted at each session shall be determined prior to the completion of the tests. At the end of these tests, successful candidates and candidates ranked in useful order receive a certificate allowing them to reach a higher level by applying for mobility within the integrated police force. At the close of the last session, 23 Level A patents (11 Dutch-speaking, 11 French-speaking and 1 German) were issued in December 2018. I set the number of patents in early 2018. During the next social promotion reviews, the number of staff members of the administrative and logistical framework who will be able to access level A through social promotion is subject to change. This quota takes into account the shortage of personnel within the integrated police force in relation to the federal police reference standard and the organizational framework of the local police force.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u55	Minister, thank you for your answer. It is true that we have to wait until things are put in place. That said, you have specified the number of patents per community and you have cited the Francophone community, the Dutch-speaking community and the German-speaking community, but there is also a Luxembourg-speaking community that has not been included in this distribution. I suggest you take the latter into consideration and try to find a formula so that a CALOG member of this community can benefit from this promotion.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u56	Minister, the Arlon/Attert/Habay/Martelange police area has seen its population increase by 22.56 per cent, from 37,305 in 2000 to 45,721 in 2019. The Belfius annual study places this area in cluster 2 in the same way as the police areas of Alost, Bruges, Louvain, Brussels-Midi, Montgomery or Namur. However, federal involvement in the funding of operational personnel does not correspond to the needs and reality of the field. Indeed, the basic KUL standard, which was established more than 20 years ago and which has not been reviewed since then, provided for the employment of 95.5 persons, which is insufficient. As a result, in the face of the new security challenges associated with population growth, the police council approved on 22 January 2003 a first increase in the number of police officers to 106. This increase was made entirely from the area's own funds, i.e. through the allocations of the various municipalities. A second change in the framework took place on 5 October 2009, bringing the operational framework to 127 police officers. However, the zonal council conditioned recruitment on a pro-rata basis of federal grants and the resulting budgetary opportunities. However, the budgets of the police zone currently do not allow us to go beyond this, i.e. to fill the organizational framework for 127 police officers. Mr Minister, the police zone therefore hopes, through my intervention, to receive a favourable response from you regarding the possibility of increasing the federal funding so that it can fully fill the organic framework and thus be able to hire 127 police officers. What is your position on this request?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u57	Dear colleague, the heart of your question is the updating of the basic parameters that allow the calculation and determination of the amount that the federal state grants to the local police. Among these parameters are the KUL standard. It is true that this standard has not been updated by successive governments. However, this is an important issue that a government in day-to-day affairs cannot handle. I therefore believe that the next full-fledged government will need to update or change the funding for integrated policing if the current model is to be maintained. Therefore, with regard to your question about the Arlon-Attert-Habay-Martelange police zone, you will understand that I cannot increase its funding by the federal state because this would mean taking measures that cannot be taken by a government in day-to-day affairs. Nevertheless, I can reassure you that the proportion of federal staffing in the overall budget of the area concerned is much higher than the national average.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u58	Minister, thank you for your answers. However, I have some doubts about your last statements.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u59	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, given the difficulty of filling the inspector framework and the lack of candidates, the Arlon/Attert/Habay/Martelange Police Area decided to set up a priority recruitment process last June in collaboration with the Federal Police Personnel Directorate. The police zone thus wished to accompany the candidates by organising two days of meetings: a day of information on 22 May 2019 and a Job Day on 1 June 2019 intended primarily for candidates wishing to enter the selection process for the aforementioned police zone. This Job Day consisted of workshops informing the candidates of the selection tests as well as meetings oriented towards the various police professions within the area. Difficulties have arisen in medical selection: candidates have been distrusted in the face of lack of empathy, opacity of decisions and administrative slowness far from what we can reasonably expect from a priority recruitment procedure. More than half of the candidates declared fit prior to medical selection were declared temporarily unfit upon completion of this selection. As good was the collaboration with the staff management, as much as the cooperation with the medical staff was catastrophic, destroying almost all the efforts made by the area to fill its deficit. This situation is difficult to accept. I would like to know, Mr. Minister, how this medical selection could be improved and, in particular, make medical staff more humane and caring for candidates. Would it be possible, moreover, to give more precise reasons for refusal decisions and to speed up the selection procedure? Minister, what can be done to change these different services?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the problem has been brought to the attention of the police area concerned and to the occupational health services of the Federal Police. This issue has been the subject of an in-house explanatory exchange between the police zone and the relevant occupational doctor. The appropriate context was discussed with full knowledge and areas for improvement were identified. Within the framework of the legal provisions as clearly described on the Jobpol website, a medical examination is organised to determine whether the candidate meets the legal medical criteria in order to be able to hold a position in the police. In this case, applicants may be asked to submit medical reports of treatments prescribed by specialists. If the applicant has not submitted medical certificates or medical certificates requested in the medical criteria, he will be declared temporarily unfit and will be invited to hand them over to the service concerned as soon as possible. In this case, it is therefore the applicant himself who controls the speed of processing his application by submitting the requested documents correctly and quickly. The aim of the fast track system is to perform all legal examinations within a short period of time, including the medical examination of aptitude. This does not mean, however, that in the event of a lack of objective data to assess medical fitness, no additional questions can be asked, which obviously has an impact on the length of the process. In all cases, shortly after the medical aptitude test, candidates will be informed in writing of their results (fit, unfit, temporarily unfit). In any event, the profession of police officer requires a certain medical and physical fitness. Medical criteria are laid down in the statutes and must be strictly respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u61	Minister, thank you for your answers. I will continue to stress this aspect since at some levels administrative documents block some candidates, which is a bit of a shame.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u62	Mr Minister, in a presentation in the Committee on the Interior, the Royal Federation of Belgian Fire Brigades (FRCSPB) indicated that approximately 3,000 professional firefighters were missing on Belgian territory, which would lead to an increase in the cost of civil security of EUR 195 million. The overall cost of the relief areas in the territory is EUR 756 million. The federal share is approximately EUR 151 million. The overall cost of the relief zones would therefore be €907 million with the federal share of €346 million – a share of 38%, which still does not reach the 50-50 provided for by the law of 15 May 2007. Similarly, the federal government has not increased its allocations to the relief areas, while at the same time it continues to charge the municipalities with a series of missions. The dismemberment of civil protection is a striking example since relief zones no longer receive front-line assistance from civil protection. We find that the federal government has difficulty finding solutions to end this structural underfunding. Refinanceing civil security is essential, indeed, for the safety of our citizens. In its 2011 government statement, the federal government had already envisaged that insurance companies should be involved in the financing of relief zones. Moreover, this is done in other countries. Indeed, insurance companies are the main beneficiaries of qualitative intervention in relief areas. The FRCSPB explained in its presentation the example of France where the special tax on insurance agreements (TSCA) accounts for about 20% of the financing of the departmental fire and rescue services. The FRCSPB therefore proposes an intervention of 3 % of the insurance companies on occupational accident insurance, home insurance and vehicle insurance, which would cover the refinancing in its entirety. What do you think? Do you consider including this in the next government agreement? More broadly, do you join the FRCSPB on the figures advanced in terms of the shortage of firefighters' personnel and the financing of the overall cost of civil security reform?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u63	Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot comment on the existence of a general shortage of firefighters. It is quite possible that the operational strength of the relief zone in its personnel plan will not be reached. The inspection reports also show that, in some emergency areas, posts must be declared unavailable due to a lack of firefighters at certain times of the day, week or at certain times of the year. The situation differs from area to area and some of them are structurally understaffed. With regard to the financing of relief areas through insurance, my services have informed me that this is a track that has already been examined shortly after the adoption of the Civil Security Act of 15 May 2007. Contracts had been taken with Assuralia. Two main obstacles to these tracks were identified, namely the fact that fire insurance is not compulsory and the fact that an additional levy on this insurance led to an increase in the insurance premium for the citizen. However, political discussions had been initiated to consider funding of relief areas by the insurance sector. These did not succeed following the government's resignation in April 2010. My services are not aware of any other initiatives in this direction under the following governments. Finally, it will be up to the next government to determine what will or will not be included in the next government agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u64	Minister, thank you for your answer. I would stress the search for other sources of funding for relief services, because in the province of Luxembourg, the municipalities will be asked to increase 15%. This becomes quite unbearable for communal budgets. Every effort must be made to find other sources of funding.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u65	Minister, the budgets of the federal police, which were chronically inadequate, were strangled in the previous legislature despite the growing terrorist threat. The current euro budget of the Federal Police (staff, operations and investment) has been reduced by 105 million euros between 2012 and 2019. This effect is all the more significant if the analysis is based on appropriations expressed in constant euros (index 2019): the federal police budget has decreased by €206 million. This underfunding is the result of the decision of the Council of Ministers of 15 October 2014 to make linear savings in all departments for the period 2014 to 2019. The federal police were not spared and this resulted in a linear economy of 4% in 2015 and 2% from 2016 to 2019. Minister, what is the budget for the federal police to complete its TO3 framework? When asked in February 2019, you indicated that the federal police personnel deficit increased from 4.5% in December 2014 to almost 16% in 2018. However, the organizational framework of the federal police is 14,400 police officers and the effective police capacity (operational and Calog) arrested in May 2018 is 11,939 police officers – according to Professor Bruggeman. The delta would therefore be a shortage of 2,461 police officers out of 14,400, representing a current deficit of 17 per cent. Do you confirm these numbers?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u66	Dear colleague, the figures listed in your question were mentioned and set out in a synthesis report in February 2019 in the context of evaluation and optimisation. However, it should be added that these figures are subject to fluctuation according to the parameters used. In addition, clarification should be given as to the percentage of the linear economy applied to the federal police in 2015. The amount quoted of 4 per cent relates only to staff appropriations. This percentage is 20% for operating credits and voluntary subsidies, 28% for investment credits and 10% for grants to approved police schools. Much of these cuts have been offset by interdepartmental funding in the fight against terrorism. It is very important to add that the staff deficit you mention has been estimated on the basis of an organic sensu stricto framework of 14,400 people (operational and Calog). This organic framework corresponds to the TO3 organic table staff of 13,500 people as well as the 900 additional people outside TO in the fight against terrorism and radicalism. However, this organizational framework does not take into account a multitude of types of personnel that must be borne by the budget of Section 17 (Federal Police and Integrated Operations). For example, the new safety direction (DAB) is not part of it. This represents 1,600 staff members. Aspirants in formation are also not integrated into this organic framework. The maintenance staff, the Horeca Service and the Social Secretariat (SSGPI) are also not included.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u67	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u68	Minister, in the context of emergency management, BE-Alert allows for clearer and faster warning and information to the population directly affected by an emergency (fire, power cut, attack, natural disaster, etc.).). At the same time, the system helps to reduce the congestion of telephone lines, as was noted during the attacks. BE-alert was launched in June 2017. Is it operational? Since then, it has undergone technological change. In fact, necessary technical integrations have been carried out in order for example to automate the procedure of activation of the alert by local SMS or to support the partners in their process. Among the necessary technical adaptations, does the system allow for the dissemination of all alert messages via external channels (such as websites or apps for smart phones) in real emergency situations? How many end-users are there at present? The 2019 NPG informed us that 435 municipalities and cities have joined and 447,792 data are now encoded. Are these figures correct, minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u69	Mr Arens, the public alert platform, BE-Alert, was launched in June 2017. Since then, the platform has been operational. Registered municipalities may send alert messages both on the basis of the addresses of registered citizens and on the basis of their actual presence in a specific risk area. Since the launch, BE-Alert has constantly evolved at the technological level in order to reach more citizens quickly and efficiently. Indeed, the technology to warn citizens on the basis of their presence in a given area has been further simplified and automated in the platform. In addition, the technology for automatically posting alert messages on the website and in external partner applications is being finalized. This functionality can then, in accordance with the schedule, be offered to BE-Alert users from March 2020 onwards. In addition, ongoing efforts are being made at all skill levels to increase enrolment. At present, 467 communes, i.e. 80% of all municipalities, are registered in BE-Alert. More than 681,000 citizens have already registered for BE-Alert.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u70	I thank the minister for his response. I assure you, Minister, that the application is really working very well, since since the filing of my question, I have had to deal with a situation where I have actually been contacted by BE-Alert and that is effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u71	Mr President, Minister, in his report on the follow-up to the Attentats Committee's recommendations, Professor Bruggeman recommends continuing to use ASTRID as a multidisciplinary communication platform for rescue services. However, we note that two years after the attacks, on 17 May 2018, the same technical communication problems arose again in the Mawda case. There were radio problems between the police in Namur province and Mons, which prevented them from communicating with each other. This sad episode shows us that it is still impossible for relief and security services to communicate and collaborate across the provincial borders. How is it possible to get there? How can this be addressed? How can 112 plants be co-operative across provincial boundaries? The report also recommends strengthening the capacity of ASTRID radio, making devices more user-friendly, structuring communication groups differently, organising more training for users and continuing to search for digital alternatives. Minister, how do you intend to implement these recommendations?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u72	Mr. Chair, Mr. Minister, the federal government and ASTRID, each within its respective jurisdictions, took the recommendations of the Attentats Commission very seriously. It is essential to distinguish, on the one hand, the technical operation of the network which is the responsibility of ASTRID and, on the other hand, the operational use by the rescue and security services. One of the aims of the ongoing judicial investigation is to understand why police officers were unable to communicate with each other on the day of the chase. ASTRID is awaiting the results of this investigation. As a technical provider, ASTRID does not intervene in operational aspects and is not in a position to know the nature of the communications. The management of the groups and possible improvements are the responsibility of the relief and security services. For its part, the federal police have taken the following steps. First, the usual communication groups have been anonymized to always be in correspondence with the constituency assigned to them and the communications groups used more exceptionally, in the event of a large-scale event or crisis, have been renamed so as to leave no doubt about their use. Second, the distribution of radio communication groups has been made more intuitive. Third, an international directory has been added to take account of new interconnections with the Netherlands and Germany. Fourthly, circular GPI 48, which provides for the continued training of operational members of the integrated police force in the area of violence control, has been adapted. A component on radio manipulation has been introduced. Fifth, the provision of radio course services has been strengthened. A radio e-training tool acquired by ASTRID has been operationalised and new educational or awareness-raising materials have been disseminated while maintaining existing media. The report also recommends strengthening the capacity of ASTRID radio. ASTRID's 2016-2020 business plan foresees €123.5 million in investments in the network: €21 million will be allocated to improve quality and quantity; €38.5 million will be allocated to extend radio coverage and new services; €64 million will be allocated for reliability and continuity. The implementation of the investment plan continues unabated. The renewal of the radio network, the dispatching infrastructure and the development of new services bring an undeniable added value in support of the players in the relief and security services. Work on the renewal of the radio network infrastructure has been completed. ASTRID has equipped its 600 antennas and relays with new technologies. This will allow for more efficient communications, better reach and a higher number of communications. Capacity building on several relay antennas in the Brussels Region was finalized in November 2016. The renewal of the network's infrastructure has also been accompanied by structural capacity building. Since May 2018, ASTRID has had a real-time monitoring tool to monitor the capacity of the radio network so that it can monitor the situation on the network closely. This tool activates the additional capacity installed in the network. At the beginning of 2018, ASTRID launched a new compact vehicle with satellite technology and accredited as a priority vehicle with a blue light, allowing a faster arrival to the scene for a more effective temporary reinforcement of radio coverage and the capacity at the site of an incident. There are several types of radio depending on the use. However, a new type of device can only be used on the ASTRID network once validated by ASTRID itself. Currently, the following brands represent the majority of TETRA radios used on the ASTRID network. For the recommendation to organize more training for users, the attacks highlighted the need for in-depth knowledge of the use of ASTRID radios. In addition to the initiatives taken by the relief and security services themselves, ASTRID has put in place a self-learning software. This new computer-assisted learning system can be used remotely by 60,000 individual users, in the case of training and training in radio equipment and the proper use of the various communication groups. Finally, regarding the recommendation to pursue the search for digital solutions, ASTRID is preparing for the future. For the period 2025-2030, the TETRA network will gradually shift to the GSM 5G networks. The LT standard offers more bandwidth and thus more possibilities, especially for video. Moreover, ASTRID has been a pioneer in Europe by developing the Blue Light Mobile card, a priority voice communication offer and high-speed data that can transit through any of the three major Belgian mobile networks.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u73	Minister, thank you for your very detailed answer. I welcome the scale of human and technical investment to improve the efficiency of this network.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u74	Minister, on November 8, the Director General of the Judicial Police outlined his priorities as part of his new mandate. It was able to point out two key elements: the fight against corruption and the fight against organised crime. According to him, 800 investigators are missing from the judicial police out of the 4,800 members of the Federal Judicial Police. The Director General of the PJ states that the federal police supply has declined by $200 million over the last five years, while there would be a lack of investment in vehicles for its services and buildings. The fight against corruption is of course essential and must, unfortunately, always be strengthened. It is essential to guarantee our rule of law. Even today, we were able to learn of a new large-scale Europol operation in which the Belgian services participated. We must pay tribute to the work of our services. I am doing this here, because this operation, which took place from September to November, has identified nearly 4,000 financial mules and 400 recruiters, leading to 228 arrests, especially in Europe, but also in the United States and Ukraine. We must of course continue to act in this direction; within our country and in the framework of broad collaborations such as this fifth European anti-money laundering operation. Minister, what is the evolution of the framework and the personnel actually Office Central for the Repression of Corruption (OCRC) over the last five years? How much investment has been made in the equipment and infrastructure of the judicial police over the last five years? What specific objectives and actions have been identified in the Director General's new mandate? Has an assessment of personnel and equipment needs been carried out within the framework of these objectives?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u75	Dear colleague Taquin, my answer has been prepared for both questions. I will therefore give you the full answer. With regard to the question of personnel appropriations, recruitments for these appropriations have been monitored on an ongoing basis in accordance with my directives and the priorities set by the Federal Police Steering Committee. Funding is available for one-for-one individual recruitment of a member of the federal police operational framework. It was important to properly assess the operational needs of the administrative and/or judicial police, as well as of support, and to properly establish staff. In addition, the reality of recruitment is that the Dutch-speaking labour market is more difficult. Let me turn to the question of the distinction between generic recruitment and the ongoing reform. It is clear that between selection on the one hand and recruitment on the other hand, opportunities are offered to recruit specialist profiles with a suitable course. The contribution of the Federal Judicial Police to the fight against corruption is mainly reflected in investigations carried out within the Central Office for the Suppression of Corruption. Recent international assessments have not identified any specific problems in this regard. The Central Office for the Suppression of Corruption is one of the five central services of the Federal Judicial Police, which have been validated in their operational investigative missions by a recent amendment, dated June 2019, of section 102 of the Integrated Police Act. The Director General of the Criminal Investigation Police has taken this amendment to conduct an ongoing reflection, not only on the capacity available, but also on the profiles required in the future, the internal working processes and the management of investigations, in order to further improve the quality of the work of these services. Mrs Taquin, I turn to the evolution of capacity within the Office over the last five years. The reference months are still October. The answers are as follows. And 2015, 54. And 2016, 54. And 2017, 50. In 2018, 50 and 2019, 55. The organic table provides 64 full-time jobs. During the period 2016-2019, we see an average of 26 million euros committed annually to the Federal Judicial Police, excluding staff credits. The figures range from 20 million in 2015 to 28.5 million in 2018, to cover investments and operations. The investment-to-operation ratio is inverse from year to year. The investment budget increased from 56% in 2016 to 43% in 2019. As far as infrastructure investments are concerned, I refer you to the competence of my colleague Mr Geens, responsible for the Régie des Bâtiments. The environment in which the judicial police exercise their powers and prerogatives is increasingly dynamic and complex. For this reason, the Director General AI has identified priority areas for the Federal Judicial Police. The annual minimum investment and operating requirements are currently estimated – with unchanged policy – at EUR 30 million. In view of this budgetary situation, the next government can make choices, either in the short term: to transfer appropriations in personnel to investment and operating appropriations; or in the medium term: to refinance the federal judicial police and, by extension, the federal police in its entirety.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u76	Minister, thank you for your answer. The quality of the work of the judicial police is undoubtedly to be stressed and welcomed. It is always good to remember its effectiveness. You will allow me to return to you later, because within the judicial police, as well as within the local and federal police, there is a problem of recruitment. I have no doubt that there are many reasons for this. It therefore seems interesting to me to address this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u77	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mrs Chanson's 55001514C and 55001515C are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u78	Minister, I am always careful when I read messages in the media. Hence my cautious introductory remarks. Reportedly, you received a strike notice on 12 November. With this announcement, the 1 100 members of the road police can take strike action between 29 November and 2 January next year. It's all about an incident in June at a highway park in Lamain near Tournai in the province of Hainaut. A patrol from the road police was called in for a cargo theft. On the spot, the two policemen were told by a trucker that the thieves were still in the parking lot. They had fled on foot and left two stolen cars in the parking lot. Not much later the patrol stood face to face with the suspects. According to the police, the thieves wanted their stolen cars back and they were told by the gang that they had to leave. Eventually, the perpetrators turned against the police. One of the two inspectors released a warning shot in the air because, according to the inspector, they continued to come closer and closer. The Director-General of the General Executive of the Administrative Police started a disciplinary procedure against the police inspector, despite the shot the policeman fired according to the internal investigation was legitimate. Yet the inspector received a warning in his personnel file because he shot in the air and not in the ground. Mr. Secretary, are the facts cited as they were made public? Why didn't the Director-General follow the decision of the internal investigation that the shot fired was justified? Is there always a warning in a personnel file when a warning shot is fired into the air and not into the ground? Do such disciplinary sanctions not involve the risk that police officers will be more exposed to acts of violence and therefore even more vulnerable? Do you understand the attitude of the police unions? Has the trade unions been consulted on this matter? What was the outcome of this consultation, if any?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u79	The Article 28 of the Police Disciplinary Act of 13 May 1999 does not allow me to disclose or disclose the factual data on the file. However, I have been in contact with the Commissioner-General of the Federal Police and the syndicate that submitted the strike announcement on this matter. The disciplinary authority concerned has decided to withdraw the individually proposed warning. Instructions have been given to prepare clear teachings to inform our policemen better and more fully.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u80	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. This proves that short answers are the best answers. I'd like to add something else. We have already asked current questions about this in the plenum. In practical terms, a resolution was adopted last week in plenary in order to better protect policemen. So I can only be pleased that the warning will disappear from the file and that in the future there may be better protection for our police and security services.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u81	I was present in the Chamber during the discussion of that resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u82	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dierick's 55001573C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u83	Minister, it has been proven for many years that some irradiated fuel pencils are leaking to Tihange and Doel. The following questions therefore arise. How many fuel crayons are leaking in Tihange and Doel? What percentage of pens leaking from the total number of spent fuel crayons discharged? What is the evolution of these leaks? Are they now more numerous than 10, 20 or 30 years ago? What are the reasons for these leaks and damage to these irradiated fuel-assembly pencils? What are the precise locations of these assembly pencils? In dry or wet storage? Which pools in Tihange and which units in Doel are affected by these leaks? How and by what process are these leaks treated? Has all of these leaks ever been treated? If not, how many leaks have already been treated on all damaged pencils? What are the costs of handling these damaged fuel pencils in Tihange and Doel? Are there any cost differences in the management of these leaking pencils? And if so, why? What is the opinion of the National Organization for Radioactive Waste and Fortified Fissile Material (ONDRAF) and the Federal Nuclear Control Agency (AFCN) on the handling of these leaking pencils? Can you assure us that the integrity of these pencils can be preserved in the future throughout the dry storage period, both in Doel and Tihange?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u84	Mr Cogolati, AFCN has informed me that there are crayons of unsealed fuels in most nuclear reactor cores around the world. In the case of Doel and Tihange, the question is obviously known and followed. An inventory has been made and is continually updated of the number of unsealed pencils in each reactor and in each reactor deactivation pool. For the sake of clarity, it is important to note that the storage of these unsealed pencils in swimming pools is carried out in safe conditions and that there is no risk of leakage or discharge into the environment. It is not permitted by ENGIE Electrabel's procedures to remove unsealed pencils from deactivation pools. Therefore, it cannot be found in the intermediate storage pools of spent fuel in Tihange or in the dry storage building in Doel. Six unsealed crayons will also not be able to be stored in the new buildings in Doel and Tihange for the storage of spent fuel. The complete inventory contains 215 unsealed pencils in the deactivation pools of the seven Belgian units, representing more than 0.01% of the crayons stored. This inventory shall be provided to the Safety Authority on an annual basis in full transparency. The number of unsealed crayons has been significantly reduced in recent years compared to previous years due to improvements in the design of combustible components. ENGIE Electrabel has initiated a program to repair unsealed pencils in order to make them leakproof with a view to the evacuation of the swimming pools. To synthesize, these repairs are carried out by encapsulating damaged fuel pencil in the pools where these pencils are located. This operation is carried out under water and limits as much as possible the handling of these unsealed pencils. The preparation of these projects is the subject of an important preparation and a review and follow-up by the Safety Authority. After repair, the structural integrity of the pencils is completely restored, so that there is no specific fear of these pencils. Finally, the AFCN does not have any information on the costs of these operations.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u85	Minister, I must say that I am impressed by your answer: 215 crayons of spent fuel and therefore highly radioactive which leak into seven units. It's still a high number. This requires treatment and repair. That's what I'm worried about, really. I can understand that Electrabel wants to keep the repair costs secret. But in a few years, these spent fuels will become potentially nuclear waste. The Belgian State is responsible for repairing these leaks. It's about 215 pencils. For me, one question remains: how can these pencils be repaired? If I hear your answer correctly, six pencils could not be stored, or in any case moved from a wet environment in Tihange to a dry storage environment. I think it's pretty disturbing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u86	Minister, the recurring copper thefts in this country are particularly problematic for our rail traffic. In 2018, their number has tripled. Not only does this cost a lot of money to the railways, but it also causes a lot of delays on the rail network. The thieves sell their stolen goods easily in our neighboring countries, where there is no cash ban or identification obligation when selling copper. The ban on cash in Belgium can only work if it applies throughout Europe or at least in our neighbouring countries and if there is sufficient control of illegal scrap merchants operating alongside the registered bona fide scrap trade. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, are there any figures on the buyer thefts in Belgium? How much? Where? What value? Secondly, are there any negotiations or agreements with neighbouring countries to introduce a similar system of cash bans and identification requirements? Thirdly, is there another action plan ready to tackle the problem of the copper thefts in this country?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u87	Mrs Dewulf, the figures I give you relate only to the copper thefts to the detriment of Infrabel. However, other individuals and companies may have been the victims of copper and metal thefts. The number of copper thefts for 2018 was 361. In the first eight months of 2019 there were 202. In 2018, most of the thefts took place in the districts of Liège for 26%, Hainaut, and in particular the territory of Charleroi for 17% and Brussels for 13%. In the first eight months of 2019 these took place mainly in the arrondissements of Hainaut, again in the territory of Charleroi at 33 %, Liège at 15 % and Namur at 10 %. The damage caused to Infrabel amounted to 4.14 million euros for 2018, which is only the cost of replacing the cables and repair works themselves and not the cost of the delays. For 2019 these figures are not yet known to the police. Each Member State has the right to transpose the European Directives on Laundering into national law in the manner it considers appropriate. In Belgium, the cash ban is imposed by the Preventive Money Laundering Act of 18 September 2017. The Netherlands does not have a similar arrangement and there are no negotiations on this with our neighbouring countries. I do not think there is a need for a new action plan. The actors are well interspersed and regularly consult. Infrabel takes preventive measures. The Securail Security Service conducts the analyses every week, after which the monitoring actions are planned. The Federal Police, in particular the Railway Police Directorate, works in close consultation with these two partners. Actions shall also be organised on a regular basis, subject to such cooperation, in cooperation with the police forces. The local detective services or the federal judicial police are responsible for these investigations.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u88	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I hope that this will be followed up properly, including at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u89	Mr President, Minister, I am asking you today about police violence. My question was tabled last week and I am deeply concerned about the events of the last two days concerning new alleged cases of police violence. As you know, it has been months since these police violences were reported by various organizations (Médecins du monde, Myria, Comité P) in which worrying facts are mentioned. For the past few months, I have been going to a closed centre for migrants to gather testimonies. I'm not a judge, I'm not a doctor. My work is that of a parliamentarian who has the right to observe detention centres, but I share the concern that several reports have noted. These include beatings, arm keys, breathing obstructions that remind us of the past, racist insults and humiliations. Mr Minister, I must refer here to the events of the day before yesterday, when we even came to expel a MSF worker who has obviously also been subjected to violence by the police responsible for repatriations. Have you learned of these different charges? Will an investigation be conducted? According to a report by the General Inspection Agency published in 2018, 102 checks were carried out in 2017 out of a total of 1,475 attempts at forced returns. What are the modalities of these controls? Do you consider them sufficient? According to a report by Myria, there is a "good practice guide" that guides police techniques during repatriations. This report is not public. Why isn't he? As a parliamentarian, is it possible to obtain it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u90	Mr President, Mr Minister, this is an extremely important subject which has once again caused a great deal of ink to flow this week. We are already two parliamentarians to question you, which does not happen frequently. Over the past few weeks, testimony and complaints have flowed against the federal police in the way it behaves against rejected asylum-seekers who have been forcibly returned. We do not dwell here on facts which are denounced by the main interested parties or by the associations, because you would reply to me that these are cases in which legal proceedings are ongoing. But let me remind you that the accompanying missions have been the subject of very critical reports from the AIG (Agency of the General Inspectorate of Police)! There are documents showing considerable problems. It is our responsibility that these recommendations have not yet been implemented at this stage, which seems to be confirmed by the complaints to which I refer here. There have been reports in the past. The General Police Inspectorate has said and recalled this and the complaints continue. It's not right. Minister, what concrete follow-up has been given to this report? What disciplinary measures, if any, are taken against the perpetrators? In concrete terms, what measures have been taken to stop the ill-treatment regularly reported during forced returns?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u91	Mr Kir, I am obviously as much in favour of respecting the rules as I am of the human person. The critical report you're referring to dates back to January 2019. At the time of the publication of this report in the press, the General Inspectorate of the Federal and Local Police had already produced a new report showing that a new dynamic had been found and that rapid progress was being made. Since then, steps have been taken to speed up the implementation of the action points requested. Dear colleague, Mr. Chairman, as far as I am aware, three complaints have been filed for the time being. Investigations are under way to determine the veracity of recent allegations in the media. A complaint was filed with the Halle-Vilvoorde Public Prosecutor's Office. It is the subject of an investigation by Committee P. The other two were filed with, in copy, the IGA. They will also be the subject of an internal investigation by the federal police. As a reminder, the AIG has been officially designated by the government to ensure the proper and humane monitoring of the forced return of foreigners who have exhausted all legal remedies. In this case, its officers may make announced or unannounced checks. They can also accompany the escort device to the destination. This accompaniment took place ex officio as part of a specialized flight. Each inspection shall also be the subject of a detailed report. If they find violations, IGA officers automatically cease the mission and draw up a report. Each year, the AIG sends a report to the Ministries of the Interior and Justice, as well as to the State Secretariat for Asylum and Migration, the P Committee, the Commissioner General of the Federal Police and the Director General of the Administrative Police. Staff members must undergo selection and certified training. In addition, escorts are assessed annually to ensure that they still meet the departure criteria. The whole process is described in a departmental directive. It can thus be seen that the structural controls of general inspection constitute a complementary measure, in addition to an already very strict framework. Finally, Mr. Moutquin, the good practice guide to which you refer is probably the manual that feeds the very comprehensive and extensive training of police officers responsible for removals. For security reasons, these directives are not public. This brings me to the incident that occurred on Monday, December 2, during an attempt to remove a Somali on a flight from Ethiopian Airlines. Due to the opposition of two passengers and the person concerned, the police decided not to proceed with the removal on that day. The officer of the Aliens Office present and the Inspectorate General confirm that the police officers acted professionally and without unnecessary constraints. The General Inspectorate even speaks of a resistance organized and orchestrated by the two passengers. The latter were administratively arrested by the local police.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u92	Minister, let me be surprised! You mentioned a report, but you also talked about new dynamics and rapid progress, following the events that occurred two days ago. You also mentioned the professionalism of the police. But do you have the images? I'm not an investigator, but they're still clear. You're talking about professionalism, but it's still pretty amazing to see that a MSF employee was pulled by the hair. You're talking about repatriation control. There are 15 per cent of the cases of controlled repatriations. In addition, there are several forms of controls. There is control to the airport, control to the destination and control to the port of call. There is therefore no systematic monitoring of all repatriations. I also hear my colleague, Mr Kir. I remain in my role as a parliamentarian. When we talk about ongoing legal proceedings that we should not comment on, let me tell you that I am quite sceptical about the correctness of this action, knowing that the main witness of the latter is subject to expulsion proceedings. I will continue to ask you about this issue, including the manual you are referring to. It is a matter of security, but it is also a matter of parliamentary control to have access to such documents. I will also ask your colleague Maggie De Block about other aspects of this repatriation policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u93	I will agree in the same direction, minister. We should be a little more careful. Legal proceedings are under way. When there are findings of injury, witnesses, etc., justice must do its job. With regard to professionalism, I would say that we must keep a certain distance. I myself was the victim of allegations. It was said that I had committed an act of rebellion on a plane at the time of an attempt to repatriate. Two ministers of the former government filed a complaint against me in court, saying that I had acted in rebellion, on the basis of a police report. In the ensuing action, the persons on the aircraft testified that this was not the case. We must be careful when reading the facts that are reported in the press (i.e., the press does not do its job). When there are images or findings of injury, you have to take things very seriously. I am pleased that there are procedures, an interim report from the Inspectorate General of the Federal Police and the local police (AIG). However, we must be concerned because, after this interim report, the problems are starting again. Clearly, there is a structural problem with repatriation. I'd be more careful if I were you. We will ask you again when there are new elements in the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u94	Mr President, Minister, on Thursday 21 November and Friday 22 November, an exercise to test the emergency procedures at the Tihange power plant was carried out by ENGIE Electrabel. Exercise simulated an electrical problem outside the power plant that could lead to failures in cooling systems. The results of such tests are interesting, both to enable ENGIE Electrabel to improve its emergency procedures and to better identify the real risks to the public in the event of a major incident. I would therefore like to ask you about the conclusions of these tests, which were carried out a little more than a week ago. What were the shortcomings highlighted in previous tests? How was the simulation designed and evaluated? How often do these tests take place? Has ENGIE Electrabel taken into account good practice in other states? What was the role of AFCN in this simulation? Which institutions were able to participate in the test? Is a report including the results of the simulation already available or will it be made public in the near future or at least transmitted to parliamentarians? What was the ability of ENGIE Electrabel to limit the significance of the incident? How were the plant staff affected? What is the measured impact on the population and the environment? Finally, it was reported that citizens did not suffer any nuisance during this test. That makes sense. By being elected local of the city of Huy, where the Tihange nuclear site is located, I wonder if a life-size test could not be organised soon, involving the residents of the plant to assess the actual ability to practice an evacuation of a contaminated perimeter. I think that would be interesting. I can assure you that in Huy, absolutely no one knows the evacuation areas that concern them. I am very interested in this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u95	Mr President, neither AFCN nor Bel V were involved in this exercise. However, as part of the follow-up to the post-Fukushima resistance tests, AFCN and Bel V observers visited the site to assess the progress of the exercise in the various crisis areas. The actors in the exercise were only Electrabel staff and subcontractors for crisis management. The exercise planned to play successive successions between four and five Tihange shift teams. In view of their complexity, the choice of objectives during the organisation of the exercises is made by a set of partners which must take into account a range of constraints and capacities available to test these aspects, including the modalities for the participation of the population. Public participation has been an important focus for several years in the organization of nuclear exercises. The latter are already regularly involved in the fictitious alert by BE-Alert in particular. For an internal exercise, the scenario is normally mainly developed by the operator himself. In this particular case, the Safety Authority had been notified and consulted to define the new aspects of crisis management to be tested in practice. The good practices of other States were taken into account when defining and carrying out the actions once defined, following the post-Fukushima resistance test. This type of exercise considers an extremely high and unlikely number of series failures of equipment, in order to bring the situation to the brink of disaster very quickly. In this case, a radioactive release to the outside was immediately considered to involve teams in the use of individual protective means, dressing and undressing after the crossing of contaminated areas. A pseudo-impact on the environment and the population was therefore an input to the exercise. During this exercise, the crisis teams took all the appropriate decisions and managed the situation in order to stop this radioactive release and, above all, to avoid the worsening of the simulated incident, towards a nuclear disaster. The Agency plans to synthesize the lessons of this exercise, in conjunction with post-Fukushima resistance tests, in its annual report on the progress of post-Fukushima improvements.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u96	Minister, thank you for that answer. Let me remind you that it would be wise to organise a full-scale test. I am really surprised that in Belgium, we have never organised this kind of test. I live right in front of the Tihange power plant. I think receiving a text message from BE-Alert from the Crisis Centre is interesting to test the system, but we could go further. One could really test residents and citizens with such a test simulating a radioactive release.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u97	Minister, on 21 October De Standaard reported that there would be problems with Infotheek, a platform for the exchange of information for the police. According to the Control Body on Police Information, Info Library would not be legal. Until a recent legislative amendment, a police zone was allowed to search only its own data. Although the problem existed since 2014 and the COC repeatedly pointed out to the government, the problem continued to exist for years. In April, a law was passed to solve the problem. Information library can now be used provided that binding directives are taken into account by the Ministers of the Interior and Justice. According to De Standaard, these guidelines would still not exist today, so it is highly unclear whether the problems of information sharing via Infotheek have been solved today. I assume that you agree with me that good information is essential, but of course it must be done in accordance with the rules. First of all, since when was the government aware of the legal problems with Infotheek? What steps were taken then? How come the law wasn't changed until April? Second, in 2016, the COC would have raised the alarm for the first time. What was the COC's vision? Did the government share that vision? Why didn't the government act immediately? Thirdly, according to De Standaard, the binding guidelines that allow the use of Infotheek would not yet be there. Is that right and if so, what is the reason for that? By what time will these directives be available? What are the consequences of the absence of these directives? Fourthly, the COC also expressed its concern about the use of unvalidated information. There would be no clear rules about that. Do those rules exist? If so, what are the rules? If not, by when do you intend to develop it? How do you want to avoid errors caused by the use of unvalidated information? Finally, the Committee of Inquiry on Attacks pointed out the need for better police information systems. What steps have you taken to do that? How were they evaluated? What steps do you want to take?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u98	The contacts between the police and my predecessor on Infotheek date back to the summer of 2016. In the same year, the federal police proposed, in view of the legal constraints, that the necessary legal basis should be provided. It quickly became clear that an amendment to the law on the police officer offered the most appropriate solution. The integrated police worked out that solution. In 2016, the European texts on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data were published. It became clear that as a result, national legislation, in particular the former privacy law, had to be amended and that this would also have an impact on the law on the police officer. The impact on Infotheek, but also on other applications, such as Focus and I+ Belgium, was addressed through necessary changes to the law on the police office in order to comply with the new standards for the protection of personal data. Since the work on Infotheek had to be carried out consecutively, the law on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data was first amended. The law on the police office was subsequently amended in 2019. That law wasn't just changed for Info Library. This was also necessary for the project Focus, the Justice I+ Belgium, the national ANPR database and the future national IT programme iPolice, you know. In future, the police should be able to work in a flexible and modern way when processing data in the context of their tasks. The control body on the police information, the COC, was consulted by the integrated police at the beginning of 2016 and delivered its report in April. In the legal analysis, the COC pointed to the distinction to be made between validated and non-validated information and to the determination of the profiles for access to data, ventilation and data retention, training and security, and the risks of the contacts to be made to modify the legal basis of Infotheek or similar applications. The comments of the COC were taken into account. The integrated police continued the work in this sense to find a solution for Infotheek and to enable the further development of the law on police duties, not just for Infotheek, but for all data processing operations using the same modalities. So there is now a legal basis and the ministerial draft directive will soon be completed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u99	Thank you, Minister, for the extensive history. I am pleased to hear that you are aware of the work on information management. Some work has already been done, but I heard you say that it has not yet been completed. You said that the directives are currently being finalised. That seems crucial to me, because everyone agrees that there is an absolute need for information exchange. I find it only problematic that the police services are now faced with a practical dilemma because of the lack of these directives. If there is an attack tomorrow and information appears to have been made available to police forces, while the pieces of the puzzle were not put together, then of course there will be a very strong response. If they do share information today in the absence of binding directives, they are still in a grey zone. So we really need to get the police out of this dilemma. I look forward to the completion of these guidelines, and I will continue to follow them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u100	We will certainly follow that together and they can be the subject of a discussion at a forthcoming committee meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u101	Minister, in October De Tijd wrote that in the police database 2.848 people are linked to right-wing extremist organisations. Those people would have been on the list of police forces on the proposal of the federal police, the OCAD and the other intelligence and security services. According to the OCAD, the right-wing extremist belief in our country is also on the rise and is even becoming mainstream. Unfortunately, this is also apparent from the events of the last few weeks. There was a fire in a future shelter in Bilzen, which is feared that the unsub acted in the footsteps of protests fired by far-right organizations. Photos of neo-Nazis who gave the Hitler greetings in Breendonk were published and finally last week, deradicalisation experts in the media also went to the alarm about the difficulty of talking, for example, at school to young people who make extreme right-wing statements. I therefore have a number of questions for you, Minister, because I believe that this issue should be taken very seriously. How has the number of people known as the far right evolved in recent years? Are there significant regional differences in the number of people followed by the police? If so, can you explain it? In the case of extreme right-wing wolves, is it lone wolves or are they supporters of organisations? Do you have information about the organisations to which these persons are linked and can you also see an increase in the number of organisations? Which organisations are involved? Are they linked to international networks? If so, from which countries? The events of the past few weeks seem to imply a certain escalation. What's your vision on that? What measures do you intend to take to prevent further violence by the extreme right in the future and against when?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u102	Mrs Soors, as a result of your question, my services have indicated that, since the refugee crisis in 2015 and 2016, there has been an increasing trend towards what could be called extreme right-wing activities, which are mainly limited to the virtual world. Of the 12 right-wing extremist groups listed in the 2019 list, 10 can be linked to the Flemish part of the country and 2 to the French part of the country. Currently, about 3,000 people in the police database are linked to a right-wing extremist organisation. The phenomenon of lone wolves occurs throughout the ideological spectrum, from left to right and from the extreme left to the far right. In spite of right-wing extremism, it is mostly in the virtual world, it cannot be ruled out that individuals or small cells want to take action. Of course, an individual's action can never be ruled out. As I said, social media play an important role. As a result, it is very easy to join like-minded international groups as a Belgian group. According to the 2019 Terrorism Situation and Trend Report, published by Europol, Pegida's German division, the "Patriotic Europäer gegen die Islamisierung des Abendlandes" would link with certain Belgian and Dutch partner departments. Police and security services are closely monitoring this situation and are constantly working on a clear image in a diffuse spectrum.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u103	Thank you for your detailed reply, Minister. Thank you also for confirming that the security and intelligence services are paying attention to this phenomenon. My concern about this is partly due to a certain feeling of déjà vu. I remember the time, around 2012, when members of Sharia4Belgium made some weird statements in a video that was recorded at the Atomium. The general reaction in Belgium at the time was that they were a bunch of idiots. The rest, including the attacks on 22 March, is unfortunately a painful history. We must prevent a repetition at all times. I hope, therefore, that I can count on you and the other colleagues to cooperate, for example in drawing up the next Integrated Security Framework Paper, in order to go even more specifically into measures against all forms of extremist organisations. In the current framework paper, the occasion for the attacks on 22 March is very clear. I am also thinking of the people who are confronted with this daily in practice and of those who, for example, have to deal with teachers' statements in class. There are still gaps in practice. If we really want to tackle the roots of that form of extremism, we must avoid it becoming more mainstream and people wanting to take action. I'm gonna keep pulling the alarm as long as the numbers don't go down. I hope that we will not have to discuss this again in a few years' time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u104	Mr President, Minister, my question concerns the fastest adequate aid. Fire Department's working three types of incidents these days. Prio 1 represents life-threatening situations where the factor time is very important. Prio 2 refers to non-life-threatening situations where time is less important. Prio 3 is about non-urgent interventions, such as removing a wasp's nest. The Working Group on Fastest Appropriate Help, which published its final report in June 2018, confirms those categories and the associated intervention times and means. From certain areas of aid, I have recently been informed that the administration is thinking of including type 2 in the fastest appropriate aid. This means that firefighters can still be called to another zone for a call from prio 2, a non-life-threatening situation. When an event prio 1 occurs in their own zone, the driving time is much longer. There is a certain concern about the possibilities for dealing with the problem in our own aid area. From an operational point of view, this can become very difficult and it seems unthinkable to be able to follow up properly. I am aware that the solution to this problem requires a new royal decision, but we are in ongoing business. I do suspect that the FOD has ears for the sighs. In Wallonia and Brussels, I think there is less concern. Minister, are you prepared to solve this problem? What do you want and can you do to address this concern?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u105	Mr President, Mrs Ingels, the new so-called event type list 112 does not contain a new interpretation of the rule, but is an application framework. I am fully prepared to find a solution quickly. On 20 November, my services already invited the Fire Weather Network to submit a proposal, supported by the two fire brigades, in the short term. On this basis, the Royal Decree of 10 November 2012 will be able to be amended in the sense that the principle of the fastest adequate aid should be applied only to the interventions for which it is necessary. This will certainly be a practical response to the legitimate concern you are expressing here today. So we're operational on that file.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u106	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u107	Mr President, Minister, I have been here for a while and I think it is the first time that I have submitted such a local question. I'm looking at you. This is a helpline that I'm trying to throw out because we're slowly running out of ideas locally. I have also tabled a written question. Let me outline the situation. The Agency for Roads and Traffic, which falls under the Flemish level, has adapted the traffic lights regulation and is working on sewage works. This started on 18 March, with blocked intersections and a blocked village. Which police department is authorized? That's the federal police, to make things even more complicated. The citizen has no message about this. He comes to the local government, to the mayor's office with me and says I have to solve it because I also have a federal mandate. Hence the question. For example, if you looked at the Facebook page, you would notice that the lights are currently on red and green at the same time. On my question whether you can send the federal police to check occasionally, as these are the toughest intersections of all Flanders, I got the answer that she hasn't been there since 18 March because there are the Oosterweel, the transmigrants and other priorities. It's just gotten more complicated. Crossroads are closed, people stand still day in and day out. In every traffic survey you will hear that people in Archangel stand still. That's where accidents happen, last week with a cyclist. I need control. The local police are doing what they can, but where she's not authorized, she's not authorized. So, Minister, I come to you with a very simple question. Isn't it possible that you view and control this with your services? I am not asking for permanent control, because that is impossible. We have four intersections, we can't. However, I would ask you to give the order of priority once in a while so that these blockages and systematic infringements can be stopped there and no more accidents happen. Some fatal accidents have occurred since the beginning of the works. Every accident is one too many. I know this is a local item, but I don't have the authority. The federal police are within your jurisdiction, and I come to you, to the end of my counsel, and hope you can give me a positive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u108	Mr President, Mrs De Wit, Mr Mayor, I am already replying to your question and in conclusion it will be yes. I would like to outline the problem. The Antwerp Federal Road Police must always intervene when there is an incident or nuisance, when there are accidents, whatever the nature of them, and must constantly monitor the five intersections. You have rightly made comments on this matter. I've read your comments and suggestions in the media. Moreover, some inhabitants of your municipality, whom I know directly or in derived form, drew my attention to the problem, which is structural. This means that the solution must also be structural. An umbrella system isn't my thing. The Flemish government also partly plays a role. We must be able to discuss the issue of an emergency bridge in a joint consultation. There is no problem for the federal police to get out of the way and there are many problems in the province of Antwerp, in your region, in the Flemish Ruit, with the E17 and the A12, which could put traffic safety in your police area under pressure and then the pressure that is always associated with road works. There will be a further consultation with the HEKLA police area on my initiative. I don't know if you're chairman of the police area right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u109	My colleague Koen Metsu, mayor of Edegem, is chairman.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u110	I do not know whether you are working with a permanent or a rotating presidency.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u111	We change every year. And we spend enough time together.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u112	I have already had informal contact and I will now also formally contact the DirCo, the DirJud and the Road Police Directorate of the Province of Antwerp in order to provide a joint structural solution to the problem, which is operational at other levels. I'm committed to that. I can imagine very well what pressure you are under from your residents, from people crossing your municipality and from companies because of the impact of the works. Control is one thing, infrastructure adjustments and good consultation are of course also important. I undertake to contact all of you and to work out a solution proposal, along with your police area, with your chairman and with all the mayors of Hove, Edegem, Kontich, Lint and Archelaar.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u113	This is indeed the police area of HEKLA, but none of my colleagues are affected by the A12. My municipality is the only one bordering the A12. The nearby police zone RUPEL also includes 4 municipalities bordering the A12, but each crossroads lies on the territory of Aartselaar. That is the major problem of flow and safety. That's also structural, I know.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u114	I know that, too. However, is there anything structural outside the scope of the question that we could do at the federal level?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u115	Minister, I would be very happy if the federal police occasionally, at peak moments, were to guide and help traffic at those intersections. It can make a difference if they show themselves alone. Now it's the Wild West. The red light is ignored and we see ghost riders. Anything can and anything can and why should not be done, because the police will not come. The federal police said the same thing. You'd make me very happy if people would come and see me every once in a while. Structurally, the road has to be tackled, but that's for another level, that's why I have to be across the street.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u116	We'll be in touch.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u117	Mr. Chairman, Minister, a union filed a strike notice with the federal police. Actions could be taken between 9 December and 1 January. It appears that it was a study of well-being at work within the federal police that set the powders on fire. In particular, it notes that one in five officers believe that they have already been discriminated against and that one in four police officers claims to be sexually harassed. More than half of the staff would have thought about leaving their jobs, and almost 20% of those surveyed felt that their managers did not treat them fairly and fairly. The direct hierarchy has not yet reacted, and this slow reaction seems to have triggered the filing of strike notice. Minister, have you been able to read this study? What are the main lines of action? What initiatives have you taken to facilitate dialogue between management and unions? What are the processes underway to reduce the overall pressure on the federal police?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u118	Mr President, Mrs Thibaut, at the request of the Federal Police, the welfare investigation was carried out in 2017 and 2018 by the IDEWE Group, composed of IDEWE ASBL (External Service for Prevention and Protection at Work) and IBEVE ASBL (Experts in Environment and Security), in collaboration with the internal prevention and protection services of the Federal Police. The Federal Police Steering Committee was informed in December 2018 of the first results at macro level. The Senior Consultation Committee was also held in January 2019. On the basis of a first reading, a two-stage approach plan has been drawn up. Its first phase has three cross-cutting themes: leadership, organization and undesirable behaviour. It is followed by contextualization and in-depth improvement paths for each direction. This approach was presented and discussed in an informal consultation with trade unions last May. In addition, the overall prevention plan 2019-2023 "Methodology and content" was also discussed with the trade unions last October. Annual action plans are currently being presented and discussed by management in the core consultation committees. The second phase has begun. The first consultation and discussion meetings are taking place. Again, the results will be submitted to the trade union partners as part of the informal consultation – already scheduled – on 19 December. Both the Commissioner General and I have considered the well-being and safety of staff to be a top priority. This message was reiterated by the Commissioner-General during the negotiations on 3 December. The federal police is a reliable, loyal and essential partner in the security chain. It must have modern, specific and mission-specific infrastructure and work equipment. In addition, I am working hard to ensure that it has the capacity to carry out its tasks. In conclusion, recent regulatory initiatives aimed at further professionalizing and speeding up selection and recruitment (the generalist profile and specialist profile, appropriate training routes, one-for-one recruitment for the operational framework with a view to strengthening the federal police) will undoubtedly contribute, in addition to the involvement of everyone on a daily basis, to strengthening the general well-being of this organisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u119	Minister, I hear and share this option of top priority for well-being at work. The current recruitment will certainly relieve the teams. It's one thing. But today, it must be noted that the first part of the approach plan does not take into account, is not sufficiently empathetic with the experiences of police officers on the ground. Harassment and discrimination are unacceptable. The police are waiting for specific answers on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u120	Questions Nos. 55001836C, 55001837C, 55001838C and 55001840C by Ms.Kattrin Jadin are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u121	Since 26 October, Zadists have planted their tents in Arlon on the site of an old sandstone. They are campaigning against the development of a zoning for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) on an area identified by the Walloon Region as being of great biological interest. They occupy private land of the intercommunal Idelux. For these activists, this area has become a "zone to defend", i.e. a ZAD. Dialogue is difficult between the city, the intercommunal and the Zadists, each defending its model of society. This Friday, 29 November, Arlon experienced an unprecedented mobilization of the security forces, qualified by the Arlonese as a state of siege. We saw two helicopters, drones, the federal police reinforced by teams from the Condroz, Flemalle, Gaume, Lower Sambre, an autopomp, a ram vehicle, and the Mounted Police. More than a hundred policemen took their neighborhoods on the streets of Arlon. A ban on parking, sometimes even traffic, was in force in no less than 35 streets in the city centre. The motive? A demonstration, which could have overflowed according to the mayor. However, this mobilization that the Zadists launched three weeks ago to highlight their movement and publicize their demands a month after their arrival on the site had been cancelled more than ten days earlier by press release. As a quality local daily wrote: "Never in memory of Arlonais, a march will also scare a part of the population." Minister, what are the reasons that led to such a mobilization of law enforcement? Has the police acted alone or in consultation with the State Security? What is the exact inventory of law enforcement personnel deployed in Arlon on 29 November? What was the cost of the operation? Has the Threat Analysis Coordinating Body (TRAC) conducted an analysis of the threat of the march or occupation itself? In your opinion, was this police deployment commensurate with the risk to such an event?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u122	Mr President, Minister, a "walk for the territories" was scheduled to take place in Arlon on Friday, November 29. A video broadcast on the Facebook page of the Zadists (Militants for the area to be defended) had decided the mayor of Arlon, with the agreement of the police college of the Arlon-Attert-Martelange zone, to mobilize important law enforcement forces to secure the demonstration. The video in question is shocking. It is a real incitement to violence. There are four crooked militants dancing in front of a fifth who cut a tree. These men run screaming and make a finger of honor to the camera. This video served as a call for mobilization for Friday's demonstration. It was more of a call to go to hell. The demonstration did not finally take place but the cancellation was not the subject of any official press release, except on the Facebook page of the activists. It should also be noted that the so-called Zadists are not Arlonese or Attertois. They're people from outside. When a mayor is informed of a series of elements, it makes sense for him to put in place the total protection of the area in which the various activities or demonstrations will take place. Mr Minister, can a responsible mayor afford not to predict anything when we know the threats, when the police told him of the risks involved if nothing was put in place to ensure the safety of the population at the place concerned by the demonstration? I would like to recall the role of a mayor and his responsibilities. Sometimes I tell myself that you almost have to be unconscious to stay unconscious when you know them. Those who are can testify to it. Imagine the other way around! If the demonstration had taken place, there would have been monumental damage. When people walk and express themselves, breakers come on all sides. The risk is there. The danger is there. What are the penalties for the mayor if he does not put anything in place? Indeed, the question that my colleague has just asked before me is very clearly about the fact that nothing should probably be put in place. I would like to know how far the mayor's responsibility goes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u123	Mr. Arens and Ms. Thibaut, the subject to which you refer is well described in Ministerial Circular OOP41 concerning the negotiated management of public space in relation to events affecting public order. Open-air meetings or demonstrations, as in the present case, remain entirely subject to the law of the police and may be subject to preventive measures, such as prior authorization by the mayor, as they temporarily disrupt the normal function of the places where they are organised. Mrs Thibaut, since the arrival of the Zadists in Arlon, there have been some 20 judicial acts, such as voluntary degradation for several thousand euros, gang robbery in shops, environmental offences, threats with weapons, carrying prohibited weapons. A demonstration was announced by Facebook. At the request of the mayor, a written request was sent and answered. Despite several calls from the mayor, no official cancellation had been received. The risk analysis was carried out by the local police and endorsed by the Luxembourg Federal Police and then by the national federal police. An analysis was also made by the OCAM on 27 November and by the State Security. These analyses have demonstrated the presence in the ADA of many people who are unfavorably known for environmental offences, deliberate degradation, arson, robbery, contempt, rebellion, assault and threats of attacks. OCAM also mentioned the presence of a propagandist of hatred. Based on the methodology used and the information in its possession, an average level 2 threat level had been established by the OCAM for the Arlon event on Friday, 29 November 2019. There was only one helicopter passing through to give images of the interior of the ZAD and search for vans and mobile homes in the area. The Arlon police area has drones that run its operations almost daily. The reinforcements were granted by the federal police and the presence of the other police areas is simply part of the concept of integrated police, which provides for mutual support. Pyrotechnic devices were fired from the ZAD to the police in a tense manner and a police officer was beaten by a Zadist and had a five-day incapacity for work. Hammers, knives, wood scissors were seized. The philosophy of the Ministerial Circular on the Maintenance and Restoration of Public Order provides for negotiations that have not taken place due to the fault of the organizers but also the de-escalation, which has been the case, of the police measures. I learn that Arlon's justice of peace issued, on November 28, 2019, a judgment that allows the eviction of the site, as requested by the owners.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u124	Minister, thank you for this relatively comprehensive answer. The purpose of this question was to assess whether the upstream steps had been taken to implement such a deployment. We were really in a city in a state of war, with a hallucinating deployment in Arlon. I hear that this is a collective decision of the police zone, that is, of all the cdH mayors of the southern police zone. I also hear that you have 20 facts in court, namely the robberies committed by the Zadists in Arlon's stores. It's quite surprising for pacifists, alterglobalists. We'll see. Arrests have taken place, but the Salduz procedure, which provides for the presence of a lawyer, has not been applied. You didn't mention it. As far as arms are concerned, it seems to me that this is a trial of intent. Zadists have tools to work in the woods. They are therefore not weapons within the meaning of the law. "A propagandist of hatred"! I am also concerned about this. Finally, the demonstration had been cancelled. You did not indicate whether this police operation was intended to frame the demonstration or was interested in the occupation. I note that this was more in relation to the occupation. Minister, we had a rather absurd situation, since the event did not finally take place. I find these police and political actions shocking and unworthy of a rule of law. In addition, they have created a climate of fear. I regret the loss of cold blood on both sides. That is why I reserve the right to ask Committee P to examine this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u125	Minister, I believe that no mayor – when he is warned, as was the one in Arlon – can refrain from reacting to threats to this organization. We must not forget that for some time now, ladies and gentlemen, these zadists have occupied private property. I am one of those who fight for the environment, but I consider that there are other methods than this kind of sit-in. Between men and women politicians, we need to find other means of communication than those used by the ZAD. I keep repeating that those who are mobilized there are not necessarily Arlonnais or Attertois, in short, citizens of the police area – far from there! Sometimes they come from far away, probably with good intentions. Mrs Thibaut, not all policies in the region are CDH. We are surprised by the scale of these events and the escalation of recent weeks. I appeal for politics to start negotiating because there are openings. Sometimes there are projects with which I disagree, but I have never provoked people so that they mobilize and create a bad climate in a region.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u126	Minister, a few weeks ago an article appeared in the newspaper concerning certain clauses in insurance contracts, anti-police clauses, so to speak. It concerns provisions in contracts, in particular debt balance insurance, which state that if a police officer dies within two years of the conclusion of the contract during the course of his occupation, the balance of debt insurance shall not be interrupted. Immediately there were calming words from the insurers that these are past clauses, which will not be applied, but we would like to have some more certainty about those clauses when the situation would arise. Insurance companies may explain this, but those clauses still exist legally and contractually. Firstly, is there a legal basis on which insurers rely to include such clauses in the contract? Secondly, has there been any discussion with the sector and any guarantees that these clauses will not be applied? Thirdly, and perhaps most importantly, can you at this time reassure our policemen and women and ensure that the government guarantees itself in the event that an insurer decides to implement such clauses? Perhaps a solution is to provide for a legal initiative whereby the State guarantees itself, if the insurer does not do so himself. But I'd be happy to let you answer that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u127	Mr Donné, I have been informed, as you know, that certain insurance companies provide for certain exceptions in their general terms and conditions, which could lead to policemen dying during and as a result of their professional activities being or would not be covered by their balance of debt insurance or other life insurance or life insurance. It is completely unacceptable to me that policemen who have just guaranteed the maintenance of security in our rule of law should not be covered if that death is the result of incidents that occur to them during their service activities. My services are currently preparing a letter to the insurers, requesting members to be black and white in general. to include conditions that, for existing and future policies, the death of a member of the police forces following the performance of his duties is not covered by any grounds for exclusion. As a function of the insurers' response, I will, if necessary, take a legal initiative to ensure that the government, as the employer of the policeman and woman concerned, guarantees the loss of capital with subrogation, and then focus on the insurer in question. By analogy, I took such an initiative when I managed the Department of Defense.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u128	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We will await the response of the insurance sector to your letter. It seems to me that a legal initiative can still be the most secure solution, just as you have done in the case of the defence sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u129	Mr President, Minister, on 17 October last year the 25th anniversary of the ASBL PAG-ASA was celebrated, which organized a conference in the Senate with experts and front-line actors to take stock of the accompaniment of victims of human trafficking in Belgium. In her speech, the Speaker of the Senate recalled that in 2012, the Senate had addressed this phenomenon and had established a working group specifically dedicated to this issue. Following numerous hearings and an in-depth examination of the issue, the Working Group on Trafficking in Human Beings had adopted general recommendations, inter alia, strengthening cooperation at Belgian level among all stakeholders working together in the areas of prevention, protection and repression, and more specific recommendations, including increased awareness among front-line actors, the establishment of an emergency reception centre, the strengthening of the capacity of proactive investigation teams and, in particular, those of the Federal Judicial Police in Brussels. Minister, what is the status of implementation of these recommendations with the various partners involved today? What collaborative structures exist between local and federal police forces in the fight against trafficking and trafficking in human beings? How do you evaluate this collaboration? What dialogue is in place between the various federal public services, federated entities and local authorities to provide specific solutions to victims?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u130	Mr President, Mr Kir, the fight against trafficking in human beings has been reinforced by the adoption of the circular of the College of Attorneys General on trafficking and trafficking in human beings. Since then, Circular 13/2018 on trafficking in human beings alone has been published. These two circulars incorporate the recommendations made by the 2012 Senate working group to which you referred. One of the objectives of the National Security Plan 2016-2019 is to carry out an evaluation of Circular 01/2015 by several networks of expertise which have been asked to formulate, where appropriate, several proposals for improvement. A summary of these improvement proposals is to be prepared by the FPS Justice Network of Expertise within the end of this year. At the heart of each of the Kingdom's judicial districts, platforms for consultation between local and federal investigators are organized under the auspices of the reference magistrates. These platforms create the conditions for good coordination between the different investigation units. As a reminder, the comprehensive security framework note and the National Security Plan incorporate the views of federated entities on their integrated security concerns. However, mechanisms are also in place to transpose the National Security Plan to the local level into zonal security plans. borough platforms are regularly organized to facilitate coordination between administrative and judicial authorities, regardless of criminal phenomena. It goes without saying that trafficking in human beings is a subject that is taken into account in this context. Overall and subject to the proposals to improve Circular 01/2015, which will be highlighted in the publication of the synthesis report referred to above, the consultation between the various partners in the chain to combat trafficking in human beings can be assessed as satisfactory. The main problems encountered are, in general, the lack of staffing and capacity within the various units of the integrated police force. Finally, in view of the fact that there is some disparity in this respect, a project to standardise the basic training of police officers on the issue of trafficking in human beings is currently being piloted by the DGJ's Central Human Trafficking Service. Other initiatives are also under way with private sector actors to raise awareness of human trafficking indicators.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u131	Minister, thank you for your full answer. You yourself pointed out the shortage of staff. I would like to add that in my commune, in relation to the scourge of trafficking in human beings, in connection with prostitution, a remarkable work has been carried out by all the operators (the public prosecutor's office, the federal police, the zonal police). I would like to thank all the speakers once again. It can be seen that the recommendations have been followed up. But it is true that the lack of resources is to be stressed. I will return to a more specific question on trafficking in human beings in connection with prostitution.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u132	Minister, my question concerns the follow-up to the recommendations of the Federal Ombudsman. For several years, the Federal Ombudsman has received complaints from persons who do not receive letters sent by certain authorities or who receive letters which are not intended for them. He has already pointed out several times to the Internal SPF, DG Institutions and Population (DGIP), that some important postal items are lost. The people concerned tried in vain to solve their problem with La Poste, which became bpost. The problem, however, did not relate to the loss of certain postal items by bpost, but rather to the address of the addressee, and more specifically to his house number. In 2013, the Ombudsman made the recommendation: "Adapt the National Register so that all house numbers, including those with a letter, can be registered in the appropriate field, so that mail sent on the basis of the National Register data can be sent to the correct address." What is your position on this recommendation of the Federal Ombudsman, as set out in the annual report? What action has been taken in favour of adapting the National Register?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u133	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the new structure of the National Register in the sense recommended by the Federal Ombudsman must take account of the evolution of the data model which has been defined by the various partners in the framework of the BeSt Address Scope cooperation agreement in which the federal authorities, the Regions, the Communities, the municipalities and the bpost In 2019, a number of priority projects entered into force, including the merger of communes in Flanders, the launch of the data bank of civil acts, preparations for and conduct of elections in October 2018 and May 2019. The planned adaptations also depend on the progress of regional address registers and the fundamental impact on many applications both in the National Register and to all its users, which also requires certain technical developments in other administrations. For all these reasons, the introduction of a new structure for the registration of the address in the National Register planned for the end of September 2019 has been reviewed. However, in conclusion, I can inform you that the technical tests are currently under way in the National Register to operationalize the new address structure of the National Register in 2020. A circular with the final structure and a timetable for commissioning will soon be sent to the users of the National Register.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-04-55-commissie-ic065x.u134	Thank you very much, Minister.
