ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u1	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, pending the arrival of the President, Mr. Van Quickenborne, who also has a question on the Climate Fund, which is the subject of the topical and urgent debate under item 1 of our agenda, will turn to the following questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u2	Madam President, we have heard from the media the decision of the European Investment Bank (EIB) to stop investing in fossil fuel-driven projects from 2021. This decision will bring about a trillion euros to sustainable investment in the future. I have questions about that. The decision of the European Investment Bank to stop supporting fossil energy projects in the future is an important decision that can affect other banks. I have tabled this question mainly because we are discussing the CRM here. I wonder whether you do not think that this decision could also make certain energy projects simply impossible to finance. I'd like to have your opinion on that. In your opinion, will this decision have an impact on the future energy supply in our country and certainly on the CRM? Should we not take this into account in the CRM design? Meanwhile, we have learned here that there is a choice to allow investments in three, eight and fifteen years. Investment over 15 years seems to us to be very long-term and very large investments, which could be put under pressure as a result of this decision by the EIB. Can we not therefore better consider whether we can also work with ecological criteria for these large, long-term investments?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u3	Madam President, Minister, the European Investment Bank will stop financing fossil energy by the end of 2021 and will provide a financial injection of EUR 1 trillion to sustainable investments by 2030. That is indeed a historic decision, as Mr Verduyckt pointed out. After phasing out coal loans earlier in 2013, the bank now indicates that investment in oil and natural gas is also an inherent risk in the context of the fight against climate change. However, the decision of November 2019 has been weakened. The EIB makes an exception for a number of natural gas investment projects on the list of Projects or Common Interest or PCI lists. This means that clean gas projects with low CO2 emissions will still be eligible if companies commit themselves to adding cleaner gas during the life of the project. The Belgian CRM, the framework of which has been approved but which is currently being developed by means of implementing decisions and royal decisions, is, although it is technology-neutral and each operator can participate in it, highly focused on replacement capacity through new gas plants. Madam Secretary, the Belgian CRM does not float in the air or in a vacuum. The reality of the changed views of the European Investment Bank is important. We are also talking about long-term investment at 15 years in certain projects. Do you think that the development of the CRM should take into account the changed priorities, objectives or financing policies of the European Investment Bank?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u4	Madam President, Madam Minister, according to the report of the European public services unions, which note the failure of the liberalisation of the energy sector in Europe, the deployment of renewable energy has been possible only because the European Union has enabled them to be deployed in trade agreements outside the free market. Subsidies have facilitated increased generation of electricity from renewable energy sources, but this protection runs counter to EU energy liberalisation policies. The European Commission is now seeking to reduce the protection afforded to renewable energy, in particular by introducing the capacity compensation mechanism, which is said to be technologically neutral and which, by this technological neutrality, removes the protection which benefits the renewable energy sector. Many European countries intend to reduce or eliminate subsidies for renewable energy. As a result, in the European Union, the level of investment in these energies fell from $132 billion in 2011 to $41 billion in 2017. In Germany, between 2014 and 2016, investments plunged by more than 60%. In the United Kingdom, they fell by 66% between 2016 and 2017. There is no secret, renewable energy requires much greater investment. While they are profitable in the long term, it is well known that the free market operates on the basis of short-term profitability. Minister, the CRM, by its technological neutrality, removes protection from the renewable energy sector and therefore an incentive to invest in this specific sector. In your view, how could CRM encourage large investors to invest in the renewable energy sector anyway?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will respond spontaneously and globally on this subject which I am particularly familiar with. First of all, I considered the EIB's announcement to be a premature announcement even if the disappearance of fossil energy financing in the context of EIB development leaves an advance notice to the operators and project holders so that they have time to put themselves in order to take this event into account. It seems to me that the cessation of these financings is around 2021. The reason I found this announcement premature is the fact that, with regard to the European bank, most countries around Belgium already have a strong coal energy mix, such as Poland and Germany, to name but a few examples. When these countries begin – Germany has planned a phase out but not Poland – the reduction of their energy production through fossil fuels such as coal (the most polluting), it will be necessary to find alternative energy – which is also a transitional energy. Given that renewable energy is on the rise throughout Europe because the European directives provide for each country to make efforts in this direction, the intermittent nature of these renewable energy sources will make it necessary to support this process with flexible and manageable energy which can only be gas in this case. As a result, gas operators will surely be asked by these different countries so that the energy mix changes the time that renewables progress and that very large amounts of renewable energy can be stored in order to restore them when the wind is missing and the sun does not show up. It'll take a while. No one today can tell you when we will be able to access these large storage capacities technologically. That's why I reacted that way. Of course, there are other funders. It's not just the EIB. I have no doubt that the EIB is much more nuanced than the press suggests, and can make its calculations and forecasts of investments also backed up by possibilities for carbon capture, for example. As far as Belgium is concerned, as you know, I am working on secondary legislation, that is to say, the royal decrees that will make operational the framework law that was passed here in day-to-day business, on 22 April 2019, for the development of a mechanism to pay for capacity at minimum cost. This means that we will try to provide support through the lowest possible public procurement. They will allow us to have, at the lowest cost, the best technology for gas production, but not only. In this way, we can replace nuclear capacity. Why do I say "not just"? Because the mechanism is technologically neutral. I would like to see agreement on that term. It means that this mechanism is open to all energy production, to demand management, to renewable energy, to storage, to energy production, in particular by gas, but there may be others. This if you enter into the specifications to provide capacity to Belgium on its soil from 2025. Why, in this list, do I put forward the renewable, which has not been sufficiently put forward under this mechanism? Because with the European Commission, it has been decided that the renewable that was already subsidized could come to no longer be subsidized – this happens when it reaches the end of the support period, or when it reaches its profitability figure because the conditions and business case allow it. This decision was taken in order to avoid oversubsidization. Indeed, it is not a question of obtaining subsidies twice and of making the consumer pay twice for the energy he consumes. It's very important. It's the consumer hub. This is not a question of benefiting one technology rather than another; it is a question that is always related to the cost to the consumer. If the consumer pays for support, he must pay only once for the energy he consumes. The Royal Order on Funding is currently being prepared. This is not the only one; you have heard it because you have had hearings here with all the speakers in the accompanying group. One route envisaged is to base the financing of the mechanism on consumption peaks, thus providing an opportunity to motivate suppliers, and indirectly end consumers, to reduce their consumption peaks. In reality, when everyone consumes, often at the same time – at eight o'clock in the morning, everyone is at home; after sixteen o'clock, everyone goes home – there are significant peaks of consumption, usually in winter. Efforts must be made to encourage reduced consumption. Therefore, from the outset, we are seeking this balance. The mechanism must be geared towards reducing the consumption peak and not to encouraging increases in consumption. This mechanism is therefore truly dedicated to the energy transition and the transformation of our consumption patterns. With respect to the cost of the mechanism, PwC had made estimates in March 2018. According to PwC's assumptions, the cost was EUR 345 million per year. You know that there are discussions about cost based on how other stakeholders in the accompanying committee assess future quantities. As a matter of fact, I have already mentioned this, but I repeat again, future quantities are very difficult to assess, since in the meantime, many policies tend to reduce consumption, such as the isolation of buildings or the greening of transport. As for who between the government and its budget, the companies that are also involved in the support and the consumers will bear the cost of this mechanism, as I have told you, in my view, this final decision on cost allocation cannot be made by a government in day-to-day business but will have to be made by a full-fledged government, since there will be opportunities for degression to support the competitiveness of our businesses. The CRM framework law was passed with the sole aim of preserving our security of supply in an energy transition framework and within a legal framework that still provides for a majority unchanged since 2003, the release of nuclear power in 2025. I repeat that CRM is not dedicated to promoting one energy rather than another. The idea is that renewables will continue to grow, especially at the federal level because we have a plan until 2030 to "fill" even more wind fields in the North Sea to reach an installed capacity of 4 GW. But in the regional energy-climate plans, which will be combined with the federal energy-climate plan to form together the national energy-climate plan that we must return to Europe, the trajectories of increasing renewable energy in the regions will appear. I repeat that CRM does not have to encourage the market to choose one technology rather than another. It must respect all technologies. All technologies which are not supported and which are under the conditions of generating electricity for the Belgian consumer will be able to enter. The CRM will, of course, comply with the Clean Energy Package's guidelines for the emission levels of electrical capacity. I took part in a show yesterday where Mr. Van Ypersele of the IPCC explained again that in the hierarchy of CO2 emission values for electricity generation, nuclear was very high, just below hydro, wind and photovoltaic panels, while gas is much further, and coal is much more, with oil being the most polluting. I mustn't explain to you that oil generators are even more polluting. This CO2 emission will have to be backed up by CO2 capture technologies, if possible, in any case in infrastructures that are sufficiently efficient to be the least possible CO2 emitters. In any case, when I negotiated the Interfederal Energy Pact with the Regions, it was at that time a question of reaffirming the principle of the law which provides for the release of nuclear power in 2025. The increase in renewables and energy efficiency efforts being in the hands of the Regions, in their competence, they must assert very proactive trajectories to compensate for the CO2 emissions associated with centralized production at the federal level.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u6	Madam Minister, I have listened to your comments on the CRM. Yesterday we again took note of an important report by the WMO within the United Nations. There appears to be another record amount of CO2 in the air. I think it is particularly important that not only an organisation such as the European Investment Bank sends out a signal, but that we also send out a signal. We can give a signal in our CRM, among other things. I have listened very carefully here over the last few weeks, to the hearings on the CRM, but also to the various stakeholders who have spoken here and to the discussion between the CREG and Elijah on the amount of energy we need in the future. What I have learned from this is that there is a problem in the future, but that is manageable in itself. I'm not naive. I can also see that we will need gas in that energy mix. However, there are other issues that have also been discussed here, such as storage and demand management. At the moment, the sp.a is very afraid that the CRM will be mainly a free route towards the construction of gas plants. After all, we do not think that this construction will even be necessary. That is why I am arguing that we should consider whether we should support this mechanism for 15 years. We could do this perfectly at eight or three years, as is now stated. We could also demand that a certain investment be possible, but after eight years it must be carbon neutral. We can build in those criteria, and we have a handle on that. You're talking about technology neutrality. That is a choice you may make, but by building in certain criteria we can of course steer. I think we really need that direction. You say it's good for the wallet. It is also good for the wallet if we do not invest for 15 years in installations that may not be necessary afterwards. It is particularly good for the environment and CO2 emissions, which go down.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u7	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your very comprehensive reply. The second part dealt mainly with the technology neutrality of the CRM, also a little in response to Mr Warmoes' question. I think it is very good that you emphasise the importance of gas in the energy transition. After all, my focus is not the same as that of my colleagues. You have nuanced that gas will continue to play an important role in the energy transition in the coming decades and that operators will have until the end of 2021 to make adjustments. I also note that the Member States will have to adopt a list of projects of common interest only next year and that the existing more flexible emission standards will still apply to these projects. That's not unimportant. After all, you said that what the European Investment Bank certainly did is premature and little nuanced, but there are nuances to be made. However, there is not enough time to discuss this further, but I thank you for your comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u8	Minister, thank you for your clear answer. With regard to the energy mix, some countries, such as the Netherlands, have chosen not to opt for gas for the benefit of other technologies. This country also has a shut-down gas power plant. You have well expressed your view that the market must be supplied at the minimum cost, i.e. the lowest possible cost. That is where the problem lies.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u9	You also talked about the consumer and the industry. I was pleased to learn that it is not up to the government in day-to-day business to decide this issue. However, the question is who will pay. You say that CRM has nothing to do with it and that it does not aim to move towards renewables. We are therefore completely ignoring the issue of climate change, while, as I recall, at European level, the objective is to achieve a share of energy from renewable sources of 32% by 2030, with the Commission asking Belgium to significantly increase its level of ambition by 2030 to at least 25%. In my view, it is regrettable that you only consider the question of the lowest cost. You talk about degression and business support, without referring to consumers who might be subjected to the same degression or who might be spared. This is an issue to be discussed by the next government. You say that the renewable will continue to grow, which I welcome, as I welcome what is happening in the North Sea, even though I doubt that the objectives are sufficiently ambitious. To return to the energy mix, if we opt for gas – you said not just gas – if renewables are not sufficiently competitive or receive enough aid, we may not achieve our goal. This could block research into alternatives in renewables and on storage through other technologies. I am thinking here of hydrogen storage technology, which the Netherlands has decided to develop, unlike us.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u10	Chairperson: Vincent Van Quickenborne. President: Vincent Van Quckenborne.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, I would suggest that, as usual, we have the questioners first. Then the other Members, such as Mrs Hanus, can join the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u12	Mr President, Minister, on 24 October 2019 Parliament adopted a resolution on the Belgian contribution to the Green Climate Fund. The resolution has been approved in Chambers. In that resolution, Parliament mandates the government to double the federal financial contribution in a budget-neutral manner from 2020. The resolution was an initiative of Parliament through Mr Michel De Maegd and followed on from the Prime Minister's statements in New York, where the Prime Minister had already announced his intention to introduce a doubling. The resolution was adopted on the eve of the High Level Pledging Conference of 24-25 October 2019. At that conference, Belgium undertook to give EUR 40 million. The federal contribution to the Green Climate Fund for the first period 2015-2018 was 50 million euros. The doubling approved in Parliament would amount to EUR 120 million, converted and taking into account exchange rates. The difference between EUR 40 million and EUR 120 million is therefore difficult to understand. That is why I have tabled this oral question. Madam Minister, what does the commitment of EUR 40 million mean? Does that mean the entire contribution of Belgium, i.e. both from the federal government and from the regions, or is it just about the federal share? How will the resolution of 24 October 2019 be implemented? By when will the federal share be doubled? How does the consultation with the Regions take place throughout the Belgian contribution and its distribution?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u13	Mr President, Minister, there is indeed some confusion. According to the Summary Pledge Table of the First Replenishment of the Green Climate Fund, Belgium pled EUR 40 million in Paris on 24 and 25 October last year. The federal contribution to the UN Green Climate Fund to date amounted to 10 million euros per year. The government, through former Prime Minister Michel in New York, proposed doubling the federal section for the Green Climate Fund to, I suspect, EUR 20 million a year for the next four years. The totality of Belgian climate financing per year was regulated in the Burden Sharing Agreement of 4 December 2015, following the Paris Climate Agreement. All governments committed themselves together to an annual funding of EUR 50 million until 2020, with the following breakdown. The federal government pays 25 million euros annually, including 10 million euros for the Green Climate Fund. The Flemish Region pays €14.5 million annually, the Walloon Region €8.25 million annually and the Brussels Capital Region €2.25 million annually. Of these, therefore, only part of the funds were allocated to the Green Climate Fund at regional level. With this statement I would like to outline the whole framework. How exactly should Belgium's EUR 40 million pledge in Paris be understood? Has the issue of international climate financing been addressed in the discussions you have had with the competent Flemish, Brussels and Walloon ministers in recent weeks? Have any new commitments been made at regional level?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u14	Mr President, Minister, on 24 October we adopted the resolution on the Belgian contribution to the financing of the fight against climate change. We asked the government to double the federal contribution to the Green Climate Fund. This resolution was discussed with urgency in plenary so that it would be ready in time for the pledging session in Paris on 24 and 25 October. The resolution was there in time, but the government did not take it into account. Our country has not promised a doubling, but a reduction. Belgium promised EUR 40 million, while the contribution should have been EUR 120 million for a doubling, if the current exchange rate is taken into account. Madam Secretary, how do you explain this difference in funding? Will you ensure that the Belgian contribution is doubled? What actions will you take at the Madrid Climate Summit?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u15	Mrs Farih is not here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u16	Madam Minister, I am not going to repeat what colleagues have said. I have read the requested part of the resolution carefully again and it says literally 'double the federal contribution', not the Belgian contribution, but the federal contribution. It is therefore not about the Belgian contribution or the contribution of the Regions, but about the federal contribution. Secondly, we have, to our regret, decided to do so in a budget-neutral way. This means that this comes from the budget of Development Cooperation, which sends out the signal that we are giving priority to climate change when it comes to development cooperation. That's a choice that's being made. The adoption of this resolution was, of course, just when the Paris Conference was already in progress, but fortunately we are living in modern times and we were able to transfer it quickly to Paris. In the past a pigeon or a fax was needed for this, now one can send it through. I think it ended up with the people who were there. I don't know who was there, at least I wasn't there. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. Firstly, what is the real amount of the doubling of the federal contribution to the Green Climate Fund? Secondly, who represented Belgium at the Paris Conference? What exactly was promised by Belgium? Thirdly, how will the government make the doubling of the federal government official in current cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to clarify that the federal contribution of EUR 50 million in the first period was EUR 40 million and EUR 10 million in capital. This is a federal contribution, as the President has just said. A capital contribution means that these funds can be returned to the donor. A doubling of the donations therefore amounts to EUR 80 million. The EUR 40 million commitment in Paris was just federal money, I say it again. It remains possible to make additional contributions even after the last pledging session. This therefore, on the one hand, allows the federal government to double its contribution, as specifically stated in the footnote to the current pledge: " Belgium aims to double its contribution in line with the Belgian Parliamentary resolution adopted on 24 October 2019.' This offers, on the other hand, the possibility for the Regions to make a contribution and in the run-up to the pledging session, this was discussed with the Regions at official level. As I indicated during the debate, the federal government will use unused appropriations for the first tranche of EUR 10 million, which will be clearer to go to COP 25. That said, for further details on federal funding for climate change projects, I invite you to address my colleague in charge of Development Cooperation. I will say a few more words before speaking to my colleague who will explain how the Accountability Fund works. When we negotiated with the Regions – you referred to it – the political agreement of 4 December 2015 called the burden sharing 2013-2020, it aimed to allocate between the Regions and the federal government efforts in terms of increasing renewable energy, reducing greenhouse gases, policies and measures for the federal government regarding these greenhouse gases and their reduction. The goal was also that everyone, at their level, should contribute to the Accountability Fund to finance the Green Climate Fund, the funds needed to combat global warming at the international level. Mr. Ravyts recalled, there was an agreement that every level of power should promise and end up paying for something. The federal government has therefore pledged EUR 25 million. This means that the federal government has given more than $25 million. That is what needs to be explained today, since we have given 40 million in pure donations and 10 million in loans which must one day be repaid, and you know that when we say that, we almost say that we do not expect the repayment of these 10 million. The doubling of the federal contribution is, therefore, what has been given and promised, i.e. EUR 80 million. How will this promise be fulfilled? First of all, as I just explained to you, it can be done with the $10 million. However, it is clear that we must remain, especially during current business, in a neutral budgetary operation – for example, by using appropriations that have not yet been used. Moreover, if we use new ones, we will have to compensate them with corresponding savings. I will give the floor for a moment to my collaborator to explain to you the mechanism of the Accountability Fund, which is linked to this joint promise to make efforts and share them in the context of the burden sharing 2013-2020 – and we will have to negotiate another one for the period 2021-2030. For the moment, the level of power that must be the leader in the performance of this work is the Walloon Region. Unless it's the Brussels Region? To be checked...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u18	As the Minister has already said, there has been the Burden Sharing, whereby the federal level would receive a contribution from the revenues of the ETS. This contribution amounts to 10% of the revenue. About that 10% there was an agreement in the government's lap. This 10% would first and foremost serve to pay the bonuses and the maluses to the regions that perform better than the set target. In this respect, we inform each year of the budget, i.e. revenue and expenditure in this area. There is always a small balance that is currently in the fund. If the Minister states that it may be possible to draw from this, then Parliament should adopt a legislative amendment on the organic fund, which would allow the remaining balance to be used, for example to make international financing. It is therefore up to Parliament to amend that law.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u19	Minister, you have responded in part to the question of where the funds come from. Do you confirm that the contribution will be additional to the budget allocated to Development Cooperation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u20	I understand the question, which is recurring, but I am not the right minister to answer it. The government agreement provides that all international funds are managed by the Minister for Development Cooperation, to whom I ask you to address this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u21	Madam Secretary, I still think it's a very special file. First, the prime minister makes a major announcement in New York and then a resolution by the minister's party, in which the word 'budget neutral' does not stand at all. That didn't happen until after a discussion here. Now I hear "budget neutral." For you, Mr President, it means that we must remain in the budget for development cooperation. That's never been clear to me. For me, budget neutrality means staying within the federal budget. Anyway, those are choices that one makes. I find it special to see that. I also regret that the colleague from CD&V is not here, because I see that CD&V is tabling a resolution in plenary this week, in which she insists that 0,7% of our GNI should go to development cooperation. If that is what she really thinks, then I am still very sorry that our amendment has not been approved, because we could have obtained a majority in order to get that terrible word 'budget neutral' out of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u22	Madam Secretary, I do not know if I have understood correctly the beginning of your reply. In the first period, therefore, 50 million would have been given, including 40 million down pur and 10 million loans, but it is added that the 40 million is a capital contribution and that it can be returned to the donor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u23	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u24	It's the other way around? I didn't get it right.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u25	In fact, we have committed up to 25 million dollars in the framework of the burden sharing 2013-2020. Belgium's effort has been greater, since in the area of pure donations, without the obligation of retrocession on the part of the recipient country or countries, 40 million have been promised and 10 million have been added to this amount, which is the subject of a loan formula requiring the recipient to return them. In this case, I wanted to say that these aid-oriented formulas to the less developed countries are not traditional lending formulas. As a result, this may never be reimbursed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u26	I understand better now. Thank you for the answer. Of course, Parliament can only say something about the federal share in a resolution. That's not up for discussion. I do not want to leave any doubt about that either. Of course there are also regions, there is also the Burden Sharing to which you referred, Madam Minister, which also means that there is a regional share in addition to the federal share. I understand that there has been an official consultation, but apparently without any finality. I will certainly ask my regional colleagues to check what was said there. We have indeed approved the principle of budget neutrality. The compensation does not necessarily have to come from the Development Co-operation heading. It's possible, but you don't have to. I agree with Mr Verduyckt. Ecolo-Green believes that this is not necessary in itself. It is actually a consultation between you and the Minister for Development Cooperation. I think the suggestion to look at the underutilisation of the funds from the pot that was realized by Burden Sharing is certainly relevant. This responds to the demand for budget neutrality and goes beyond the resources of development cooperation, which means that it does not necessarily have to come from the resources of development cooperation. I'd like to pick up that hint and see what else can be done with it. I agree that it is about development cooperation and that the question can also be put to the Minister for Development Cooperation. Here, however, is the suggestion that the means of the Burden Sharing, which are underutilized, can be used.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u27	Also, and above all, to the Minister for Development Cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u28	Indeed, as far as the question of whether or not the funds to be used should come from the development cooperation budget is concerned, I hear your colleague say that there is an underutilisation of the Boni from the revenue allocated to the federal level as part of the burden sharing. Well, maybe we can use it for that too, but then the law needs to be changed. Then that is a nice cooperation between climate and development cooperation and it does not depend solely on the Minister for Development Cooperation. Maybe I didn't get it right, though.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u29	The problem is first and foremost that there is no agreement in the National Climate Commission on the boni and the mali and what will be paid and what will not. Speaking now about what we will do with the balance is, therefore, very premature for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u30	You have made that suggestion, if there is a balance, but then the budget fund law should be amended.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u31	If!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u32	So it's conditional, if there's a balance. We understand each other between the lines. I would like to comment briefly on the doubling of resources. We were indeed talking in our resolution about doubling the resources. Madam Minister, you say that this doubling of the funds for you is about the amount of EUR 40 million converted into dollars, which we have promised. The exchange rates ensure that the amount can be slightly higher. I do not necessarily agree that we should confine ourselves to that EUR 40 million capital. We should also look at the 10 million loan. The resolution on the federal contribution adopted by Parliament concerns a doubling of resources. That is the whole question, whether it is capital or a loan. That is certainly a point on which we should be able to exchange views.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u33	Madam Minister, with regard to the amounts, it is not easy to bring light into the darkness. However, I understand that a doubling would mean EUR 80 million. I can see that. Then there is the consultation at official level on the Burden Sharing with the Regions. Your colleague has already said that no agreement has yet been reached in the National Climate Committee on the Boni and the Mali. However, that could be a piste for us, because we are very clearly in favour of budget neutrality. We are open to development cooperation. It is a different focus, but well, the story goes on and we are very curious about the outcome.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u34	Madam Minister, there was apparently a misunderstanding: we assumed EUR 50 million, but you say that it is EUR 40 million, plus a loan of EUR 10 million. Now you also want to raise the amount to EUR 80 million, but would you confirm that at COP25 in Madrid? Will you confirm that explicitly?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u35	This is part of the statements made at the COP. We have not yet had an exchange of views on what will be presented by the Regions and the federal government. For the moment, I understand that the three regional ministers and I will be present in Madrid during the week of 9 December, until 13 December. You should know that the Flemish part of the National Energy-Climate Plan will be adopted by the Flemish government on 6 December, the day before our departure. After that, I will have all the contributions from regional governments. I will pass the federal part – which I should have passed last Friday but it has been postponed – from the National Energy-Climate Plan to the government this Friday. This will allow us to discuss this issue together next week as planned. As soon as we have all the parts that make up the entire Plan, I and my regional colleagues, we will determine what announcements we will make. In this context, I have experience of the fact that the Regions, in general, also promise to finance the Green Climate Fund to the tune of EUR x (depending on their decision). This has happened at previous COPs but, for the time being, I have not yet received any commitment from them. As far as I am concerned, you know my answer as it is the subject of the current debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u36	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We will continue to follow the dossier closely in any case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u37	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the environmental footprint of digital technology is too often underestimated. According to a study by Green IT, a French firm specializing in digital environmental practices, this sector could double its greenhouse gas emissions and triple its environmental impacts by 2025. This boom is due to the growing number of users but also to the explosion of connected objects and on-board computing. A billion connected objects in 2010 would reach 48 billion by 2025. To make these tools, raw materials must be extracted and transformed into electronic components. This process results in depletion of mineral resources, pollution and greenhouse gas emissions. The firm makes four recommendations to reduce the impact of digital technology on the environment: reducing the number of connected objects, reducing the number of flat screens, increasing the lifespan of equipment and ecodesign of digital services. While I am aware that we cannot prevent our fellow citizens from living technologically with their time, I would like to ask you the following questions. Have you been able to read the results of the Green IT study? How do you look at these numbers? Will the National Energy-Climate Plan to be submitted to the European Commission at the end of this year address this issue? With which solutions?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u38	Mr President, honourable Member, I am well aware of the significant impact of our digital consumption on our environment. As you say and as highlighted in the Green IT report, CO2 emissions from this sector are huge and a large increase is still expected in the next few years. I am also aware that, as with the energy transition, the digital transition requires a great deal of resources, including rare metals, whose extraction and refining lead to significant pollution in terms of biodiversity loss. These issues are at the heart of my concerns and, within the framework of federal jurisdiction, my administration has been working for several years on the design of electrical and electronic products including the entire IT component. It works in particular within the framework of the Ecodesign Directive, which sets the maximum energy consumption thresholds for products and, more recently, also sets standards for the efficient use of resources. On this point, in particular, my administration is actively involved in the work of the European Centre for Standardization, CEN, to develop product standards. It fits perfectly into my skills. These standards cover aspects of repair, dismantling, component recovery, material recycling and other topics. These horizontally worded standards for several product categories will then be adapted on a case-by-case basis when the criteria are revised by product category. Most of these standards will be available in early 2020. We have also partnered with a Belgian luminaires company that wants to evolve into a new business model that highlights the rental of services rather than the sale of a product. This is the Product and Services model. These business models encourage companies to keep the materials in circulation for the longest time, as they remain owners of these materials. Such experiments allow the identification of practices that can be generalized and applied to other sectors, in particular at the level of IT products. The National Energy-Climate Plan will address this issue through the circular economy. On this point, I asked my administration, for the federal side, to prepare proposals for measures that could succeed the road map "Circular Economy" that I presented in 2016 with the Minister of Economic Affairs, Kris Peeters, since I am co-competent with him in the field of circular economy. A section on ecodesign is of course being developed in the context of these new proposals for measures. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u39	Minister, thank you for your answers. My reply will confine itself to reminding us of the extent of the environmental footprint of digital technology, so that everyone becomes aware of it. It is equivalent to 6,800 TW/h of energy consumed and 1,400 million tonnes of greenhouse gases emitted, to which must be added 7.8 million cubic metres of water – which obviously causes enormous tensions in available stocks. The study sums up this state of affairs with an eloquent image: "If global digital was a country, it would be two to three times the size of France." It's colossal! Among the interesting avenues that you have mentioned, I will add another one - recommended by the report - which is the need to promote the mutualization and substitution of objects. For example, instead of having a modem on each floor of a building, one could image one that provides each apartment on the Internet.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u40	That is the meaning of what I said about the economy of services, rather than a logic of ownership.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u41	That completes your point. In any case, these ideas are part of the easy-to-use solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u42	We agree perfectly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u43	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u44	Minister, a short time ago, the issue of the RTBF We are not pigeons realized a subject on firewood sold in the Brico stores of our country. The wooden pallets are stamped BY, the code for Belarus. This country is located in the Chernobyl region. The team of journalists had tests carried out by Scannix, a company specializing in the detection of radioactivity. The results are straightforward: logs contain caesium 137, an isotope derived solely from nuclear activity. The alert threshold for cesium 137 is currently set at 1,000 becquerels per kilo of material. This isotope is found in concentrations between 300 and 500 becquerels on the dry material. But in the ashes of these logs, the concentration exceeds this threshold. It also seems that the new European threshold will be set at only 100 becquerels per kilo of material. The expert on nuclear safety from AFCN, invited on the RTBF plateau, explained that in the case of firewood, this concentration does not pose a problem for health and the environment. He was quite clear about it. Only, at the end of the interview, to the question whether, for himself, this expert would buy this firewood, he made it clear that he would not buy it for his personal consumption. His words were: "Personally for me the choice will be made quickly". This creates considerable confusion about the real risks of this product. Should we rely on the current European threshold, knowing that a much lower threshold will soon be in force? Or should we rely on the precautionary measure that this expert seems to be advocating, at least for himself? Minister, my questions are as follows. What are the controls on firewood pallets imported into our country? Are you planning to carry out tests complementary to those carried out by the team of journalists? How should we deal with this product and its waste? Is it absolutely safe for health and the environment or should we be careful? Are you planning to apply the precautionary principle and have pallets of wood from Belarus removed from the sale, while an investigation is being conducted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u45	Mr President, Mrs de Laveleye, I would very much like to answer your question, which is very interesting, but the control of radioactivity is not my environmental competence but that of the Minister of the Interior. More specifically, the Federal Agency for Nuclear Control (AFCN) is the competent and independent body that carries out these controls. This public body has also reported on this problem. You can find all the details on the AFCN website in the "Heating Drinks" section. I have the addresses of the site here. My collaborator will give them to you. In addition, I would like to refer you to my colleague in charge of the Interior, Minister Pieter De Crem.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u46	Minister, the question has indeed been sent to Mr. De Crem and I knew his answer. With respect to environmental issues, this is not the first time that you have referred one of my questions to other levels of authority. However, from the point of view of radioactivity, we remain convinced, with the support of the Minister of the Interior, that fairly precise responses must be given to consumers. However, a number of issues remain. I will continue to search for information through the channels to which you refer me. However, it becomes a little frustrating to be slammed from one place to another and ultimately not to have access to the answers requested.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u47	Minister, a Canadian study published on September 25 in Environmental Science & Technology reveals that plastic tea bags release microparticles into water under the influence of heat. The tea industry is increasingly opting for this new container, which tends to replace paper bags. At what cost? Canadian researchers have shown that the number of particles is astronomical. A single tea bag can release up to 2 million plastic particles between 1 and 150 micrometres and up to 15 billion particles less than one micrometre. In total, this represents between 13 and 16 micrograms of plastic that end up in our cups of tea. Canadian scientists have also asked about the impact on our health. They have subjected daphnia – small crustaceans of 1 to 4 mm often used to determine the danger of a chemical – to similar doses of plastic. They survived but had anatomical and behavioural abnormalities. Pending further research, the authors recommend the use of bulk tea and/or paper bags. The pyramidal bags, which are now often found in our tea boxes, are made of nylon, a plastic fiber and non-biodegradable. If their presence has become widespread since the 1990s, it is because they keep the tea leaves intact and require less labor than the cotton bags. These advantages are to be relativized in view of their negative contribution to the environmental footprint of plastic, which is a real scourge. Minister, have you been able to read the results of this study? How do you judge the use of this type of container by the tea industry? The circular economy plan presented in 2016 recommends the elimination of microplastics in products when there is an alternative, which is the case here. What concrete steps could you take in this context?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u48	Mr President, the health effects of materials in contact with food and therefore also the microplastics released by these materials are the responsibility of my colleague from Public Health. Having said that, it is true that we are increasingly aware – I have had the opportunity to take full advantage of it within the framework of my competences – that health and the environment are two policies that need to be pursued more and more together. This is done in a very spontaneous and in-depth way at the level of the administrations, but perhaps not yet enough in the government agreements and in the government teams, while all the questions you ask go in this direction. With regard to the actions I have taken to combat microplastics – which are found everywhere – I would like to point out the signing, on 9 January 2018, of a sectoral agreement with DETIC, the federation which represents almost all the producers of cosmetic and oral products. The aim of this agreement was, instead of proceeding by legislation and imposing a constraint, as is the case in France, to organise a consultation with the whole sector in order to achieve an immediate result at the level of consumer products. The members therefore committed themselves to completely replacing "plastic microbeads in cosmetic rinsing products and oral products by 31 December 2019", i.e. in a few days' time. By primary microplastics, we must understand those that are integrated into products, such as plastic microbeads in exfoliating cosmetics, not to be confused with secondary microplastics that come from the degradation of macroplastics. Here, I don't know what plastic it is. But this is a new practice that is not reassuring at all, given the huge consumption of tea and tea bags. This problem is being studied by my administration. I await the conclusions of this study so that I can take a position and see what I can develop at the beginning of these conclusions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u49	Minister, thank you for your answers. I would also like to thank you for having dealt with the problem. If sectoral consultations produce results, we can only welcome them. Nevertheless, the force of the law should not be deprived when it proves useful. Microplastics and plastic in general are plagues. A study relayed in Le Monde a few days ago indicates that 100% of the rivers and streams studied by researchers are contaminated with microplastics. These microplastics drain molecules that are sometimes unknown to scientists. All of this must therefore be taken seriously. I fully agree with what you have said about the necessary convergences between health and environmental policies, which are closely linked. I will come back to you so that you can communicate to Parliament the results of the analyses and studies that you have commissioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u50	Mr President, Madam Minister, the European legislation on single-use plastic products to which our country must comply by 3 July 2021 requires that bottles marketed in the European Union contain 25% recycled PET in 2025 and 30% in 2030. This new regulation is driving industry to seek innovative solutions. The Spadel Group has recently announced its intention to set up a system for the disposal of plastic bottles. This far-reaching reform should naturally take place after extensive consultation from producers to the recycling sector. If such an important player in the market as Spadel develops this reflection, it is because he questions the quality of recycled PET, noting that selective sorting does not guarantee that used bottles are not mixed with other plastics. On the other hand, let us not be fooled, for companies also the question of the cost of recycled PET which, in this context, should only increase. However, an efficient recycling policy remains more than ever of an absolute necessity. As we know, over the decades, plastic has taken on an increasingly disproportionate place in our lives. World production has increased 20fold since the 1960s, reaching 322 million tonnes in 2015. According to the Commission, it is expected to double again within 20 years. Europe produces about 25 million plastic waste each year. Of these, less than 30% are recovered or recycled. A huge amount of waste is spread in the environment, on land or at sea. Minister, in this context, the Spadel initiative leads me to ask you for some clarification. What do you think of Spadel's proposal and its recrimination of the quality of recycled PET? Do you fear an increase in manufacturing costs? What answer could we provide?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u51	Mr President, honourable Member, I agree with your analysis that the inclusion of recycled PET in virgin bottles will require a series of adaptations that could lead to an increase in recycling costs. Efforts will need to be made to improve quality and reduce contamination of recycled streams. This will involve adapting the design of the bottles to avoid, among other things, certain colours and combinations of materials. The collection and sorting processes will also need to be modified to provide a quality that can be reintroduced into blank bottles. Finally, the manufacturing processes of these cylinders will have to be adapted to avoid the presence of undesirable particles that may negatively affect quality. Therefore, a solution to replace single-use bottles with registered bottles can be an industrially sound choice. From the point of view of resource efficiency, a reuse solution is generally better for the environment than recycling. I recall here the principle of the Lansink hierarchy, the basis of the circular economy. It is a concept to be adapted to the reality of the ground by considering all the environmental and socio-economic impacts. In this context, glass is quite competitive but perhaps not on all points such as cost or weight, etc. At present, I believe that each company needs to assess its situation and take the most appropriate measures. We must not lose sight of the fact that this initiative comes into effect in more than five years and that there is an abundance of research in this area. So there is hope. With regard to consumer costs, it may be thought that there could be an additional cost, but today a series of indirect costs due to wild waste are in any case borne by the communities and ultimately by the citizens. These two situations must be balanced. In the polluter-pays' logic, it is perfectly supposed to carry these costs over to consumers of the product in question rather than to the whole community. Finally, there are already criteria for assessing the recyclability of packagings. This is NBN EN 14329 (Packaging-Requirements for material-recyclable packaging). One could say that this part of Action 14 of the Action Plan for a Circular Economy is covered. However, I believe that this standard should be updated. Discussions on the revision of the essential requirements of the Packages Directive are taking place in the European fora. It is hoped that they will lead to a standard that will allow packaging to be recycled better. A word about my experience. Together with Kris Peeters, we launched the 21 measures for the circular economy in Belgium. Europe had not yet taken a position on the circular economy, and we were waiting for it to do so, which it did afterwards. We decided to present these measures in the port of Brussels, with companies specialised in reflection, on the components of the various products, so that at producer level there would be a greater awareness in the choice of materials so that recycling would be effective. Indeed, tons of plastics, to take only this example that you bring with your question, are not easily recyclable. I am talking about black plastics, golden plastics, the caps of these plastic bottles, depending on whether they are made in such or such plastic quality. There is an infinite variety. I found out about that. Therefore, it is obvious that a high level of awareness can also be an interesting vector for producers. Spadel made this reflection, but it could be generalized. How? With a European standard, it is easy, since it covers a huge territory and Belgium is not the only one concerned. Many of the consumer products we buy come from elsewhere than in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u52	Indeed, some plastics are difficult to recycle, such as coloured plastics, etc. A perverse evolution (or a false idea) can be seen through containers that value manufacturing with less plastic but still have a layer of plastic between two layers of cardboard. Recycling professionals say they are worse than pure plastic containers because they are even more difficult to recycle. Attention must therefore be paid to the evolution that industry can follow on this issue. Sometimes when you want to do well, you do worse. Then, Madam Minister, you talked about the liability of the potential polluter end consumer and recycling, when we know that our recycling capabilities are very limited, even if they need to be continuously improved. The more I move forward on the issue of plastic, the more I think that sooner or later, we will no longer be able to save on the question of producers, as the amount of plastic produced will become unmanageable, in terms of recycling and individual consumer behaviour. Coca-Cola sells 4,000 plastic bottles per second. It doesn't fit into the funnel anymore! We must dare to ask ourselves the question of the producers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u53	Madam Secretary, there's news hot off the needle. Indeed, European grid operators warned this morning of an imminent shortage of electricity, just as they did last year, when the temperature drops below 5 °C this winter, there is little wind and again unexpected nuclear power stations would fail. I admit this is a sausage case scenario, but there is another warning. Belgium will again become heavily dependent on imports and perhaps the switch-off plan will reappear. So this question is certainly pertinent. Maasbracht's power station in the Netherlands has long dreamed of connecting to the Belgian network via an underground cable to Kinrooi in Belgian Limburg. This is also the wish of Nuhma, the climate company in which the Limburg municipalities play an important role. This is how people want to import power. The Dutch Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, however, sees this differently. He noted that the plant was of strategic importance, since it represented 6% of the 22,000 MW of Dutch active assets. In the Netherlands, the last four coal plants will close by 2030. At that time two thirds of the power in the Netherlands will be generated with sun and wind, which means that there could be a supply problem in winter. So he tells you he doesn't really like these plans. Madam Minister, could you explain a little more about the refusal of the Dutch Government? It says that we have to work through interconnection rather than direct connection. What steps have you taken in relation to the Dutch Government? What view does high voltage system operator Elia have on these developments? The Penta countries hold structural consultations. By 15 November, the Penta countries had to comment on the CRM. Can you explain all these matters?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u54	Madam Minister, it is not the first time that the Maasbrachtcentrale is on the agenda or that it is being discussed. A few years ago, CD&V was the first one to effectively link that power plant to our grid, within the framework of the shutdown plan that was there and the blackout that threatened it. Mr Ravyts has already outlined the situation quite well, so I will not repeat that. I would particularly like to mention the letter you received from your Dutch colleague at the beginning of November. He is concerned and is angry about the fact that there would be plans to link the Maasbrachtcentrale to the Belgian network. What did you think of that letter? What conclusions do you draw from your Dutch colleague's letter? Following that letter, have you also organised a consultation with your Dutch colleague to see to what extent the Netherlands might possibly oppose an exclusive connection of that power station to the Belgian network? Can you give us a more detailed explanation? Has there been a consultation and what are its conclusions? Have you also had a meeting with the owner of the Maasbrachtcentrale and with Elia? If so, can you explain what was agreed? Is there a problem, in their view, to effectively integrate the power plant into the Belgian CRM system, if it gets through? Finally, if a cable were not possible, could the problem not be solved via interconnection? What is your view on this? I'm looking forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u55	Madam Minister, on 6 November it was announced in the Belgian and Dutch newspapers that Minister Wiebes opposed the possible connection of the Claus C plant to the Belgian network. The argument is that the central power station is strategic for the Netherlands. You stated in the press that you respect the message of your colleague Mr Wiebes, that you would inform Elijah and talk to your colleague Mr Wiebes. Shortly afterwards, we had a hearing here with the Suivi Committee on CRM. There the FPS Economy stated that it was a business letter in which the Netherlands pointed out the need for domestic capacity. They would have said that they preferred interconnection instead of direct connection. The FPS Economy further stated that the CRM system was explained to the Penta countries on 29 September and that a written response was expected by 15 November at the latest. Madam Secretary, what was the content of Minister Wiebes' letter? What was his exact question? Has it already been answered and if so, what was the answer? Have the Penta countries given a written response? Can you deliver these to the committee? What information did Elia provide you with? Was a legal and regulatory analysis made of the connection of a foreign power station to the Belgian network? Are agreements and/or treaties necessary between Member States? Are there any changes needed to other regulations such as the technical regulation or the connection contract?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u56	It is very complex to work in the new system for oral questions. The Chamber has modernised that, but we have deteriorated.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u57	In his letter, Minister Wiebes explained to me his position on the direct connection of the Maasbracht plant and asked to take this into account in the decision-making process with regard to the possible participation of the plant. He's not angry. He pointed out, however, that the central Belgium would prefer to deliver via the connectors rather than via a direct connection. He cites three reasons for this. Firstly, the gradual closure of all coal plants in the Netherlands. Mr Warmoes, Mr Wiebes does not want to reduce the number of gas plants. Secondly, the stability of the Dutch electricity grid. Thirdly, there is the new European regulation imposing an increase in the volume of interconnection capacity, which is open to market players. My position is well known to Dutch colleagues: I am implementing the law adopted by Parliament in April. It stipulates that I shall create the framework for this participation. The results of the consultation of the Penta countries are currently being processed by my administration and will soon be published on the website of the FPS Economy, together with the consultation report, insofar as they are not classified as confidential. I can confirm that we have received three responses from the Netherlands, in particular because of the administration, the TSO and the Energy Netherlands. Both the Ministry and TenneT respond on the direct participation of foreign capacity in Maasbracht. The Ministry responds briefly by referring to the concerns that have been communicated by administrative and political means over the past few months, for which I refer to my answer to your first question. TenneT takes up the same arguments and deals with them more comprehensively. Finally, the Energy Netherlands does not specifically comment on the direct participation of foreign capacity, but notes that it does not see blocking issues in the overall x-border design. More consultation between my administration and Elijah took place on November 26th. In any case, we are following the case closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u58	The legal analysis is under way. A number of gaps and obstacles to direct foreign participation in existing legislation have been identified. It is currently being analysed how these can be eliminated by amending the legislative framework and/or by contractual provisions. Furthermore, the implementing decisions of the CRM and the agreements to be concluded between the TSOs and regulators for foreign participation will always have to take into account the possibility of direct foreign capacity.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u59	Madam Secretary, thank you for the clarification. I give the floor to Mr Ravyts for his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u60	Mr President, Minister, the press does outline the image that Maas brought to you could be a dreamed gas power station. Should the Claus C plant run or produce at full capacity, this production would account for 15% of supplies in Belgium. I'm gonna let you tell me. It's an existing gas plant. The CRM wants new gas plants. You know what would be more expensive and cheaper. Mrs Dierick might also mention later that Maasbracht seemed like a dreamed alternative. I note what other Members have also outlined, namely that there are currently gaps in the existing legislation in the area of direct interconnection. The story continues within the CRM context. We will continue to follow it closely. Of course, the operator, the German energy company RWE, dreams of the Belgian capacity rate. For the hours when a power plant doesn't run, there are subsidies in our system. There is no such thing in the Netherlands. Of course, it's also about commerce.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u61	Mr President, Minister, I will be very brief. Thank you for the clarification. It's a good thing there's been a meeting. It is also possible to communicate with letters, but it is always better to enter into dialogue. I hope you don't stick sticks in each other's wheels and understand each other's situation. I look forward to the additional legislation on CRM. If there are any gaps in the legislation, we must certainly try to get rid of them. Parliament can also play a role in this. I'm also glad there's been a meeting with Elijah. That consultation took place yesterday, on 26 November 2019. It would be nice if we could also get feedback on Elijah's opinion on the matter. Is it possible to get feedback on this? Otherwise, we shall put a new question to that effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u62	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I believe that your position is the only correct one, namely that you, as a competent minister, are implementing the law as it has been adopted. In other words, as legislators, we must ensure that the implementing decisions are ready. As far as external capacity is concerned, there are two possibilities: direct connection or indirect connection. I believe that it will ultimately be up to the market actors themselves to look at what mechanism they want to use. Do they want to offer via a direct connection or through an indirect connection? We're just making the design. It is up to market operators to see how they deal with it. I understand the position of the Dutch colleagues, but as far as interconnections are concerned, some critical questions can be asked. The interconnections can grow, but if there is no capacity, they cannot be used either. They have one position, we have the other, and eventually we will have to find each other. We will not then have the last word, I believe. We have opted for a market system, with a capacity within the market, whereby we provide a framework for the market, which then examines whether or not it wants to use the system. The choice will ultimately lie with the operator, who will consider what is or is not possible. I do welcome the constructive approach in this regard. As long as the discussion doesn't get up and there's no anger on both sides, it's okay. In the end, we have a shared and a common interest, namely to ensure security of supply, here and elsewhere. We can help each other in that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u63	Question No 55001445C by Mr Cogolati is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u64	Madam Minister, in its new annual report, the Commission on Nuclear Facilities clearly states that there is an urgent need to revise the law of 11 April 2003, as the shortcomings and gaps in the current text continue to pose a significant risk which could lead to the Belgian people in the future having to bear, in full or in part, the costs of decommissioning nuclear power plants and/or the management of irradiated nuclear fuels. It is also recalled that the law of 11 April 2003 in its present form only meets the minimum obligations arising from various texts and conventions of international law. The Committee on Nuclear Facilities is also concerned by a new scenario on the cost of the disposal of the most radioactive nuclear waste and the fees available. Oral questions have already been put in plenary. It was mostly colleague Cogolati who called the alarm bell. In de pers hebt u het volgende gezegd: I am obviously not opposed to a greater mobilisation of funds, with a decrease in loans to the parent house – but it is not up to me to decide. You then, of course, referred to the operator and to the 75% that SYNATOM can use for loans to the operator. How exactly do you intend to strengthen the framework for nuclear commissions and reform the management of SYNATOM, as well as strengthen the functioning of the Commission for Nuclear Facilities? I am new to this House, Mr President, but the Minister has been announcing these matters for a few months now. I know that there is a bill tabled by Green colleagues in spring 2019. There was also a bill from the MR. What's in there? How is it that these proposals are not dealt with as a priority here? If it is constantly said to be an important issue, how come these proposals are not on the committee's agenda as a matter of priority? It can of course be my naivety as a starter in this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u65	Madam Minister, I am also concerned about the content of the report, in particular the recommendation of the ONDRAF to take into account the amount of EUR 10.7 billion as the basis for calculating the provisions following the establishment of a new reference scenario for landfilling waste. The Commission, in its text, is also attacking a study published last year by Greenpeace, which called for the transfer of provisions to a public body. Comparisons would be "partial, imprecise and not always based on comparable situations" but the report does not cite examples. This report was also concerned that Belgium's entire storage area could be considered following ONDRAF's decision in 2018 to propose geological storage for high-level and long-lived nuclear waste, a decision that did not accompany a host rock proposal despite extensive research on the Boom clay layer. Minister, how long is the landfill postponed? What impact will this have on the amount of provisions? Has ONDRAF been able to identify a place that would be suitable for this waste? Are there any formulas that would allow the transfer to a public body?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u66	Mr President, I propose that, given the time and the length of my reply, we close our discussions today in committee. I am at the disposal of Parliament to continue the answers to the questions at another time. Mr Ravyts, my answer was drawn up in French. You have to hang on because it's very long and it's a very complicated matter. First of all, I would say that the bills exist. In April 2019, the MR co-signed with other parties a bill that was originally a government text but could no longer be introduced as a bill because the government was in day-to-day business. It is therefore up to all parliamentarians to take up the existing texts, whatever they may be and wherever they come from, to table them and put them on the committee's agenda. You tell me that you do not understand why some say that this is a priority and that they do not act accordingly by filing texts. I have to think the same way. These texts exist and I am ready to work on them. But it is up to Parliament to address this priority, if it considers it to be one. Here we are talking about the geological storage of medium- and high-level nuclear waste (waste B and C) for which the ONDRAF estimated last year a reference scenario cost ranging from 8 to 10.7 billion euros. It is this portion of waste that is the least important but has the longest radioactivity in time (hundreds of thousands of years) on which the ONDRAF looks and establishes a baseline scenario ranging from 8 to 10.7 billion euros, depending on whether or not the different uncertainties on the baseline scenario are included. So these are prospective analyses. On 28 September 2018, the Board of Directors of ONDRAF decided on this subject that, I quote: "In accordance with the precautionary principle, the Board of Directors recommends that the Commission for Nuclear Supplies – which is the prudential body – take into account on a transitional basis the amount of EUR 10.7 billion in value 2017 for the fixing of the amounts necessary for provisions for the dismantling of nuclear power plants and for the management of irradiated fissile material in these plants." I would add that I insisted that we go to the highest scenario in terms of foresight and select the highest figure. I would also point out that there are three bodies: ONDRAF, which makes technical assessments and links financial assessments to these technical assessments, for the treatment of waste and the dismantling of plants – ONDRAF makes recommendations to the Commission on Nuclear Supplies; the Commission on Nuclear Supplies, the supervisory body, which verifies the existence, sufficiency and availability of nuclear supplies throughout the process which will last until 2120; SYNATOM, which is a subsidiary of Electrobel, in which these provisions are housed. At the end of 2018, provisions within the nuclear supply company SYNATOM amounted to more than 11 billion euros. As you can read in the annual report of the Commission on Nuclear Supplies, the CNP, these provisions take over the provisions for the dismantling of nuclear power plants to the tune of EUR 4.9 billion, i.e. the cutting of concretes and plant buildings and for the management of irradiated fissile material in these plants, such as fuel, an amount of EUR 6.1 billion. These provisions are updated annually like any insurance or pension fund. That's how it works. Money is used to estimate the amount on the basis of a discount factor so that it can be sufficient at the time it is needed, taking into account interest rates and devaluation. This update is supplemented with an annual amount from the nuclear supply company SYNATOM. In order to ensure optimal coverage of nuclear waste costs, ONDRAF must provide the best estimate possible on the basis of current technical knowledge. That's his role. And it periodically carries out this exercise of re-evaluation of future costs. It is important for ONDRAF to develop a baseline financial scenario for waste, taking into account all the technical and regulatory elements known to date in the world. It is on the basis of this ONDRAF scenario that the waste charges are calculated, which must be paid at the time the waste is transferred to ONDRAF, which is also technically responsible for the treatment of the waste. It's important to know. Once the waste is transferred to ONDRAF and the payment has been made, with this money ONDRAF uses a mechanism by which correction is always possible. It is the application of the guiding principles set out in the ONDRAF Act that results in ONDRAF being able to demand surpluses from the waste producer if the amounts paid are not sufficient for processing. To answer a sub-question by Mr. Ben Achour, at present, ONDRAF is preparing the national policy decision, which is now limited, since it is a policy in phases, to the question of whether or not the principle of geological storage is maintained, without deciding in which host rock the waste will be housed. So this choice is not made at this stage. We decide whether or not we will bury this waste in the soil, without saying in which layer of the soil it will be done. This national policy is organized in stages in order to ensure a broad and adequate societal base. Step-by-step progress enables the public to be consulted at each stage in the widest possible way so that acceptance of the file is as broad as possible at each of these stages. It is a first act – we are only at the beginning – that will be followed by other decisions. One of them will focus on the choice of host geological formations, thus the layer that will accommodate the waste and the place where it will be deposited. Indeed, the basement does not have all the geological qualities required. Some places are more interesting than others. ONDRAF is currently preparing the strategic environmental impact study and associated consultation, as I requested. The Nuclear Supplies Commission – which is our independent, expert supervisory body – looks at the existence, sufficiency and availability of supplies paid by nuclear power plant operators. It continues this work, in particular through its three-year review exercise, as provided for in the Act of 11 April 2003 on provisions for the dismantling of nuclear power plants. Its opinion, which is given to SYNATOM and to which it must comply, takes into account more criteria than the cost of storing waste alone. This opinion of the CPN, which takes place every three years, is expected by the end of the year. As soon as I get it, we can discuss it. For me, it is clear that the Nuclear Provisions Act deserves a number of adjustments in order to complement and strengthen our legal framework. Moreover, it is the terms of reference that the government had given me and that I respected through a text. The aim is to ensure the availability of nuclear supplies at the appropriate time and to strengthen prudential control and transparency of the nuclear supply system in our country. The solution that is proposed in one of the questions is an approach, but not the only one available. As you know, I have worked on proposals for improvement on the basis of proposals from the CPN. I have also included in my reasoning the proposals of the Nuclear Supplies Commission as I worked to strengthen the legislative framework. The proposals of the Commission on Nuclear Supplies were limited to improving loan guarantees, while the Council of Ministers approved on 26 July 2018, at first reading, a preliminary draft law aimed at strengthening the legal framework. As a first step, the Commission on Nuclear Supplies has done a great deal of work to strengthen the guarantee of loans. As you know, this has been said by one of you, and it is also written in the law, SYNATOM can lend back to the operator up to 75% of the nuclear supplies housed in its subsidiary. The idea is that we need guarantees on loans. In order to ensure that the money can be recalled at the appropriate time, the Nuclear Supplies Commission must have a view of the loans so granted in order to be sure that these loans are guaranteed and that they will be able to return when they are called. This first work which had been done by the CPN, we validated it and approved it at first reading in the Council of Ministers on 26 July 2018. At the same time, however, the Council of Ministers considered that this work could be further improved and that the framework text of the Act of 11 April 2003 should be further strengthened on other aspects: transparency and the functioning of the work on the preparation of nuclear supplies. It is for this reason that I have prepared a supplementary text, which, as you know, has been introduced as a bill. I come to the study entitled SYNATOM - Critical Analysis of the Belgian Nuclear Fuels Company, commented by Greenpeace and carried out by Zero Emission Solutions, published in October 2018. The study was based on a comparison of the cost of decommissioning nuclear power plants, the cost of spent fuel management and the management of nuclear supplies, both in Belgium and in other countries. It also included several recommendations for the protection of nuclear supplies, and proposals for the transfer of nuclear supplies to a public body. This was a question that one of you raised in his question. I asked, at the time of the release of this study, for an opinion on it from the Commission des réservations nucléaires (CPN). The conclusions of the opinion, which I have received from the Commission, have also been reflected in the annual report of the Commission on Nuclear Supplies, which is available to you. I remind you of these conclusions. This is what the CPN says. As regards the first part, i.e. the comparison of the elements concerning the costs of dismantling nuclear power plants in Belgium and abroad, the exercise is very partial and imprecise and includes some inaccurate elements, especially since Greenpeace, through its Zero Emission Solutions Sapitator, makes comparisons which are not appropriate. Indeed, the comparison of the costs of dismantling and managing spent fuels across countries is a delicate exercise with very different situations as regards the type of plants, the scope of the nuclear programme, the number, type and power of reactors for example, as well as the waste management policy with or without reprocessing of fuels, or the division of final responsibilities between operators and public authorities. This is not new, but it must be recalled. International institutions such as the OECD or the European Commission have already done this kind of exercise, and have always come to the same conclusion. Every country, every system and every nuclear programme is different. It is therefore impossible, if not totally unrealistic, to raise the average costs of dismantling and managing spent fuels on the basis of this comparison. The Commission on Nuclear Supplies thus informed me that the figures used as a comparison in this report for the United Kingdom included, for example, the entire military nuclear programme of the country. This is the partial, inaccurate, imprecise and inappropriate aspect of comparisons. The Commission on Nuclear Supplies continues on the recommendation to transfer the provisions to a public body rather than SYNATOM. According to the CPN, the General Administration of the Treasury has, of course, experience in financial management, but it must be noted that the management (i.e. the investment made to maintain the same level of provision, keep its value to money) of nuclear supplies requires a specific management of assets for which neither the Treasury nor the ONDRAF nor any other Belgian public structure currently has the experience. Thus, transferring the management of funds to ONDRAF (an example among others) also means assuming the required return to preserve the future value of the provisions. Currently, investments are made in public debt securities, pursuant to the Royal Decree of 1 May 2006, which sets out the modalities for the operation of ONDRAF. In order to take account of this lack of return on investments by ONDRAF, it would be necessary to re-evaluate their current amounts. This transfer also raises the question of compliance with the so-called "four eyes" principle, between the one who controls the provisions and the one who uses them. On the other hand, it should be borne in mind that, in the case of a transfer to the Treasury or ONDRAF, nuclear provisions will be consolidated in the accounts of the State, which, in practice, could severely limit the availability of such provisions and their yield. It is imperative to limit the use of provisions to their intended purpose. It's called ringfencing. Operational expenditure management is much less easy if the Fund is incorporated into the State budget because there is no longer any amount dedicated exclusively to nuclear supplies. This is also accompanied by a transfer of responsibility at the financial level to the State whose scope should not be underestimated. The transfer to a national fund – a limited fund within the State budget, which would be called the National Nuclear Reserves Fund – which would be specially created for this purpose in line, for example, with the Norwegian Sovereign Fund (an example in that country), certainly preserves managerial independence and avoids the amounts mobilized being off-the-shelf for the Belgian economy while being likely to yield a correct return. However, its implementation would quite rightly take some time, about five years, requiring the installation of a new organisation, already available to the CPN and an organisation with very advanced skills. It would also be necessary to check how this dedicated fund would be considered in relation to the State accounts. Would it be part of what is called the SEC impact, yes or no? This leads also to a transfer of financial responsibility to the State, which may not be desirable. These three approaches will in any case require adequate and independent prudential control, therefore outside the State, in order to ensure the existence, sufficiency and availability of nuclear supplies. You're talking about outsourcing the funds and placing them in the state domain. That may be what Greenpeace's study advocates, but that is not what the Committee on Nuclear Supplies, which is expert and independent, and which I have never had to complain about. I would remind you that I have provided this Commission with a higher and substantial amount of money, which had never been done, in order to ensure in its head the necessary work to be done. This amounts to between 300 and 500 million, which is not bad and will enable the Commission to carry out the financial studies and the work it has to do under the provisions. As for the government's action on the safe management of nuclear power supplies and their prudential supervision, which is a highly regal area, this action must be carried out in the same way as in other areas such as the banking, insurance and pension funds sector, whose regulation and prudential supervision have greatly increased in recent years. For this I would refer you to all the rules that make the control of these organs more difficult. This is Solvency II, etc. Ensuring the availability of nuclear power supplies is what the government has achieved successfully over the past five years. I give you a few examples. The government has ensured that provisions increase with the actual cost estimates made by ONDRAF. The provisions have never increased as in the last four years. It's a success. They increased by more than 4 billion euros between the end of 2014 and the end of 2018, as I have already had the opportunity to tell you in plenary on 14 November 2019. The cost estimate, i.e. costing, of future ONDRAF waste geological storage projects has been thoroughly revised from €3.2 billion to €10.7 billion today. I'm taking over the whole story here. So this is really a very important step of 7.5 billion more. We have followed in this respect the high recommendations of ONDRAF, which also works with the Commission des réservations nucléaires (CPN) using a basis of calculation for the re-evaluation exercises of the provisions. The discount rate has been drastically reduced by the CPN. This discount rate had not changed until 2013 and from the moment we entered this issue, we changed it downwards to reflect the reality of interest rates and the current market, as seen in the insurance or pension fund sector. While the legislation provided for an operating budget for the LWOP since 2003, which was largely obsolete, for the first time in fifteen years, I wanted and obtained from the government to organize important operating resources for the NPC. I told you. It should be borne in mind that these means of operation are borne by SYNATOM, not by the State budget. In short, it is a request of the State, but it is not settled by it. Finally, I have spoken extensively about the bill that I have drafted and that strengthens the legal framework. With regard to the revision of discount rates, we certainly do not have to be ashamed of other countries such as France or Switzerland – where they are higher than in Belgium, which does better than in terms of governance. We are truly a pioneer country in this field. Looking forward, in addition to strengthening the legal framework and the means of action of the CPN, it will be necessary – at the latter's request – to reflect on the professionalisation and sustainability of its competences by assisting it with a small permanent expert structure. The governance of SYNATOM, which is the nuclear supply company, should continue to be strengthened. In addition, it is important that the future full-year government continue in the direction set by the current government, in order to give more resources to the NPC and, consequently, to the prudential control of the provisions. I've got a lot of things left to tell you. However, if you think I have answered your questions, I will stop there and we will continue another day. I have a collaborator who is very specialized in this field and also very prolix. He gave me three more pages of details. If you agree, we will discuss this at another committee meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u67	Thank you, minister, another possibility would be for you to send us the document. In any case, your presentation was particularly interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u68	Mr President, I will check if there are any repetitions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u69	Madam Minister, thank you for this very detailed answer, which I will have to read again. I'm glad you share the same wonder with me. You also mentioned 75% of the facilities that SYNATOM may lend to the nuclear operators. Is there enough bail for those loans? This is a very important aspect that concerns colleagues very much. You have indicated that the wishful thinking of some Members here to include that fund in the public budget raises many questions. You've been thinking about that for a long time. In the context of an oral question, I cannot go into this further, but we have already had a preliminary reduction in future debates.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u70	Mr. Ben Achour is no longer here, but I assume he's got an answer to his main questions or is waiting for the document. Thank you, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen. I will close this oral question-and-answer session.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u71	Mr President, I am still here and my question is on the agenda. I would therefore like to ask my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u72	I understood that the meeting would last until 12.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u73	Mr President, we must agree. If I answer the Member's question, I have to do it for the others too. I have thirty-nine questions today and I am only at the twelfth. You understand we're not gonna make it. I was proposing to postpone to another sitting the rest of the questions since I came to almost half of the questions that were asked to me today.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u74	Mr President, perhaps it is an option for us to start our questioning a little earlier than 10.30 a.m. If we don't, we'll never get there.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u75	I am not the real chairman here, but I agree with you: 10.30 a.m. is late.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, my question is on item 14. This is a question that was tabled on 14 July. Mr Verduyckt's question has been added. If there is a written answer, can we get it now?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u77	I also have another question that has been converted into a written question, but it has been in the Minister's cabinet for three months now. I don't know if that's customary? I don't think so. That question is about the Energy Transition Fund. I would also like an answer to that. I have asked the committee secretariat to turn it into another oral question, but it must not be done according to the rules of the game. Not for me, but I would have liked to have an answer to that question. I think it's an oversight. We're going to try to fix this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u78	This concerns item 14 on the agenda, that is to say questions put together. 55001654C) by Mrs Creemers and Mr Verduyckt, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats (Christian Democrats) and European Madam Minister, can you pass on the answer that has been prepared to those questions to the questioners?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u79	I will now give the written answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u80	Does everyone agree that the minister will answer only question No. 55001745C by Mrs. Van der Straeten?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u81	Madam Secretary, I will put my question as briefly as possible. The long-term strategy should be submitted by 1 January 2020 and the National Energy and Climate Plan should be consistent with this. In accordance with Article 10 of the Climate Regulation, a public consultation is required.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u82	I understand you want to ask the question now, but I said earlier that I was passing the federal part of the PNEC this Friday.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u83	This is not about the PNEC.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u84	Yeah, but it's connected. The work is done at the same time and is in progress. So I can't answer you now. I prefer to deal with this point at our exchange of views on 3 December next.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u85	Of which act.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic059x.u86	Your question will remain in the order of the agenda and will be answered next time.
