ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1013x.u1	Mr President, Minister, we heard this morning that the Conference of Presidents had decided to block the registration of questions from the moment of the fall of the government until 2:00 p.m. today. Around 20 December, I submitted a request for a committee meeting to be held on the non-compliance of convictions in the Fortis case. We also tabled a question yesterday, around 11 a.m., as required, on the teenage pimps, but that question was not added to today's agenda either. How are we gonna fix that? After all, I have two questions, one on the Fortis case 14 days ago and the other on the teenage pimps, which is now very topical and on which perhaps other colleagues have also put questions. I received a phone call from the administration this morning, which is bored that this question has not been asked. If I wanted to ask one question today, it was that question about the teenage pimps. How are we gonna fix that? Apparently, the questions are only unblocked from 14:00. As a result, two of my questions that I really wanted to ask are not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1013x.u2	It is a decision of the Conference of Presidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1013x.u3	I understand that, but I have two floating questions now. They will be postponed until next time, but they are actually very topical now. Are there many members who are in that case?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1013x.u4	It'll be for next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1013x.u5	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, of course I wish you all a wonderful year. Minister, I introduced this issue in August 2018, which relates to an order you made last year, following which local and federal police investigators can now infiltrate the web to counter crime on the Internet. This measure will enable police officers to establish, possibly under false identity, contacts with persons for whom there are strong presumptions of guilt with respect to offences punishable by one year's imprisonment: drug trafficking and arms trafficking, possession of child pornography, etc. In short, it is extremely serious crimes that are targeted. Therefore, Minister, my questions will be simple. What provisional assessment do you draw from the implementation of the Order? On this basis, what objectives do you assign to the administration? What is the follow-up to this provision? How does police training work? Have any officers been or will they be recruited for this purpose? Finally, what is the timetable for your work?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1013x.u6	Kir, the Royal Order was issued on November 19, 2018. I would point out that Internet infiltration is a new investigative measure that differs from conventional infiltration in two aspects. On the one hand, the conditions are more flexible since, for example, it is no longer necessary to belong to a special unit to carry out such an operation. On the other hand, it is more framed, since it takes place exclusively on the Internet and all contacts must be registered, thus providing a major guarantee in terms of the rights of the defence. The order lays down the conditions applicable to members of the police services in order to be able to carry out this measure. In essence, it provides for the need to be the holder of the research patent, to be specifically appointed by the head of the body or by the Director General of the Judicial Police and to have undergone appropriate training. Apart from special units, which already receive infiltration training, the implementation of the measure requires staff to receive the new training planned. Its preparation obviously did not await the publication of the royal decree. The IVI training (virtual interaction - virtual interactie) is part of the new three-level training course in terms of Internet research, which will soon be the subject of an accreditation file of the National Police Academy. In concrete terms, and since the agents concerned will have to take two other basic and intermediate training modules in the past, the first training on Internet infiltration is expected to begin in the first half of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1013x.u7	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1013x.u8	Minister, according to a study by the Wildlife Trade Monitoring Network, international trade in wild species is one of the most lucrative markets in the world. It is also one of the main causes for the dramatic decline of wild animal populations, as demonstrated by the latest Living Planet Report. In addition, trade also increasingly threatens the health and socio-economic stability of countries. Due to high revenues and low risk debt securities, illicit trafficking is now among the top ten most profitable cross-border crime sectors in the world. Illegal species trafficking, together with other forms of environmental crime, is currently the largest source of income for armed groups worldwide. With its central location, Belgium also occupies a key position. Belgium has one of the fifteen busiest airports and one of the most important ports in the EU. Belgium is the largest legal importer of reptile products in the EU. Especially meat from the Nile crocodile for the domestic and European market is a frequent issue here. The huge quantities of legally traded species are an indication that illegal trade in and through our country is taking on significant proportions. It is striking that there are very few seizures compared to the large quantities of imports of wild meat. Customs personnel at Zaventem airport carry out targeted checks once a month on, for example, meat brought with them by passengers. In addition, it also conducts sporadic and random actions on cargo cargoes. In 2017, customs seized 2 200 kilograms of meat and with 7 passengers 28 kilograms of bush meat. But it is estimated that much more illegal meat is actually introduced into our country. In addition to the fact that much more controls should be carried out, sanctions should also be implemented effectively. The introduction of bush meat is subject to prison sentences of up to two years and fines of up to 3 000 euros. Persecution usually stays out, because the bush meat first has to undergo a DNA analysis, before it can be certain that it is indeed forbidden hunting meat. In the last four years, only one report has been drawn up for the smuggling of a crocodile head. Firstly, how do you explain the discrepancy between the fact that Belgium is one of the most important markets in the illegal trade in animal species and the number of prosecutions in this respect? Secondly, not only should customs and other inspection services carry out more efficient controls, but, according to the WWF, there would also be a need for better administrative and criminal prosecution by strengthening inspection services and the judiciary, for example, by specialised magistrates and courts. Could you consider that proposal? Thirdly, what measures will you take to ensure that prosecution of such infringements becomes a higher priority in the courts and courts and that serious crimes are recognised with sufficiently high penalties?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1013x.u9	Mrs Lambrecht, I cannot ask for new figures in the context of an oral question. However, I can refer you to the answer given by the statistical analysts of the Public Prosecutor's Office to a previous written question by Jean-Jacques De Gucht on the number of minutes relating to such facts. The Pvs concern both international trade and the mere possession of endangered species of wild fauna and flora and ivory. In 2015, 2017, around 130 000 PVs were drawn up annually. However, for 2017, it should be noted that a large number of PVs were prepared for healthy food supplements of the same type of protected cactus. Those figures show that the parking lots follow up each year between 37 and 58 % of these CVs. This is done in a variety of ways, ranging from an immediate collection, a praetorian trial, an administrative sanction or a friendly settlement to a subpoena. Belgian law does not provide for environmental procurators or judges. However, the organisation of the Public Prosecutor's Office ensures in practice that the files on environmental criminal law, including CITES crimes, are dealt with by specialised prosecutors. The expertise network Environment with subnetworks in Brussels, Flanders and Wallonia provides support to those parquet magistrates. The seat also organises itself in practice so that such files would be dealt with by specialised magistrates. This is done, among other things, through the case-sharing regulations, which allow these cases to be centralised in a department of the court of first instance, for example in Antwerp, Luxembourg, Namur and West Flanders. The College of Attorneys General, in consultation with the various departments, sets priorities for prosecution. As I mentioned, the necessary attention is being paid to this type of crime, including through the support of the expertise network. However, the seriousness of the case and the chances of success of criminal proceedings shall be considered on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1013x.u10	Minister, we cannot be proud of being prosecuted in 37% to 58% of cases. You should be able to shoulder the burden of increasing that percentage. We should be happy now, after all, if half of the cases are prosecuted. Those, of course, are not good grades.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1013x.u11	Minister, in July 2018, the pilot project around the transition houses was launched. You state in your 2019 policy paper that the award and start-up of the first transition houses is planned for 2019. About the procedure, I find the following on the website of the FPS Justice: "Interested candidates were requested to submit a file by Wednesday 31 October 2018. An internal expert committee will then make an analysis and possible pre-selection of tenderers. All candidates will be invited by 5 October 2018 at the latest."I suppose it must be 5 November 2018 "by mail received a message whether or not to be invited to the further negotiations." The selected candidates shall be invited to bilateral discussions in which all documents submitted shall be further discussed. The number of negotiations will not be set in advance and will depend on the progress and the input received. The selected parties will then have the final opportunity to submit final documents or a tender to the client. In the end, a reasoned decision will be made announcing the choice of the tenderer (s) who may or may operate the transition house." Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, has the timing of the procedure been respected so far? Secondly, how many applications were submitted and how many tenderers were invited for further negotiations? Thirdly, will the reasoned final decision be taken before the end of 2018? Fourthly, when and to what extent will local authorities be involved in making the final decision? I am thinking here, for example, of the urban permits that will have to be granted. Implanting transition homes in the neighbourhood is crucial and local government is best placed to advise on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1013x.u12	Mrs Lambrecht, the timing of the procedure for the transition houses has so far been respected. 15 applications were received, which were already the subject of an initial analysis. In December, the retained candidates were invited to explain their project further. On this basis, a second selection will be held, giving candidates the opportunity to refine their project. This selection will be planned this month with a view to a decision in the first semester of 2019. Contacts with all local partners are one of the points that have been worked out in each candidacy. It is up to tenderers to ensure that they have all the licences. In addition to local actors, other actors, such as the neighbourhood, should be involved. Candidates clearly show that most tenderers have already established these contacts.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1013x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1013x.u14	Mr. President, Minister, my best wishes for the new year, also in your new functions as the Régie des Bâtiments. I think this is an opportunity, especially for prisons. A year ago, I was asking you, and your colleague in charge of public health, about the lack of doctors in our prisons. Today, we learn that the prison of Marche-en-Famenne, under the impetus of the province of Luxembourg, will embark on a pilot project of telemedicine. I have already asked your colleague Mrs Maggie De Block a question about this. Connected devices will offer sick inmates access via video conferencing. In France, some prisons are already equipped with similar devices, which allows them to avoid time-consuming and costly movements of prisoners to hospital centres in the absence of doctors in institutions. I have also been president of a police zone in the past, and I know the costs for police areas of such transfers. Minister, have you been informed of this initiative? What is your perception of it? Can this be an effective way to address the health care problem behind bars? Would it be appropriate, in your opinion, to extend it, in the long term, to all our prisons?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1013x.u15	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Flahaux, the idea of teleconsultations is part of the temporal organization of care. It is a tool for practitioners to estimate the level of urgency of the person's care. A possible implementation can only be achieved by taking into account and analysing the regulatory, legal and ethical frameworks, as well as the technical aspects of an installation of the computer network. The opportunity to see and listen to the patient for the first time would improve the physician's decision as to whether or not the consultation is urgent. A connected stethoscope and a camera could be the technical response to this decision. In addition, the use of an intelligent medical questioning system would also make it possible to supplement this opinion. A feasibility study has yet to give its conclusions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1013x.u16	Minister, I have no doubt that you will be attentive to the record of the current experience in Marche-en-Famenne. If this can help to avoid unnecessary travel - especially on evenings and weekends - for the organisation of prisons and for police areas, I think we will save a lot of time and money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1013x.u17	Mr.President, Minister, my question was tabled on November 12, 2018 and is starting a little bit. Since then, developments have certainly taken place. Like other countries, Belgium tolerates the use of cameras in vehicles. Sometimes there are restrictions on their use, such as the obligation not to obstruct the driver's view or not to handle it during driving. The distribution of images is accepted provided that the limits of privacy are respected. In the absence of a separate law, motorists can therefore embark a dash cam by respecting privacy laws. The owner of the dash cam will be considered responsible for the future processing of recorded images and will have to respect, among other things, the principle of proportionality. The case law considers that when a driver is filmed committing an offence, these images should not be ruled out in a possible trial. In fact, it was decided that evidence obtained in violation of the right to privacy of the person concerned could nevertheless be used, unless the law expressly provided for a case of invalidity. Minister, the situation is quite complex. Do you consider that changes in legislation are necessary in order to provide a clear legal framework in this area, given that more and more citizens are using this type of material?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1013x.u18	Mr President, Mr Flahaux, as you note, the privacy legislation is applicable to images recorded by the dash cams, since they are personal data relating to an identified or identifiable natural person. These images can be used as evidence of law enforcement in, for example, a trial of road traffic offences. The evidence is indeed free in criminal matters and the police courts have already admitted that images taken by a dash cam are considered to be regular evidence. It is therefore for the trial judge to assess whether the images presented to him can be admitted as evidence and to base his decision on that basis. It should be noted that the fact that the images were recorded in violation of the privacy legislation does not imply that the evidence is automatically set aside, provided, however, that the irregularity survives the Antigone test set out in article 32 of the preliminary title of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The Constitutional Court also admitted, in a judgment of 27 July 2011, that evidence obtained in disregard of a provision to guarantee the right to privacy is not automatically null and void. As regards the advisability of amending existing legislation in order to establish a clear legal framework in this area, I believe that the current legislation is sufficient for criminal prosecution and that there is no need for legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1013x.u19	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. I tend to follow you in your reasoning. It might be interesting, not necessarily now, but in the near future, to see what is happening in the other European Union countries in order to try to stick as much as possible to the overall situation. Since Belgium is a handkerchief and Belgian drivers are increasingly travelling abroad and European foreigners are increasingly in Belgium, it would be good to have legislation that is as consistent as possible with that of our European partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1013x.u20	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jiroflée's 27876 was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1013x.u21	Mr President, Minister, over the last five years the Belgian State has not collected EUR 1.05 billion in fines and confiscations. That's what figures from the FPS Treasury show. According to this month's figures, the State has only managed to collect 38% of criminal fines and confiscations in the last five years. It amounts to EUR 655 million out of a total of EUR 1.7 billion to be entered in the Treasury. The figure is significant, even if it is a snapshot pending some fines and confiscations that still have to be paid. For a long time, people who had been forfeited half a million euros were allowed to pay off the amount at 50 euros per month. The collection of fines was not a priority for Finance for a long time. The Ghent Labour Auditorate has also collected statistics on the situation. Magistrate Isabelle Croene has studied 53 sentences from 2013. In 2015, it found that only one of those judgments had been enforced for an amount of EUR 17 000. That was only 1% of the amount to be collected. This month, only 237 000 euros were recovered from the 1.38 million euros due. Its sample shows that only 17% was collected after 5 years. The problem has been dragging on for a long time. Already in 2000, 2007 and 2014, the Court of Auditors denounced this situation. Have you already consulted your former colleague, Mr Van Overtveldt, who was responsible for collecting fines at the time? If so, what measures will be taken to ensure that the fines handed down by the courts are actually collected? I also assume that the answer cannot be that Minister Van Overtveldt is no longer there.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1013x.u22	Mrs Lambrecht, I can confirm that Mr Van Overtveldt is still here. That will not be my answer. Mr President, Mrs Lambrecht, the collection of penalty fines is a permanent issue, both for the FPS Justice and for the FPS Finance. My current colleague for Finance, Mr De Croo, and I myself, are regularly interviewed about this. I would like to refer to the answers already given in this connection. It is the recipients of the Domains who collect the fines in the name of the King's Attorney. Since 2016, unpaid criminal penalties have been computerized and systematically recovered through bailiffs, through employers through the withholding of wages and even through banks. For the confirmation of the global figures, I refer to the FPS Finance, where they are centralized. In addition to the day-to-day cooperation in the field between the Public Prosecutor's Office and the FPS Finance, regular consultations are held between the competent Attorney General, the reference magistrates and the senior officials of the FPS Finance Office. This is done within the Special Consultative Body for the coordination of the recovery of non-fiscal debts in criminal matters. Guidelines at the FPS Justice, the FPS Finance and the jurisdictions were aligned. Work will also continue on the electronic exchange of relevant data. Particular attention shall be paid to the application of replacement penalties. In addition, there are training sessions at the Institute of Judicial Training, in which both finance and justice staff participate. Such initiatives are indeed starting to bear fruit. The most substantial progress has been made so far in the collection of traffic fines, including through the "Crossborder" project.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1013x.u23	Minister, I note that there is a desire to improve this. I hold on to the straw of the inning of the traffic fines, which is going better. Do you have any figures indicating that the collection went from 20 % to 70 %, for example? Can you reassure me with figures in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1013x.u24	Mrs Lambrecht, I could, if I wanted to reassure you, do what I usually do when I want to reassure people. So I could give figures that may not be entirely in line with reality. I would therefore ask you to ask me again about this matter. However, for the traffic fines, the chances of getting caught and the rates of collection have increased dramatically, if I may stick to the word'spectacular'.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1013x.u25	Mr. Secretary, I will put a new question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1013x.u26	Minister, it is reported that there would be a considerable backlog in the supply of work clothes to prison staff. Is that a rumor? How much behind is it? How many garments haven't been delivered? What's the average waiting time? What is the cause of the delay? Who's in charge of delivery? Isn't there a stock? What happens if the work clothes are not delivered in time? Should the staff themselves be responsible for purchasing work clothes? Will the work clothes purchased by the staff be refunded? There are all kinds of stories about this that I can't assume are true, but I'd like to verify that with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1013x.u27	Mrs Lambrecht, a distinction must be made between work clothes and personal protective equipment, to which specific legislation applies and uniform clothing for the security staff and technical staff, to which other specific regulations apply. In view of the question and the current problem of uniform clothing, I assume that this is the last type of clothing. There is indeed a delay in the provision of uniform clothing for the security staff and technical staff. However, the delay does not apply to all articles of clothing, but only to a certain number of articles of costume clothing, mainly jackets and trousers. The gap is on average three pieces per beneficiary. In principle, the rightholder shall receive the items within one year of the application, taking into account the internal and external purchasing procedure, the budgetary handling and the contractual delivery period. It should be stressed that there is no delay in articles such as shirts, polo and shoulder marks. An important cause of the delay in costume clothing is the problem with the supplier. The then supplier went into liquidation and could no longer complete certain orders. Furthermore, there were procedural problems with the appointment of a new supplier. It was not until July that a new supplier could be appointed. However, it has not yet been possible to complete the national stock for specific clothing articles. In the course of 2019, the backlog in jackets and trousers will be eliminated. The rules do not allow compensation or compensation for own purchases. The costumes must be uniform for every staff member.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1013x.u28	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. If people have to do their job and do not have appropriate clothing for it because one supplier went into liquidation and another has yet to be appointed, then I think it should be considered whether they will not be able to receive compensation when they come to work in their own clothes. They are entitled to uniform clothing of the service where they work. Do I have to put in a new question to have that investigated?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1013x.u29	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I offer you my best wishes for 2019. I hope you can all remain in good health. You all look radiant. I hope it stays that way. Now that Mr Flahaux has disappeared from the Chamber, only Members of the West Flemish Parliament remain to question you, Minister. You can see that we want to do all the credit to our reputation as noodles, hard workers. I now come to my question, Minister. On 28 September 2016, Ludwig Sneyers, the then CEO of the Pro League, announced that an action plan would be drawn up with the Pro League, the football clubs, the Gaming Commission and the sector. One of its goals was to make it impossible for players to gamble at their own games. By means of a protocol, these different organisations wished to introduce a notification for the gambling sector to the relevant clubs, the Gaming Commission and the KBVB, if a player would place a "forbidden bet'. An earlier answer from yourself to a question from me and from my contacts in the field shows that the Gaming Commission performs proactive screenings on footballers in the Jupiler Pro League, but not yet in the first class B, in order to determine to what extent they make bets on matches in which they participate. In addition, both the KBVB and the Pro League have put in formal regulatory actions to further sensitise and inform the players. The KBVB states in its internal rules that the contract of each paid sportsman must contain a clause prohibiting such bets. The Pro League also ensures that the clubs provide information on the theme of gambling to the players who are under contract with them. In the event of abuse, criminal action may be taken through the seconded police officers to the Gaming Commission, pursuant to Article 4 (3) of the Gaming Act. I have the following questions. Firstly, has the action plan of the Pro League, the clubs, the Gaming Commission and the betting establishments or the gambling sector been established? What's the result so far? If not, what is the reason for that? Will you urge the organisations concerned to draw up the action plan? Secondly, is it appropriate that such an action plan should also be concluded between the sports associations of other sports, the affiliated clubs, the Gambling Commission and the gambling sector? If not, why not? Thirdly, are there currently investigations into professional sportsmen because of their gambling behaviour? If so, in which sport sector? I have received information about this from you in the past. Fourthly, are there companies in the gambling sector that warn themselves spontaneously, independently of any protocol, the Gaming Commission and possibly also the KBVB, the Pro League and the clubs about the gambling behaviour of their players? If so, how many are there? Which companies are we talking about? Is such a notification in accordance with GDPR or other privacy protection legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1013x.u30	Mr Vermeulen, the Gaming Commission has long sought to conclude agreements, both with the Royal Belgian Football Association and with the Pro League. A first attempt to do so, in 2013, was unsuccessful. The action plan to which you refer is in fact a second unsuccessful attempt by the Gaming Commission and the Pro League in 2016 to officialise a cooperation between the sports world and the Gaming Commission. Work would be done to standardise the rules on prevention of match fixing and betting by players and staff on their own matches, as well as to establish a protocol with action points for betting operators, such as a notification of the sector, limiting certain betting, banning betting on U21 or lower matches and more. An analysis published by the Gaming Commission showed that the Belgians participated in bets in large numbers during the World Cup last summer. That analysis also showed that the Red Devils themselves did not participate in the prevention campaign following that World Cup, which was a great missed opportunity to raise awareness among children and young people about the danger of betting. For these reasons and strengthened by the revelations relating to Belgian football that have been brought to light in recent months, I have already asked the Gaming Commission to reconnect with the football sector, in particular with the Pro League, to conclude an agreement, as well as to develop a new prevention campaign, this time with support from the football world. Both the Gaming Commission and the Pro League have notified me of their renewed intention to conclude a cooperation protocol, which should be implemented in early 2019. Although football is still the main sports sector on which betting is adopted, a similar protocol with other sports federations also seems more than desirable. First of all, I am thinking of tennis, on which the number of bets, especially live bets, almost reaches the level of football, but also the hockey, which has a growing success. The Pro League protocol may act as a blueprint. I can't give you any information about ongoing investigations, given the secrecy of the judicial investigation. Screenings of athletes on placing bets that may infringe Article 4 (3) of the Gaming Act are based on information from other press articles, notifications to the Gaming Commission, communications and findings in the context of criminal investigations. Individual football clubs have also been informally discussed about the impact of betting on football. It is currently being examined whether any mandatory notification by the gakoperators to the Gaming Commission is not better legally enshrined in the Gaming Act.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1013x.u31	Mr Minister, the last part of your answer certainly gives me a great deal of satisfaction. This is one of the points on which I have asked questions on a regular basis. I mentioned sports exhibited individuals at the time, because it is precisely with those people that greater awareness can be possible and because better screening and better immediate response from the gambling sector to the clubs, those involved, can also be of interest to the individuals themselves. You referred to a number of failed attempts. In 2015 or 2016, I myself visited the then President of the KBVB, Mr De Keersmaecker, to raise this issue, in the presence of the Federal Prosecutor. It was supposed to be done, but he indicated that this depended on his re-election, which, however, did not take place, and that a new President has been appointed. I will insist on that, both at the Pro League and at the KBVB, since I myself am involved in a member football club. I will therefore use my position to point out the seriousness of the matter and to point out the continuing initiatives of the Gaming Commission, in which I am confident and who is making a great deal of effort to do so, I am sure. But I will also point out that they must cooperate, that they must not be separate, isolated, uncoordinated measures by different organisations and that it is best to combine them all, best with an agreement or a cooperation agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1013x.u32	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Degroote's 28020 has been converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1013x.u33	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you all the best for 2019. My first oral question to you, Minister, concerns Article 44 of the law on the police on road traffic, which reads as follows: 'He who has been declared invalid for reasons of physical or mental incapacity of the right to send may, after at least six months from the date of the judgment which has become final, request a review by means of an application addressed to the public prosecutor before the court which declared the lapse.' I would like to point out that there are problems with the practical implementation of the phrase which stipulates that the petition is addressed to the public prosecutor. There would be different methods of bringing such a case to justice from parquet to parquet. One of them works with a subpoena, the other sends the application addressed to him to the Registry with an obligation to call the case. That's what happens to ordinary letters. In another place, the case is brought to justice by the public prosecutor, who informs the parties by means of an ordinary letter. In East Flanders these cases would be subpoenaed by the prosecution, in West Flanders the departments of the parquet have agreed to forward the petition to the registry, which should then be responsible for the summoning, which should be done by means of an ordinary letter. The law does not specify the manner in which the case must be brought and by whom, for example, contrary to the appeal against the order for payment, for which the procedure of lodging and summoning was clearly defined in the law. Since the law provides that the application must be lodged with the public prosecutor, it would only be logical if the case was brought by the public prosecutor by means of a subpoena. However, an ordinary letter does not seem to be the most logical or common way of bringing someone before the criminal court. Advocates of the Court of First Instance put forward the main argument that this procedure should be free of charge to the applicant and that any costs should be charged to the State during the proceedings. Mr Minister, my questions are as follows. Who's gonna make sure the case goes to trial? In what way should this be done: through a regular letter, a court letter or a subpoena? Who should be notified? If costs are incurred, by whom should they be borne? Are you aware of the different practices and will you take an initiative to achieve a certain uniformity, for example by means of a circular?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1013x.u34	Mr President, Mrs De Crom, Article 44 of the Road Code merely states that the application for revision must be made through the petition addressed to the prosecution, but it does not mention any further procedure. In principle, then, it is for the prosecution to communicate the application to the Registry, which in turn calls on the applicant. The summoning takes place in practice by means of an ordinary letter. However, there are those Registrys who refuse to proceed to a summons in the absence of a legal provision concerning the procedure to be followed. In such cases, the prosecution shall either subpoena or notify the date of the hearing through the police. Since that procedure is initiated by the person to whom the measure applies, the person who has been declared void of the right to send for physical or mental incapacity is therefore always summoned. Your question about the costs of subpoenas and the costs for an expert is the subject of a division of justice. In the majority of the decisions, the court finds that the costs of summons and the costs for experts are legal costs which are borne by the person who initiates the review procedure and therefore requests the removal of the lapse of the right to direct. In other case-law, it is considered that when a person is declared fully medically fit after examination, there is no reason for that person to bear the costs of an expert. I will examine whether a circular could be sufficient to streamline existing divergent practices. If it were not to appear, it would be appropriate to clarify the law itself in the sense that the application is lodged at the Registry, as is customary and as is the case in the article governing the order for payment, in particular Article 65/1 of the Road Code.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1013x.u35	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1013x.u36	Mr President, Minister, recently the Justice Palace of Namur was declared unsafe and largely evacuated after a devastating report of the social inspection. Repairs at the Palace of Justice have begun and would take at least a month. Not only is 80% of the staff technically unemployed, but also the public prosecutor would have asked the police areas to forward only the evidence and minutes of the worst crimes, due to lack of space and capacity. After all, there is no place to store the material and files, nor staff to handle them. According to Namur's Attorney, a month's delay means thousands of untreated files and it will take at least a year to eliminate this delay. There is therefore a fear that more things will be dropped. How could it have come to this? How will the delay in the Namur parish be eliminated? Will you provide additional resources for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1013x.u37	Mr. Chairman, Minister, this question is addressed to the Minister responsible for the Régie des Bâtiments. I'm lucky you're also Minister of Justice. The renovation of judicial buildings in Belgium and especially in Wallonia is urgent. Some of these buildings are in an advanced state of disrepair, creating deplorable working conditions and preventing staff members from conducting their work properly. The Federal Labour Inspectorate ordered the closure of all premises on the first floor of the Namur courthouse. Simple access to the floor is prohibited and any contravention would be fined. We were able to read in the local press that some clerks and prosecutors find themselves in forced technical unemployment. Seventy-eight staff members were required to proceed with an emergency relocation because their offices and rooms are inaccessible. A peril threatens the short- and medium-term hearings. In addition to the disastrous image offered by a vital public service, there are extremely damaging consequences both in criminal justice and in civil matters. The work of the justice system is delayed and negatively impacted by the abolition of hearings, delays in delivery and the non-treatment of all types of cases. While urgent work has been undertaken at the entrance porch, this work has no impact on access to the first floor premises and courtrooms. If I believe the press, this Monday access to the courthouse has been allowed again. Minister, in order for the courthouse to fulfil its functionality and for workers to be able to return to their premises, it is essential that work be carried out as soon as possible. While waiting for the construction of Namur's new courthouse, can you, Minister, tell me when real rehabilitation and renovation work will be undertaken in Namur's courthouse?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1013x.u38	Mr President, Mrs Lambrecht, Mr Clarinval, as you know, there are many and perhaps too many courthouses in this country. Some of them are in very good condition, while others have major defects. I have become very aware of this in the last four and a half years. In Namur, it was decided to close the palace before the Christmas holidays. In the meantime, however, many necessary works have been carried out, allowing the palace to reopen and operate since yesterday morning. Therefore, I am pleased to see that the competent services within the FPS Justice and the Régie des Bâtiments ensured this rapid reopening. This does not remove the fact that these buildings require constant monitoring and maintenance. Further work is planned in the coming weeks and months. They form a long list containing several elements - minor or major - which require follow-up pending the opening of the new courthouse building. This openness is also a priority. As far as the removal of the backlog is concerned, magistrates can work at home under normal circumstances. According to the King's Attorney, twenty magistrates have done the same for the most pressing cases. According to the prosecutor, there is sufficient solidarity that other prosecutors have already indicated that they will help the Namur parish to file the files. In December 2018, a new vacancy was published for a substitute in Namur. This means that there are currently three vacancies for Namur's parquet. This would result in a 96 percent framework. As far as the court staff are concerned, the public prosecutor currently has 75 full-time equivalents in a framework of 77. That's 97 percent. Nine contracts were already renewed in December 2018. In addition, due to the specific situation of the building, three additional contracts were awarded to the court of first instance. One of them started on 2 January. The other two contracts are in preparation. Meanwhile, I am also in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments. In doing so, I observe the preparation of the new building in Namur with the utmost diligence. We are still waiting for the opinion of the Institute of National Accounts, which has become necessary because of a new Eurostat regulation. I think I can get the auction published next March. In this way and in the best case, construction will be completed by the end of 2021 or the beginning of 2022. Mr Clarinval, I know that this whole procedure takes a lot of time in our small country.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1013x.u39	Minister, I will not begin to tell you how bad it all is. We share the same opinion. It is terrible for a country like Belgium that Justice is housed in such buildings. I can only hope that one day someone will succeed in making progress with the Buildings Regie, rather than following the very slow course we have known for many years.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1013x.u40	Minister, thank you for all this information. Could I have a copy of the short-term work list you have announced? Thank you also for giving the timing elements regarding the construction of this new courthouse. I think that the situation was quite serious, but it is true that the speed and solidarity of the staff allowed in some time to find a solution and to reopen the palace no later than yesterday. But it is, alas, a plaster on a wooden leg. We hope that it will be possible to inaugurate Namur's new courthouse quickly. We're counting on you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1013x.u41	Mr Minister, today we heard that the poverty groups are going to the Council of State to take action against the regime which obliges the use of DPA deposit. The poverty groups fear that lawyers will pass on the costs of using DPA deposit to their clients, and that pro-Deo lawyers will try to avoid these costs as much as possible by submitting all documents on paper, which in turn can lead to a two-speed justice system, which will put people in poverty. The Anti-Poverty Network points out that justice has become much more expensive, raising the threshold for people in poverty to initiate proceedings. For example, the VAT rate on lawyers' fees has been raised to 21%, the justice fee has been introduced and the Registry fees have been increased. Minister, in a rule of law, communication with the court, whether on paper or electronically, should always be free of charge. Hence my questions. First, the cost of using DPA deposit will be recovered from the client, and on what basis? Secondly, is there a specific regime for pro-Deo cases? Thirdly, why did you consider it necessary to require a private platform in addition to the existing free e-Deposit system? Fourthly, are you planning changes to the rules to address the justified concerns of Network against Poverty?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1013x.u42	For your first three questions, Mrs Lambrecht, I refer to my previous answers to oral questions of 7 November 2018. There is no regulation on the charging of costs relating to the DPA platform by a lawyer to his client. These costs shall be determined on a contractual basis, whether in writing or not. In pro-Deo cases, the general rule that the lawyer is not directly reimbursed by the seeker is not affected. The step taken by the Royal Decree is the linking of the e-Deposit platform to the DPA platform in the laying down of conclusions and documents. This link allows, among other things, as regards lawyers, to carry out systematic checks on the status of the person making the submissions by that body, which has traditionally been designated by law, in particular the counter. The need for systematic quality control by lawyers is wider than the laying down of documents and will increase significantly in the near future. I am thinking, for example, of the possibility of looking at a criminal record during the distance investigation or the control of access to courthouses and detention homes, or the digital transmission of judgments. On 1 February 2019, the financial access threshold for those wishing to initiate a procedure will be lifted. The right to roll must no longer be paid by the person who initiates proceedings, but by the person who ultimately loses them. This is an example of our efforts to reduce access to justice, especially for those who are financially weaker. By digitizing, we reduce procedural costs. The use of e-Deposit was and is still free. The desk associations charge fees to lawyers using their central digital platform. The digital services offered by the platform seem to me to be more clearly cheaper than the cost of material, time and shipping that a lawyer has to make if he does not use the digital possibilities. The possible transfer of these costs to his client may therefore be lower in the use of the digital capabilities than when working with paper carriers. I suspect, however, that the debate on this matter will take some time until everyone has made a correct cost calculation. So I am not planning any regulatory adjustments, because wrong assumptions are being made. In any case, it is not the royal decree of the Minister that determines the costs associated with the transmission of documents via e-Deposit. It's a counter's own initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1013x.u43	Mr President, Minister, this is, of course, an initiative from the desk. However, this will lead to increased costs. In my opinion, you could certainly have made a certain proposal in the file to counter that increase. You answer that the billing of the lawyer will be lower. I'd like to see that. I will therefore follow the file very closely. The concerns, certainly of an agency such as the Network against Poverty, are very justified. Digitisation should reduce costs. However, that will not be the case here. We can talk about this later.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-09-54-commissie-ic1013x.u44	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Question No 27575 by Mrs Karine Lalieux becomes moot. Furthermore, contrary to what I said earlier, Question No 27876 by Mrs Karin Jiroflée is withdrawn, not postponed.
