ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u1	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank my fellow Members once again for their tolerance and flexibility towards our group, so that we can join our group later. To make a long story short, at the end of last year the army had EUR 2.6 billion in resources. That should rise to 4 billion by 2021 to reach more than 5 billion by 2024. Of course, the military leadership isn't just asking for these resources. They will use these resources to recruit new staff, renovate barracks and pay for recently purchased military equipment. Many commitments were made by the previous government, but the financial consequences were passed on to another government. I have a number of questions for the Minister. Minister, how do you explain the transfer of these invoices to another legislature? What's the point of that? We may both know the answer, but you are going to tell me again. To what extent are you prepared to speak of a budgetary magic trick to boost the budget? Do you recognise the financial problems relating to the future of the army? Do you think it is feasible that the funds requested by the Chief of Defense should also be invested effectively? Do you share the analysis of the Chief of Defense who says that if these funds are not invested, the missions discussed in a previous committee will be placed on a lower footing?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u2	Minister, in July, the Chief of Staff of the Army indicated that the Defence budget should grow to 1.27% of GDP by 2024 if it is to carry out tasks further and not jeopardise its operation. Currently, the budget is 0.92% of GDP. An increase to 1.27 % would increase the budget by 2.4 billion euros. It is true, of course, that for years, the Defense Department was underfunded and had to cut back on the framework, maintenance and infrastructure in order to keep operations and training up to date. The budget is a matter for the next government, but since the next government will be waiting for it, it is important that our army stays operational and the invoices can be paid. That's why it was a distress call from the Chief of Defense Staff. Firstly, will the provisional twelfths be sufficient to deal adequately with the problems facing the defence sector? If so, for how long? If not, what urgent measures are needed in this case? Secondly, the previous government's strategic vision of 29 June 2016 provides for an increase in the budget, with only 1.26 % in 2029. For 2024, 1.06 % is foreseen. The military summit undoubtedly also had a say and was also involved in the formulation of that strategic vision. How then is it that, three years after the date, the budgetary estimate from that strategic point of view is in fact obsolete? Finally, General Compernol also warns of a peak in outflow due to the number of retirements arriving very quickly. How many staff members will retire in 2019, 2020 and 2021? On what total workforce, of how many effectives, will that be? How will the government cope with this in the short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u3	Minister, on July 19, there was a request from the Chief of Defence, Mr. Compernol, for more resources. In his view, the budget should almost double by 2024. Indeed, it would increase from EUR 2.6 billion to EUR 5 billion. The budget is expected to reach 4 billion by 2021. According to him, this would be a legacy of the past. On August 6, the newspaper De Morgen produced a file according to which internal accounts show how debts will accumulate in the coming years, in new equipment, infrastructure, training and ammunition. We're talking about about 1 billion euros here. The ACMP-CGPM military union is questioning the disastrous management of the previous government and the Defence leadership. According to the union, the budgets were imprudent by postponing invoices to a later date. The De Morgen newspaper file also shows that the army's management believes that only a right-wing government will accept its demands, which is why a lobby was set up under the direction of the former Chief of Staff of Minister N-VA Steven Vandeput. The Chief of Defence himself met with most of the party presidents. According to this lobby, the leadership of the army would be more favourable to a right-wing government. Minister, will the management of the army lead to an increasing deficit in the defence budget in the coming legislature? Do you confirm the figures mentioned in the press? Is the government aware of these budgetary developments? Is it true that if its budget is not increased, Defence will soon be unable to repay its debts? Do you think that the leadership of the army has exceeded its prerogatives by spending its resources as if the increase in the budget was a fait accompli? Is it acceptable for the leadership of the army to lobby certain political parties? In a democracy is it tolerable that the leadership of the army mixes with political decisions and the formation of a new government?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u4	Minister, I believe that we must be very concerned about the proper functioning of our army. Today we read that the army summit itself thinks of a crisis manager being appointed. An organisation making such a decision indirectly indicates that there is a crisis. The crisis concerns both staff and finance. There are some problems in this matter. These questions deal with the budget. The previous parliamentary term was mainly debated in this committee on those purchases which until today have not yet been paid a single euro. EUR 9.2 billion has been earmarked for this purpose, but additional resources are already being discussed for staff, for the operation and implementation of the large orders decided upon in the future. Sp.a is worried. How will all this be paid for in the future? I come to my questions. How do you look at General Compernol's call? The new investments will entail additional and unforeseen costs. What steps are you taking to ensure that the costs are not again at the expense of the staff and the operation of the defence?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u5	Mr Minister, before you give the floor to answer the questions, I would like to congratulate you on your own behalf, but perhaps also on behalf of this committee, on your new position and new challenge. You will be the European Commissioner for Justice. That is not an easy task, you will have many issues on the table. Still, congratulations on your new position. You now have the floor for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u6	Mr President, thank you for your congratulations. I'll return to the question. In accordance with the decision of the Ministerial Council of 29 June 2016 on the preamble to the Strategic Vision and in accordance with the Military Programming Act of 23 May 2017, several investments in main equipment are realised by the Government. The supplies and payment of the investments were contracted and spread over the duration of the contracts. Therefore, no invoice was passed on. On the contrary, due to the contractual provisions, advance payments were made in 2019 and 2018 where in principle payments had to be made in 2020 when the new equipment was first delivered. This led to a deviation from initially projected linear growth to 1.3 % of GDP in 2030. These advance payments are ESA neutral for Europe but require an increase in the means of settlement during the next legislature, as they cannot be compensated internally by Defence without compromising the normal functioning of the department, including training and deployment in operations. In addition to investments in main equipment, the strategic vision of Defence also includes a growth of the basic envelope for Defence. This annual increase in growth to 1.3 % in 2030 is necessary. Maintaining operational output, increasing preparedness, preparing the transition to new capabilities and the necessary initiatives for recapitalisation in the field of personnel are the main challenges to be addressed simultaneously by Defence. Moreover, Belgium must fulfil its international obligations to its allies. To achieve this, additional investments are proposed on top of the investments included in the strategic vision of Defence, so that Belgium can achieve its capacity targets within the framework of NATO's Defence Investment Pledges. We are now making a number of contacts with NATO to further present our capacity in order to realise our international commitments. You know that a summit will be organised at NATO in December 2019 to analyse this. If Defense were not given the necessary resources it would undoubtedly have an impact on the functioning of the department. Initially, there will be an impact on training and deployment in operations. Moreover, the newly purchased weapons systems will not be able to be used, partially or inefficiently. Like many public and private organisations with a social role in our country, the military leadership has explained to various political parties the challenges for Defence during the coming legislature. What action will ultimately be taken is a responsibility of the next government and Parliament. In 2019, 1 637 staff will retire to a workforce of around 29 000. In 2020 and 2021, 1 600 and 1 500 staff would retire respectively. Normally, the workforce should fall to around 25 000, but I will ask for some more precise data on the evolution in 2020 and 2021, because the new recruitments must also be taken into account. After all, it is a balance between the two. Measures were taken in the previous legislature to cope with this wave of ageing within Defence and additional measures will be proposed. This includes, among other things, a maximization of recruitment of more than 2 150 military and civilian personnel per year, and the sourcing for tasks that do not require military experience or expertise. In addition, a number of additional initiatives have already been developed. This includes diversification of inflow, optimisation of the existing population, work-life balance, individual support, improved working conditions and the attraction of the military profession. I would like to add that, of course, we will have to continue to implement the various aspects of the 2030 vision. Investments still need to be made. As you know, we recently introduced our new mine hunters to the Military Purchases Commission. These investments will continue in the Department of the Navy, along with the frigates. In order to fulfil our commitments within NATO and the European Union, we must also imagine others, in collaboration with partner countries. As far as the Navy is concerned, of course, it is the Netherlands. With regard to the ground force, we are working with France on the CaMo (Motorized Capacity) project. That is the first aspect in terms of investment. Infrastructure improvements are needed to accommodate these new capacities. I am thinking of the bases that will host the F-35s but also of the Navy's equipment that will have to be adapted to the new investments. Beyond these considerations, we must also work on intensive recruitment. As I have just said, we are talking about more than 2,000 military personnel a year. Similarly, consideration should be given to the conditions and organisation of work. Perhaps we can come back, on the occasion of other questions, to developments in terms of training and quality of life. In this regard, we must try to attract more and more women to the Defence. Considerable efforts still need to be made here – and in other countries – in this area. Since I have heard the term "lobby", I repeat that it seems to me quite normal that the Head of Defence is trying to explain to the various political formations the nature of the stakes for the next few years. It was, moreover, the work of officials from other departments. I would add that trade unions, employers, mutual societies or other actors in our society do the same. On the other hand, Mr. Chairman, I am pleased that you have accepted the CHOD's proposal to have you meet with his staff to present the situation in Defence and the issues at stake. Now, one can always refuse to hear the heads of a department when it is about its future, but each political formation obviously develops its own conception of the management of public finances and the stakes of our society.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I think we can agree that we invest too little in our army and in Defense Tout Court. If we were to forget that, the American President would always like to remind us that we are not achieving 2.5 percent. The US President is not only exerting pressure to invest 2.5 percent of GDP in Defense, the problem is that he is exerting pressure to conclude defence contracts with US companies. I have reservations about that. We do not have very much money, and if I understand it correctly, there is not as much willingness on the part of all colleagues to invest resources in our defence and in the military. Should we then allow ourselves to be pressured into the hands of the United States? If we really mean it with a European defence strategy and a European defence strategy, then we must also have the courage to buy from the partner countries, and we must also dare to negotiate the price, within the framework of less is more or more for less. With that in mind, perhaps we should consult our northern neighbours. The Dutch colleagues do indeed negotiate prices when they spend their defence budgets and they do not just join in any group purchases.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. We have all been able to read the reports in today's newspapers. If it is true that the army is looking for a crisis manager, then I think the situation there is felt acute. It will be a while before a new government can take long-term action. I would therefore ask the government in current cases to do everything in its power to preserve the operationality of our army and to ensure that the working conditions for the staff are in order until a new government can take more long-term measures. I am referring, among other things, to working conditions in the barracks and infrastructure. There are 1 250 Belgian soldiers active in operations and those people must be able to perform their operation in an orderly manner. We cannot wait for the new government. If the current situation is acute and serious, measures are already needed. I think it is very good, and I am speaking on behalf of my group, Mr President, that Defence is making its voice heard in the debate. Next week we will be listening with great interest to what the Chief of Staff of the Army has to tell us as politicians and what the concerns are. This does not mean that we will agree with everything, but dialogue is needed, and we must listen to each other's views. We care about the DOD. So we need a vision, a political policy. The first condition for this is that we listen to each other's views. For us, therefore, it is not a problem for the military world to send a message about politics.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u9	Minister, thank you for your answers, although they do not all satisfy me. We remain convinced that what is provided for in the budget does not correspond to the various purchases that will have to be made. It's kind of like we put money aside to buy a car, but we didn't have money for gas, maintenance, or tires, and then we had to ask our parents to intervene. When we face this, political choices will have to be made at the expense of the social, with consequences for the working conditions of the military. I come from the world of work and I can tell you that hearing the words "outsourcing" or "optimization" does not please me, especially since Defence is neither a private company nor any public company.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u10	Minister, there has been an under-financing of the army for many years, and there is no discussion about this. There is therefore a need for investment, and there is no discussion on this. We had reservations about these large orders in the past. You are rather light about it, but I am sure they will have serious budgetary consequences in the next legislature. And then we assume that the amounts provided will remain neatly within the framework, which I doubt. We are therefore going to have to follow this case very closely, because it would be very bad, of course, that just the orders that our army should put back on the agenda would cause training and deployment in operations to deteriorate, so that these new weapons can only be used in part. That cannot be the intention at all. We will follow this matter with great attention, because we are concerned about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to congratulate the Minister on his new role in the European Commission. You have inherited a difficult but important portfolio at a time when Europe is plagued by populism and fundamental rights are sometimes at risk. I wish you good luck in your new duties. My first question concerns the relocation of the administrative secretariat of the Royal Army Museum. You are aware, Minister, that as part of the implementation of the law of 28 April 2017 establishing the War Heritage Institute (WHI) and including the integration of the Royal Museum of the Army and Military History (MRA), the administrative secretariat of the MRA has been temporarily moved to the premises of the Royal Military School (RME). It is my responsibility, however, that the reintegration of this secretariat into the MRA should take place later this year, as the Defence wishes, in a legitimate way, to recover the spaces occupied by the administration of the WHI. Nearly 100 000 euros per year are referred to as operating costs in terms of the cost of renting the offices to the ERM. Therefore, Minister, can you let me know if you confirm this information? If so, do you not consider this to be a relative financial gabegie? More generally, how does the future of the MRA look in terms of the layout of collections and administrative offices and scientific staff? Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u12	Mrs Rohonyi, I thank you first of all for your congratulations and encouragement for my future activities at European level. With regard to the situation in this secretariat, I would like to say that shortly before the formal establishment of the WHI on 1 May 2017, several departments, including the administrative secretariat, management, part of the support services (budget and finance, human resources, translation) as well as the communications service and military burials, were located on the premises of the ERM on 20 March 2017. Some 35 staff members were affected by the temporary relocation. The cost of renting the premises within the ERM was indeed around EUR 100 000 per year. This covered, among other things, the rental of the premises themselves, the costs of heating, electricity, cleaning and parking spaces and other similar amenities. The costs incurred are proportional to the services rendered. However, for the sake of economy and effective management of the budget allocated to the WHI, it was decided that the services transferred to the ERM would be repatriated to the MRA site, which was done in June 2019. The move was for administrative services only, as collections were not affected by the move. With regard to administrative and scientific staff, a reorganization plan carried out by the directorates of the departments concerned enabled both the staff who were already present and the staff who had moved to optimize the well-being of those staff and the efficiency of the various services. It was based on a reorganisation of services in order to rationalise the available spaces, on the one hand, and to bring the different departments together with their respective directorates, on the other. I think it is a good thing that the services are now grouped together and that they can work a little more efficiently.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u13	Minister, thank you for your answers. I understand the cost of EUR 100 000 a year. However, this cost is a problem and a source of concern for those working in the area, for the simple reason that the Royal Army Museum had the space to host this secretariat. This was already the case before the creation of the WHI, as you pointed out. Moreover, the sum of EUR 100 000 remains a fairly large budget in view of the current federal budgetary difficulties. And this is all the more problematic as from January 1, 2019, the entrance fee to the Royal Army Museum doubled, due to the richness of the collections presented and the shortage of staff. This is in any case the official reasons that had been put forward to justify the increase in this entry price. In other words, the State is ready to release funds to rent a premises but not to ensure a democratic price for visitors or sufficient staff. The citizens as well as the staff of the Royal Army Museum therefore feel somewhat blurred.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u14	Mrs Rohonyi, in order to avoid any misunderstanding, I would like to ask you whether you have heard that the move was made again to the Royal Army Museum in June this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u15	Now, yes!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u16	Minister, it is my responsibility that the management of the World Heritage Institute (WHI) has just created a new external site associated with Zeebrugge called "Seafront", in the same spirit as the site "Gunfire" in Brasschaat. In addition, the project to create a large Flemish military museum is said to have entered its preparatory phase in Bourg-Léopold, Limburg. That Flanders is interested in our military history is not in itself a problem, but on the contrary: it is an excellent thing. What is problematic, on the other hand, is that Flanders is arrogating itself to the content of a federal, national public institution, since the renovation of the air hall of the Royal Museum of the Army, whose necessity I do not doubt at all, has resulted in the withdrawal of 120 aircraft, of which only part should return to the Royal Museum of the Army. Many associations and local residents are concerned about the fate of such collections, not to mention that the Flemish decree "Topstukken", adopted in 2003, provides – as you know very well – that if an object remains on Flemish soil for almost four years, it will not be able to return to Brussels, even if it is an object forming part of a national heritage, unless the Flemish government agrees otherwise. Therefore, Minister, can you please let me know if you confirm the two facts mentioned above, both with regard to the new external site associated with Zeebrugge, and with regard to the great Flemish military museum? If so, what would be the impact on the collections currently available within the Royal Army Museum? As it stands, are there any agreements between the WHI and these external sites that would guarantee the federal character of these collections despite the principle of territoriality resulting from the decree "Topstukken"? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u17	Minister, as you know, for my group, memory work is an essential dimension in your department's missions. In this context, the Royal Army Museum (MRA), which is now the World Heritage Institute (WHI), plays a leading role. Last May, the Brussels government extended the classification as a monument to the MRA to include furniture and objects that form part of the scenographic decor of historical and technical halls. These rooms are located in the curved galleries of the Museum and represent indeed a major heritage to preserve. I would therefore like to take the opportunity of this oral question to take stock with you: Where are we in the execution of the much needed work within the MRA and its Brussels site? What consequences will this justified decision of the Brussels government have in this context? Since last January, unfortunately, it has been decided to double the rates of entry into the MRA. For the first 6 months of this year, did you see a decrease in attendance compared to the previous year? Finally, what is the status of the appointment of a final director within the War Heritage Institute? Has a procedure in this direction been initiated or is it going to be initiated to put an end to the current ad interim situation which has been going on for several months? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u18	I will answer Mrs Rohonyi's question first. Since June 8, 2019, Seafront's Zeebrugge site has hosted Operation North Sea 1944-1945. It is part of the 75-year national programme of the Liberation, coordinated by the War Heritage Institute. This theme park is completely independent and therefore does not report to the War Heritage Institute in any way. Currently, the cooperation between the WHI and the Seafront is limited to this temporary exhibition which tells the history of the liberation of the mouth of the Scheldt and also presents the heritage immersed off the Belgian coast. The Liberation Garden Museum in Bourg-Léopold and the WHI are linked by a partnership. I would obviously refer you to the museum itself for more information on its development. The WHI's contribution is only six pieces from its own collection. The remaining loaned parts, in total 43, come from the reserves of the WHI and are therefore not exposed within the WHI. It should be recalled that the exposure is of a temporary nature. At the end of this exhibition, the pieces will be returned to those who delivered them, including, therefore, the Army Museum or the WHI if you prefer. Mr. Lacroix, with regard to the works within the museum, the Régie des Bâtiments is making progress in carrying out the works necessary to maintain and repair the site. The next step will be the renovation of the aviation lobby. The renovation works extend to the entire building and are not limited to the part where the classification was extended to the furniture and other objects of the historic and technical halls. The majority of the work is carried out in accordance with the location and classification of the premises. However, I must point out that the decision to extend the classification leads to complications. Indeed, the classification of the furniture and objects that form part of the scenographic decor – all the objects and all the furniture, according to the Brussels government – means that the latter cannot be moved, except by requesting authorization, for each room to be moved, from the Monuments and Sites of the Brussels-Capital Region. It therefore becomes difficult to perform certain repairs without endangering the integrity of the collection parts and/or without exceeding the time limits laid down for the work. I'm going to the entrance fees to the museum. Contrary to the fears of some, the change in the entry price has hardly led to a change in the attendance rate. At the time of the most recent count, from 1 January to the end of June 2019, the Royal Museum of Army and Military History had even recorded a slight increase in the number of visitors, by less than half a percent, compared to the same period of 2018. With regard to the appointment of a final director, the function of Director-General is a mandate function. The draft Royal Decree determining the number of management functions within the War Heritage Institute is currently before the Minister of Public Service for agreement. Selor's release of the deputy head position is normally scheduled for September. The selection procedure lasts about a year. It is therefore expected to take place mainly during the year 2020. I would of course like to point out that in these commemoration periods, the War Heritage Institute plays a particularly important role in all the events that are part of the 75th anniversary of the Liberation, as it played a particularly important role in the commemoration of the centenary of the First World War.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u19	Minister, thank you. The purpose of my question was precisely to hear from you about the safeguards that protect the national heritage and that ensure that the provisional does not become definitive. I am therefore reassured that you have told us that the objects will return to the Royal Army Museum. I still wanted to point out that there have already been precedents despite the application of the decree "Topstukken". Objects could not return to the Royal Army Museum. This was the case, in particular, with a Fairchild C-119, but the fact that you were quite assertive in your remarks reassures me.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u20	Minister, thank you for your answers. It happens that in the past now far away, the young historian I was found his first job at the Royal Army Museum. So I always go there with a lot of affection. I see that the Régie des Bâtiments has taken over since it appears that the renovation of this heritage and museum heritage is on its way. I know and guess that the Brussels-Capital Region ranking fundamentally changes things and does not simplify procedures. However, it remains true that these curved rooms with these presentation furnitures represent a unique heritage interest. We all know that the Royal Army Museum is one of the most beautiful museums in the world. I am pleased to see that it is evolving in a relatively favourable context.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u21	Minister, I would like to take this oral question to take stock with you of the "market of the century", namely the order of 34 F-35 by the MR/N-VA government. First of all, could you provide an update on the status of the procedure for replacing Belgian F-16s at both the budget and the delivery schedule? In the press, the Belgian industry – in line with our concerns expressed on many occasions – expressed its deep concern and the fact that it still saw nothing coming. It is indeed a particularly important sector in our country, especially in Wallonia. If, since then, Lockheed Martin has announced that he will keep his long-term promises of economic benefits, can you already take a first look at them? Do we know more about the place of production of the F-35s ordered by Belgium? What about the contacts between your department, the SPF Economy and the federated entities? During the previous parliamentary term, the Prime Minister told us in plenary session that, I quote: "This will allow us, for more than 300 million euros, to set aside an envelope to be on the front line for these European defence projects that require innovation, research and development." What's the status of this? Have any money ever been released? Do you confirm the information that the first F-35s will arrive at Florennes Air Force Base? Can you give me the timetable and the budgets for the infrastructure works that will be needed both in Florennes and later in Kleine-Brogel?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u22	Minister, allow me to join my colleagues in congratulating you on your appointment to this very important position as Commissioner for Justice and the Rule of Law. Much has been said about this sad new title of European Commissioner for the Protection of European Lifestyles and I hope that you will be able to protect the rule of law and the values dear to us. Minister, the press reported this summer that, according to a 2017 material management plan F-16, the F-16s would be adapted to integrate new digital nuclear weapons. Could you send us the contents of this internal document to Defence? What is the financial cost of this adaptation of the F-16s to the Belgian State? Is it a matter of transporting only new nuclear bombs of type B61-12 or also other categories of nuclear weapons? During the transitional phase between 2022 – the end of the adaptation of the F-16 – and 2029 – delivery of the last F-35 – which aircraft will be used first? In other words, what will be the period of employment of the F-16s so modernized? Finally, and we had already talked about this at the beginning of the summer, what levers does Parliament have to freeze the decision on future F-35 developments related to new nuclear weapons?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u23	Mr Lacroix, in budgetary terms, EUR 4 011 417 989 were committed after the decision taken by the government on 25 October 2018 to award to the US government the contract for the replacement of Belgian F-16s by F-35 As. To date, an amount equivalent to €173,836,499 has been paid to the US Government in accordance with the contractual payment schedule. The contractual delivery schedule provides for the supply of aircraft between 2023 and 2030 at a rate of four aircraft per year, except in 2028 and 2029 – where five aircraft will be delivered. The first F-35 A will arrive well at the base of Florennes in 2025. The delivery of the first aircraft to Kleine-Brogel will follow about two years later. With regard to the current review of the implementation of the measures relating to the protection of essential security interests (ESI), I would refer you to my colleague in charge of the Economy, who is responsible for monitoring this aspect. Nevertheless, I can already confirm that the Defence is actively collaborating with the SPF Economy in order to best support the Belgian actors concerned in making the proposed ESI measures effective. However, it is up to the latter to study in detail the opportunities offered – be they industrial or focused on research and development – and to put them into practice. Some of them have been translated into contracts, while others are in a very advanced phase. In this context, at the time of the award of the contract, the Federal Government has provided for an amount of EUR 277 million in the form of repayable advances, in order to help the actors concerned to materialise the measures in question. With regard to the contacts between the federated entities, the SPF Economy and my department have met on several occasions within the inter-federal platform for consultation, which brings together representatives of the three Regions and industrial organisations to monitor the implementation of the proposed opportunities. These meetings were organized at the initiative of the SPF Economy in collaboration with Defence. So far, we have seen a number of concrete proposals develop, but there is a very strong insistence, notably from the Defence to Lockheed Martin, that progress be made in realizing the benefits for the Belgian industry. I would say that it is the same work that is done – I will also ask for a presentation on this – in the other contracts that have been awarded, whether for the motorized capacity for the land force or in the framework of the new orders for the navy. Every time, efforts are made to ensure that operations progress. Like me, you have seen that, on the industrial side, a little more positive signals are now appearing. You talked about the weapons industry in Wallonia. With the establishment of the new Walloon government, I assume that support will be able to develop in common, in a very active way, in favour of this sector. With regard to the European defence project, the potential avenues are under consideration, but no financial commitment has been made to date. In order to accommodate the F-35, it is essential that the infrastructure be ready on time. My department is therefore preparing a public works contract for the study and construction of an F-35 complex on each of the two bases from which the Belgian F-35 A will operate. In this context, a pre-publication notice announcing a future contract was issued at the end of June this year. As announced in this pre-publication, construction is planned in Florennes between 2022 and 2024 and Kleine-Brogel between 2024 and 2026. The total budget required is estimated at €275 million including VAT. Mr Cogolati, first of all, I thank you for the congratulations you have extended to me in the context of possible future European functions. I would be very happy to be able to work there with the support of your group in the European Parliament. With respect to the Material Management Plan, it is an annually updated evolutionary document that allows materiel managers to document the maintenance and evolution policy of the weapons system. For the updating of the F-16s, working papers are prepared and validated by the relevant levels. Of course, we do not know what version of the documents that are sometimes referred to in the media. The adaptation of F-16s is part of a software evolution that covers several systems and therefore different applications. The total cost of the software update is EUR 25 million. The F-16 will be operationally used at least until 2028, when the F-35 will have full operational capability. Of course, some decisions on these issues will have to be taken by the next government, under the control of Parliament. In this context, you are asking for certain information contained in the documents; I am quite available to give a briefing on the subject, but within the framework of the Committee on Military Procurement. I think this is the best way forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u24	Mr President, I would like to thank the minister for the precise answers he has given me. My group and I, of course, remain a little concerned about our hunger with regard to the point of view on European defence. We will see with the next government and remain vigilant on this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u25	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The vagueness is of course high on the EUR 25 million spent on updating F-16 fighter jets so that they can carry US nuclear weapons. Where appropriate, the use of Belgian public money should be condemned for this purpose. We are just trying to eradicate these weapons on the international stage. Moreover, this seems to be difficult to achieve over a short period of time, by 2028. It seems to me that this may be a waste of money.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u26	Mr De Roover apologizes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u27	Minister, we have heard a few things about Operation Sentinel this morning. I will briefly repeat the main points in this public hearing. Maritime freight traffic through the Strait of Hormuz and the Strait of Bab el-Mandeb is important. These maritime routes are also very important for the Belgian economy and the Flemish ports, a focal point in our country's economic fabric. There are a lot of problems out there right now. The Pentagon wants to secure the crucial sailing routes in the Gulf with the widest possible international military presence, to reduce the risk of military escalation and to responsive the allies. However, the Sentinel operation is received lukewarmly internationally and, with the exception of the United Kingdom, Bahrain, Israel and Australia, there are still no concrete commitments from other countries. Mr. Secretary, has the Defense Department already fully investigated the possible slopes for participation in Operation Sentinel? If so, what are the findings? Secondly, the frigate Leopold I is still in the Standing NATO Maritime Group until November. What other assets of the Defense Department can be deployed? What is the earliest possible date for their development? Thirdly, boarding the British oil tanker Stena Impero was a warning to all users of the Street, including many ships under the Belgian flag or with our ports as final destination. In that sense, I would like to know whether military surveillance on board is an option. France and Germany have already excluded participation in Sentinel and wish to focus on a European mission. What position has Belgium taken in this story? Finally, the Netherlands wants to help the Americans. Are you in contact with your Dutch colleague? Is a Belgian-Dutch collaboration possible, a mission in the field of BeNeSam?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u28	Mr Minister, on behalf of my group, let me first express my congratulations on your new position. We wish you every success and we hope to welcome you here regularly in your new capacity so that we can discuss with you the state of the rule of law in Europe. We can never pay enough attention to that. The same goes for the Street of Hormuz. As Mr Francken pointed out, this is a very important discussion. It's a nerve that's exposed in a very sensitive region. Any conflict that threatens to escalate there has disastrous consequences. The Strait of Hormuz is also very important for our economy with the passage of many cargo ships. When we heard in the newspaper that you were asked by the United States to provide military support for a security operation in that region, we immediately asked that this be discussed in Parliament, because it is a very fundamental question. It is important that we take a question from an ally seriously, but that does not mean that a question from America is simply slavishly accepted as to whether the US is blindly following their strategy. For us, it is important for this discussion to have very clear guidelines, which are three-fold. Firstly, there are increasing tensions with Iran. First of all, we must do everything we can to safeguard the nuclear agreement. That is why we are different from America, that there has been one-sided exit. Secondly, it is important that we ensure an open and safe passage of our shipping. That is why we must make it clear from the EU and from our country that we are there and that we are not going to let it go superficially, because it is an important discussion. Thirdly, in this debate we must adopt a de-escalation strategy and not increase tensions. That is also a difference from President Trump's strategy. Belgium is more on the diplomatic line of President Macron, who certainly does not want to neglect the diplomatic strategy. I have the following questions, Minister. Can you clarify the question for us? What countries have asked us such questions and what specific questions have been asked? It is said that this has just been discussed in the special committee responsible for the follow-up of foreign missions, but in principle there are ongoing military missions and not discussions that have not yet been held in Parliament. What military tasks for the Belgian army and what concrete means are you thinking of? Under what circumstances and conditions would it be conceivable that Belgium should contribute? As far as the conditions are concerned, how do you fit such a contribution within international law, because there is also discussion about this? That's important, isn't it? You, as future European Commissioner, will not be insensitive to respect for general principles in this area too. How do you evaluate this discussion in the wider context of safeguarding the nuclear agreement with Iran? My next question is in line with what Mr Francken has already said. On the one hand, there is this question from the United States, but on the other hand, there are European initiatives. Is it conceivable for you that Belgium, outside the European context, should commit to the American question or stick to a European scenario? The Netherlands has given the signal: to want to stick to a European framework initiative. Has our country taken initiatives in the UN Security Council? Has our country taken a stand there yet? If so, which one? Finally, Minister, do you agree with us that such a decision cannot be taken by a government in current affairs, but that it requires Parliament's approval? I assume that the government in current affairs and the future government will proactively report all relevant developments in this discussion to Parliament, so that we do not have to conduct the discussion on the basis of newspaper reports.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, my first comment may be for the Foreign Affairs Committee rather than for the Defence Committee, but this is a double issue. First, I want to say something about Iran. I have already said that, like all European countries, we are trying to implement the JCPoA correctly, the nuclear deal with Iran. That is not easy, especially after President Trump's decision to withdraw from that agreement. We are now trying to take concrete measures, including to support the companies working with Iran. I asked for a presentation to be made in the Foreign Affairs Committee and then to go further with our partners at European level in the defence of the JCPoA. But we must also put pressure on Iran. In recent weeks and days, we have seen a bad development with the possible reconstruction of nuclear capacity. So we are not on the same page as the United States. We call for the proper implementation of that agreement, including by Iran. That is part of the question concerning security in the Strait of Hormuz. Do we want a de-escalation, or do we need a military presence, with a number of risks? Secondly, Belgium was officially invited by diplomatic means on 19 July 2019 to participate in the maritime shipping security operation, Operation Sentinel, in the Strait of Hormuz. On the basis of this formal question and information obtained at two conferences in August, the military analysis process was formally launched and the results were presented to me. A balance between a de-escalating attitude and additional security measures is necessary in case of deployment. Taking into account the possible impact on Belgian ships and EU cooperation, participation in an EU-led operation seems most appropriate. I said this to my colleagues in the defence and foreign affairs field at the last informal meeting at European level in Helsinki, which was at the end of August. We have received a question from the United States and then from Great Britain. Great Britain and the United States are now working together in the same operation, so there is no separate question of Britain anymore. However, we call for a European approach. I have already said it in the committee responsible for the follow-up of foreign missions. We have seen an initiative by France and Germany to do something at European level. We are prepared to consider what actions Belgium can take in such a European operation. Several initiatives from EU countries are still being discussed in the European institutions. A possible Belgian contribution will be studied in the framework of these initiatives. The possible use of a Dutch frigate for operation-Sentinel has no impact on the Belgian-Dutch maritime cooperation. There have only been contacts at the level of the Defence Staff. The use of an Autonomous Vessel Protection Detachment is intended against piracy and not against state actors. There is a small difference between operations in the past and possible operations in the present. It is also true that there is also a legal problem. The legal framework is unclear so that the use of an Autonomous Vessel Protection Detachment can be contested in the event of an incident. For possible participation in operations, it is therefore important to think of an international mandate or an answer to all questions related to a lack of an international mandate. Finally, Mr President, we in the committee, together with the Staff, gave details of the operations. It seems very useful to me to have contact with Parliament as early as possible. I believe that a proper preparation of a possible decision in the next few weeks or months presupposes that Parliament receives all possible information. I will not repeat all the details of the possible use of our defence in any European operations. However, the same reasoning remains valid: either we send a ship, or soldiers, or both together. So far we have no concrete data on a possible European mission. I will come back to committee as soon as I have more details so that we can have a debate on this. This seems logical to me. We can, of course, always send out a single military mission, anywhere in the world, without having to debate it, but participation in a large-scale operation presupposes that the committee is informed and can even approve it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u30	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I welcome the fact that we are at our disposal. I think it is right that you should ask for a sensible, rational approach where we know what we are doing. A story in which we board Belgian ships is not appropriate. There is not the right legal framework for this either, because it is an action against piracy and not against countries. We need to be careful with this. I believe that we must shoulder our responsibilities. In the context of global maritime traffic, our major economic poles, the ports of Antwerp and Zeebrugge, and our economy in general, the preservation of our sailing routes is of course crucial. We have on average five Belgian ships on site. A quarter of our oil supply comes from that region or goes through the Strait of Hormuz. So I think we can give a positive answer. Of course, there has to be material. It has to be possible. I understand there's one frigate involved in another operation right now. So I think we can respond positively if it escalates further. In the last few weeks, it's been a little quieter. We need to follow up. I am convinced that the general staff, your cabinet and yourself are watching this very closely. If it ever comes to being asked to participate in such an operation, we as N-VA are prepared to discuss it on the substance in committee, whether behind closed doors or not. We have given our support to foreign missions more often during periods of ongoing business. That is not taboo for us. We are the largest group in this Chamber and are certainly prepared to continue this debate and see what is best for our national security, but also for the Belgian economy, the safety and the economy in Flanders, more specifically in ports. You know there's an important mayor in a port town in this country, which I consider rather high. I think it is very important that we ensure that the economy continues to run at full speed. This also means ensuring that we secure the important shipping routes internationally in the maritime field. If you have to do that with Belgian Defense, you have to do it with Belgian Defense. So we will certainly be prepared to enter into that debate. The question must, of course, be concrete and feasible for our material and for our people. After all, much is already being asked of them. You will always find an ally in us, Minister, when it comes to securing maritime shipping routes that are so crucial for our Western European, Flemish and Belgian economies.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u31	It was about the city of Antwerp, so I suspect Mrs Kherbache has something to say about this too.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u32	Of course, I'm attracted. I was very pleased with your reply, Minister. In the discussion over the last few days about the Street of Hormuz, it is always about taking responsibility and who does and who does not want to take responsibility. I understand from your answer that we must take this debate seriously and that our country wants to take its responsibility, but not in an irresponsible way. That is why I have noted that you indicated that it is right to work on a European framework and not blindly follow the US strategy. We are also setting this up in a broader discussion of de-escalation and ensuring a nuclear agreement. We are, of course, looking at Iran. Finally, we cannot simply sidestep the legal questions. It would be rather contradictory to ask, on the one hand, at international level that countries respect international law, but, on the other hand, that we wipe our feet on it. That attitude would not really be consistent. We can count on you, even in your future position, to watch carefully over the foregoing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u33	Minister, last April, military unions denounced the fact that nearly 2,000 Belgian soldiers in Kandahar, Afghanistan, had been exposed to toxic smoke from an open-air incineration pit. These inquisitive revelations once again illustrate, if necessary, the importance of the text of my colleague Jacques Chabot adopted under the previous legislature and calling for the establishment of a real psychosocial follow-up of the Belgian military before, during and after their missions. A structural and integrated approach is indeed essential before, during and after all the operations in which our military is involved. Minister, what answers and follow-up have you given to these revelations about the Belgian mission in Afghanistan? What follow-up have you given or intend to give, in particular at Parliament level, to the various requests contained in this parliamentary resolution which I mentioned earlier? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u34	Mr. Lacroix, the Chief of Defence announced an action plan that aims to improve overall management and management of health risks in operation in the short, medium and long term, both at the operational and individual level. For more details on this action plan, I invite you to read my answer to MP Kurt Ravyts' written question 5 dated July 10. It is at your disposal. As discussed in the Chamber at the December 12, 2018 hearing, maintaining staff balance and mental health has always been a priority for Defence. The support provided to serving members is in three stages (before, during and after the mission) and includes, in addition to the physical aspect, various mental aspects such as the psychological, social and spiritual aspect. With a view to continuous improvement, the psychosocial, moral and religious platform composed of the various defence support services regularly analyses the processes and support structure available to Defence. This analysis is part of the requests contained in the parliamentary resolution adopted, as you recalled, on 21 February. The psychosocial risk management processes at work in Belgium and in family support operations and psychotherapeutic follow-up are thus reviewed and tasks redistributed in order to further improve the existing structure. I had the opportunity, as I said, to clarify a little bit the elements in the answer to a written parliamentary question. I believe that at the time of the forthcoming meeting with the General Staff and the CHOD in your committee, it will also be possible to look back on the concrete elements of this plan, which was launched to be implemented not only in the short term but also in the medium and long term in order to ensure the psychosocial follow-up of our military.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u35	Minister, thank you for these answers. We will, of course, pay attention to the fact that the resolution adopted in February is followed by facts and actions, which seems to be the case in part. We will see how, with the staff, parliamentarians can be a lever to the government to release, if necessary, the ad hoc means.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u36	Mr Minister, in the past our group has raised a number of questions about the problem of the disruption of radar installations by windmills. The presence of radars constitutes a serious obstacle to the installation of offshore wind installations. The previous minister, Mr Vandeput, had a great deal of sympathy for this, but he always referred to future investments. We therefore welcomed the fact that we could read in the report of the Council of Ministers that there were purchases of Instrument Landing Systems in the bases of Bevekom, Kleine-Brogel and Florennes, because we thought that this would be the solution. In the meantime, we understand that there should be no radar system as such included in the Instrument Landing Systems. We have heard from the press that works are planned for the arrival of the F-35 in the bases of Kleine-Brogel and Florennes, including a new air traffic tower. Mr Minister, do the Instrument Landing Systems purchased have any influence on the existing fence for the installation of windmills around the bases? If not, are other investments planned, so that more windmills can be implanted in the vicinity of the relevant bases in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u37	Mr Verduyckt, the current military Airfield Surveillance Radar Systems dates back to the early 1980s, but they were equipped with a filter system to combat interference from windmills, among others, from 2013 to today. The replacement of that type of radar system shall be provided from 2029 onwards. The installation of windmills will be charged. The current file on the purchase and installation of Instrument Landing Systems on the bases of Bevekom, Kleine-Brogel and Florennes will not create any practical obstacles to the construction of windmills. Each ILS will be equipped to combat interference from windmills, as described in the International Civil Aviation Organisation Directive. In addition, the area of an ILS falls within the statutory protection areas of the military airports. For each new windmill to be built, a study should be carried out, in accordance with Eurocontrol's directive, which calculates the effective impact. I can tell you that we have already taken decisions to provide more facilities for companies and associations wishing to build a new windmill. We work with the current radar systems, as the new systems are planned for the following years. Since the technical capacity of the radar systems is not yet known by 2029, it is unfortunately not possible to estimate the impact on a possible circuit of fences for windmills today. I repeat that in recent months we have given a number of new facilities to a number of companies and associations that want to build more windmills.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We will continue to follow the file. After all, it is important. The rules we are talking about here are rules that are characterised by considerable scope for investment in green energy. I assume that we are all in favour of this. In this sense, it is a win-win situation for security and for our climate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u39	The following question, namely Question No 5, is addressed to the Commission: 82c, is a question of my own. Is it right for the committee to ask my question from the chair? [[Permission granted.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u40	Mr President, in his speech on the day before the French national holiday, the French President, Mr Macron, referred to the creation of a true French space force. Paris participates in the so-called race for space, and much has already been written about it, which just a year ago started by US President Trump with his Space Force initiative. Many details are not yet available as far as I know, but the French space force would be integrated into the air force and mainly aim to protect the interests of space, such as vital communication satellites, against a perceived threat from, among other things, Russia. Last year, Paris already invested EUR 3.6 billion to better secure its network against Russian espionage. More than thirty years after Ronald Reagans Star Wars initiative, the great powers are now taking some effective steps towards the militarisation of the universe. I have a few questions on this, Minister. Given our position as a neighbouring country and the far-reaching military cooperation, including in satellite programmes, this also involves Belgian interests. Have there been any contacts between the French Government and your cabinet on this project or on any intra-European cooperation? The French plans will be there more than a month after NATO announced a strategy in which after cyber space will also be declared operational. Do you think that the French plan is compatible with the NATO strategy? What was the attitude of the outgoing government at the June meeting when the project was proposed or more recent? What are the possible guidelines for the December Summit? Finally, in our country, several vital elements are being created for the French aerospace industry. How do you estimate the impact of this evolution on the sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u41	Mr Buysrogge, for the sake of clarity, France has not created a space force, but it brings the already existing command interarmées de l'espace to the Armée de l'air. The new entity will be called the Armée de l'air et de l'espace and its workforce will double compared to the existing Commandement interarmées de l'espace (CIE). The French parliamentary mission which examined the defence space sector prior to the announcement of the reform did not consult Belgium. At the military level, too, Defense was not informed of the reform. The Composant Spatial Optique Project (CSO) is implemented under a bilateral agreement and is thus independent of the proposed French reform. However, it is clear that the new capacity will be an integral part of the new French command. NATO has not officially announced its global space policy, which is still under preparation. The ongoing discussions within NATO are aimed at defining a common policy, in line with the vision of the 29 members, including France. Defence participates in several preparatory workshops for NATO's new space policy. The possible implications of this policy are still being analysed at NATO and Belgian level and will be presented and communicated at the NATO Summit in December sometime in October. The increase in French expenditure in the military space sector can have a positive impact on the Belgian space industry. However, it should be noted that some contracts awarded in Belgium by the French military space sector remain dependent on BELSPO's investments under the CSO programme. No comparable return is expected from the other French programmes in which Belgium is not involved. Its opening-up to foreign industries is likely to be more cautious than for other European-scale scientific or commercial programmes. There is a French Commissioner-designate, Mrs Sylvie Goulard, who would normally be responsible for industrial policy including defence and possibly the space sector. I believe that this will go in the same direction as has been the case so far in the case of French.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u42	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I understand that there has actually been no concrete consultation in advance, but that there are all kinds of things going on within NATO at the moment. You know that space will be a future battle scene, if it isn't already. Not only in the commercial but also in the military and strategic field, space is one of the future theatres. It is therefore important for the future government to position itself there. It must be aware that this is a strategic place, not only because of the coordination that can take place from space but also because of our economic interests there. We're lucky we have a lot of technological players. We have a lot of know-how in terms of space on our territory. So I do not like to hear you say that certain investments may be somewhat shielded from the Belgian industry. If we can force an opening in France to bring our economic assets to the fore, that is a task for all of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u43	Minister, the Dutch Minister for Defence, Ank Bijleveld, is planning an additional investment of 1.5 billion in the Dutch army. Most of them go to an additional purchase disc for F-35 devices, but the remaining money goes to better working conditions for the staff. On the one hand, it can be said that the Dutch army is in the same situation as our army. For 30 years, too, there has been considerable savings in the army, resulting in a drop in the workforce. On the other hand, it is striking that the Netherlands is much faster in its efforts to rebuild its armed forces. According to the Dutch Defence Department, the 37 F-35 devices provided were insufficient to carry out its tasks. In addition, NATO had requested that the Netherlands purchase a complete additional squadron of 15 aircraft. Hence my next questions. Firstly, has NATO already expressed its expectation of a Belgian buying disc for the F-35 or other fighter aircraft? Secondly, 37 aircraft are not sufficient for the Dutch contract. This is remarkable, because in recent years Belgium and the Netherlands have very often performed a similar type of assignments, often together or in a variety of different ways. For our country, it seems that 34 aircraft are sufficient for that? Or will we carry out assignments in a different way than the Dutch colleagues? Thirdly, the Netherlands sees better working conditions as a necessary measure for the reconstruction of its army. Are you making the same analysis for our country? What steps can be taken to achieve this?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u44	Mrs Depraetere, NATO regularly looks at the potential threats and, on the basis of the political guidelines, draws up the needs to deal with them. These needs are then spread over the Allies in a proportionate manner through the NATO Defence Planning Process. With the purchase of 34 new fighters, as laid down in the 2016 strategic vision, Belgium does not meet the effort of 45 aircraft requested by NATO partners. In recent decades Belgium and the Netherlands have indeed carried out similar tasks, especially with fighter planes. In the strategic vision, the purchase of 34 combat equipment was put forward as a new interpretation of the fighting capacity in the air. As a result, however, it is a fact that Belgium's expeditionary ambition level will have to be reduced from 10 F-16 devices today to 6 F-35 devices later unfoldable for long-term use. More than this is mathematically impossible. A similar analysis has been carried out within the Belgian Defence Department, but the situation is not fully comparable. Although defence has been saved over the last 30 years, in both countries, its size and impact has been much greater in Belgium. By way of illustration, since 2010, the average defence effort in the Netherlands has been 1,21 % of GDP, with an increasing trend since 2015 to 1,35 % of GDP in 2018; compared to an average of 0,98 % of GDP for Belgium, with a first falling and subsequently rising trend since 2017 to 0,91 % of GDP in 2018. This has had an important impact, among other things, on the state of infrastructure and the means of operation with the known consequences in terms of preparedness and general working conditions. Moreover, Belgium has an unbalanced age pyramid in its staff structure. The ageing wave is coming, measures have been taken in the previous legislature and others are being proposed for the future. This includes, inter alia, maximising recruitment and sourcing for tasks that do not require military experience or expertise. A number of additional initiatives are already being developed in the field of human resources. This includes diversification of the inflow, optimisation of the existing population, work-life balance and individual support of the individual. In view of the evolution of the labour market, measures to improve working conditions must also be part of the attraction of the military profession. This also requires investment in other areas such as infrastructure, operating equipment and training. The advent of new systems is an excellent opportunity. Underlying these investments is the staff needed to work with the new equipment, the new usage concepts that will have an impact on the organisational structure, the maintenance of the new weapon systems that will be organised in a different way and the infrastructure that will be adapted to accommodate these weapon systems. Training concepts will also evolve and strategic partnerships will have an impact on the number of staff to be deployed abroad. In the future, therefore, defence must be characterised by modern equipment, an attractive working environment, competitive remuneration, balanced regional implantation, a modern professional framework that takes into account the potential and ambitions of the workforce, and the balance between work and private life. This recapitalisation in the field of staff therefore constitutes a set of converging measures, which mutually reinforce each other. It will be a task for the new government and Parliament to continue the analysis of the increase in defence spending, based on the 2030 vision and perhaps also on a number of new defence challenges.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u45	Minister, when I hear the list, I think that the challenges for the next government and minister are enormous, that there is a lot of work to be done in the Department of Defence. This is partly due to the fact that this legislative period has been saved in the defence sector, despite investments that will be partly paid off during the next legislative period and which still have a very large impact. This is not only about the domain operations but also about the domain staff. Also in view of today's reports, urgent and rapid steps must be taken there.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u46	Mr Minister, my question is very brief. The Turkish order of the F-35s is cancelled because of the purchase of a Russian missile defence system. Turkey would purchase 30 aircraft in a first phase and increase that number significantly later. The removal of Turkey from the programme will incur additional costs of EUR 500 million. That is why I have the following questions. Firstly, does the American decision affect our Belgian purchase in budgetary terms? How will the additional costs be met? Does this happen from other countries that are still in the programme? In industrial terms, Turkey will lose a number of industrial contracts. How are these contracts redistributed? Does that increase the chance for our country to win some contracts? Secondly, what will happen to the ordered devices? The Netherlands decided almost simultaneously to buy an additional purchase disc. Is there a connection between both decisions? Are Turkish aircraft offered to other countries at a cheaper price?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u47	Mrs Depraetere, the cost of EUR 500 million, to which reference is made, is the price of possibly starting up Turkey's current production capacity elsewhere. We do not currently have any elements or indications that would show that there would be possible consequences for the Belgian purchase. If the industrial contracts with Turkey were terminated, opportunities might arise for other partners, including possibly Belgium. Today, however, it is too early to be able to judge. We do not know the final destination of the appliances ordered by Turkey or their price. Nor do we know whether there is any connection with the additional devices that the Netherlands wishes to order. We are waiting for more information on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u48	Thank you, Minister. I have read recently that it is apparently very difficult and not obvious for our country to bring in the industrial contracts. There is still work to be done in this area. I hope there may be an extra opportunity here. In any case, we will continue to follow up on the dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u49	Debates of the European Parliament 125c by Mrs Ponthier was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Mrs Ponthier's 127c were postponed. Agenda item No. 13 has been treated. Debates of the European Parliament 178c) by Mr Creyelman and Mr Creyelman, on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Debates of the European Parliament President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 376c by Mr Verduyckt are also postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u50	This summer, the CHOD, General Compernol, spoke out about the major deficits within the Defense Department. According to him, Defense would need no less than EUR 2.4 billion extra. These additional budgets serve, inter alia, the recruitment of new staff, for operations, but also to cover costs associated with investment. Contracts have already been concluded for a large number of investments. But for the purchase of two new frigates, that is not the case to this day. The lack of a contract, and therefore the legal obligation and the call for extra budget, cause a great deal of concern to our Dutch colleagues, but no doubt also to our own defence. I would like to have an answer to my questions. What is the status of this file? Do you expect the contract to be signed soon? If so, when? Have you had contact with the Dutch colleagues on this matter since the summer? Finally, why is the file slowing down so much?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u51	Mr Minister, I have just asked a question about the general budgetary situation of defence. This question is in fact in line with this. The previous government decided to buy two new frigates, together with the Dutch Navy, within the framework of the investment programme for Defence. According to an article on a Dutch website, there has been unrest in the Netherlands about the fact that Belgium will be able to fulfil its obligation in this area. For example, it is pointed out that no contract has yet been signed between the Netherlands and Belgium. There's already a MoU. We are also concerned about the state of the Belgian defence budget in general. That's why I have a few questions for you. What's the status of the frigates' file? The MoU with the Netherlands was signed on 8 June 2018. When will the contracts be signed with Daymon? The purchase of the frigates amounts to EUR 1.23 billion. Is there sufficient budget under unchanged policies to enable this purchase to be completed in the coming years? Will additional funds need to be sought for this investment? The MoU contains an expenditure ceiling for the purchase of the frigates. Meanwhile, there has been a lot of time between the signing of the contract and the signing of the contract. Do you have any indications that the frigates may cost more than originally foreseen? What if, before the signing of the contract, it appeared that the envisaged budget would not be sufficient? Has the Dutch Government expressed any concern about this dossier and the Belgian obligations in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u52	During the previous parliamentary term, it had been decided to invest €9.2 billion in new equipment, and this was achieved by making huge savings, not only in social security but also in public postal budgets. Among these expenses, one of the largest was used to purchase the F-35s. However, the government has also made a decision to spend money on the purchase of drones, armoured cars and new ships for the navy. Belgium is working with the Netherlands to purchase these new vessels. A contract of 900 million euros has already been signed for the acquisition of new mine hunters. With regard to the frigates, whose budget is EUR 1 billion, only a memorandum of understanding has been drawn up so far. The Dutch navy is also concerned because Belgian Defence is facing a budget deficit. As was said earlier, the Chief of Defence pleaded for an additional investment of 2.4 billion euros in new equipment. We have a few questions about this. When is the contract for the purchase of frigates expected to be signed? Does the government in day-to-day affairs, in your opinion, have the necessary jurisdiction to sign such a contract? Could a new government give up this acquisition? What will be the consequences if the price of frigates exceeds the budget? How do you communicate with your Dutch counterpart on this file?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u53	I shall begin with a first point, Mrs Moscufo. I don't know if this is due to the digitalization of the House, but we systematically receive your questions in Dutch. I therefore believe that my services respond in the same language. So you will excuse me for answering essentially in Dutch. I'm still going to have to check it out. I'm not saying there's a problem, but I'm still trying to answer in the language of the person asking the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u54	Minister, this is not very important. So, you know that for the next time. It was indicated that I would ask the question in French, but you can answer in Dutch. The translators are perfect here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u55	We'll pay attention to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u56	Mr Minister, the oral question tabled was drawn up in Dutch. You can answer in Dutch.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u57	Mr President, I have no objection to the fact that oral questions are put in Dutch. I do try to pay attention to any sensitivities. But Mr Lacroix can also put a question in Dutch. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 8 June 2018, a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed by the former Minister of Defence, Steven Vandeput, and the Minister of Defence of the Netherlands for the joint replacement of the M-frigates operating in the womb of both Navys. When the Memorandum of Understanding was signed in 2018, the government was in full power. Since the date of signature, the study and design activity has started in the womb of a binationally composed project team. The implementation of the programme is based on a study phase, followed by an acquisition phase, entirely in accordance with the mutual agreements laid down in the Memorandum of Understanding and the acquisition strategy. During the current study phase, several contracts are concluded by the Dutch government, after coordination with the Belgian Defence Staff, for studies and development by various knowledge centres and industry. The main contract with the yard will be concluded at the end of the acquisition phase on the basis of the Dutch acquisition procedures, in accordance with binational agreements in the acquisition strategy. There is no significant delay in that programme. All agreements, as laid down in the Memorandum of Understanding, are accepted by the Dutch partner and the signature of the main contract with the shipyard will take place once the Dutch acquisition procedures have been completed. As stipulated in the Memorandum of Understanding, the progress of that Belgian-Dutch joint investment programme is monitored at three levels, in particular by a joint steering committee, a programme office and specialised working groups. The Belgian Defence Staff is represented at the various levels. The cost ceiling is also laid down in the Memorandum of Understanding. One of the tasks of the binational programme office is to implement the Memorandum of Understanding within that set cost ceiling, respecting the objectives in the womb of the Memorandum of Understanding. During the current study phase, different design iterations are carried out to achieve a design that falls within the cost ceiling. Within the joint steering committee and the programme office, no concerns have yet been expressed regarding that dossier and the related Belgian obligations. The breaking of the Memorandum of Understanding by one of the two governments is always possible, but this will, in addition to the serious contractual consequences, put a mortgage on binational cooperation with our Dutch partner. In other cases that appeared a while ago, it was decided to present them simultaneously to the Council of Ministers and Parliament. As the current government has only 38 seats in the Chamber in current cases, it is impossible to take decisions without consulting Parliament. For long-term cases, it may be necessary to use the same procedure. However, it is foreseen for 2020 and I hope that a government with full competence will then be able to take the decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u58	For purchase files, Parliament must always be involved, not only in current cases but also in full-time cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u59	Mr President, Minister, what is the deadline for the proper conclusion of the contract? I did not receive an answer to that question. In the case of other purchases, that deadline was always clearly stated. Now that is not the case and it gives the impression that there is a delay.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u60	There's no real deadline. We are now waiting for the end of the political process in the Netherlands, just as we have done in Belgium for another dossier. So we wait without a real deadline for the procedure in the Netherlands, then we can proceed to a contract.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u61	Of course, we will continue to follow that up. In any case, we can understand the Dutch concern. We are in a difficult political period, with a government in current affairs and without a direct view of a new government, although that can change quickly. In addition, there are many signals about budgetary difficulties. There is therefore an absolute understanding of this concern there. I hope that we will soon be able to take further steps on this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u62	Mr President, Minister, it is a good thing that you have put things in perspective and put forward a number of elements. I have noted that you stress that the Dutch acquisition procedure is still under way, that this is one of the steps that must be completed before the contract can be signed and that the cost cap remains in place and that this is the condition within which it can be worked. This is important, also for my group, because we believe that the Navy is really one of the sectors of our defence in which further investment can be made. It's an important component of the Defense Department. We have extensive cooperation with the Netherlands, which is still an example in Europe. So we certainly have to honour the commitments made and keep a close eye on the sector in order to be able to specialise further.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u63	Mr President, we really hope that the costs will not exceed what was planned and we will pay attention to them, because at the PTB, we also see that when the costs increase at that level, it is always at the social level that this is paid. We will therefore remain vigilant in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u64	Minister, Congolese President Félix Tshisekedi will be on an official visit to our country in mid-September. Belgium had no longer received an official visit from a Congolese president since 2007, in recent years having been marked by diplomatic tensions between our two countries, which had led, inter alia, to the end of a long and important military cooperation, following a decision by the Congolese government. As you know, my group has always welcomed the cooperation between our two countries and the expertise of our army in this field, both in terms of training and cooperation with Enabel. I would therefore like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. During this official visit, will the possible resumption of military cooperation between our two countries be mentioned? In this context, has a consultation between Defence and Enabel been established, with a view to integrating possible new partnerships into an essential global dimension?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u65	Mr Lacroix, since the joint Defence-Foreign Affairs mission undertaken last May in Kinshasa - opening up the resumption of cooperation relations with the Democratic Republic of the Congo - the Defence is planning a gradual resumption of military cooperation with that country. The General Staff is currently exploring possible avenues for its implementation. The issue will be on the agenda of meetings with President Tshisekedi next week. A general framework agreement between Defence and Enabel was signed on February 12. The result is specific agreements that allow for efficient synchronization of cooperation with certain countries. In the case of the DRC, contacts will be made according to the nature of future projects. As I have mentioned, we are obviously looking at training, but also at potential local operations, in the form of support for the organization of the armed forces of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. I am thinking in particular of their staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u66	Minister, thank you for your answer, noting with satisfaction that there is now a question of a gradual resumption of military cooperation between these two countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u67	Minister, our soldiers have been on the streets for five years now. Operation Vigilant Guardian started to support the police. After all, it had insufficient capacity. Today, however, things have changed. The general threat level has been for a while now 2. Today we could still read that the army itself has personnel problems. The Major General of the Army, Mr. Thys, has indicated that some people even leave the army for this kind of operation. Minister, is it not time to stop this operation permanently? When will that happen? If we decide not to do so, perhaps it is time to look at extra pay or rest periods for these people. We believe that this long-term operation is not good for the morale of our troops. Mr. Secretary, can you give us your vision?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u68	Mr Verduyckt, as soon as the political decision is taken, it will be possible for Defence to start in the very short term with the complete dismantling of the military security dispositive and its return to the integrated police. The military are rewarded for the duration of the deployment with an allowance on the one hand and a daily allowance on the other. During the execution of the operation, rest periods in function of the tasks to be performed shall be determined by the command. The Homeland operation appears not to be a direct cause for the so-called evacuation of the Defense Department. The figures support this. Of the total number of military personnel who have left Defence since the start of this operation, only 5.4 % indicated that Operation Homeland was the prime reason for them to leave Defence. Despite the fact that our military are doing the Homeland operation in a very loyal and professional way, it is important to realize that this almost structural task has a major impact on the psychosocial burden of the staff. This additional task entails an additional workload on top of the core tasks of Defence for the ever decreasing effectiveness. The division of tasks for the support of Defence to the integrated police is carried out on the basis of a protocol agreement. According to this protocol agreement, military personnel can be deployed from a generally increased threat level 3 or in exceptional circumstances where at least threat level 3 applies to specific sites, depending on the capabilities of the Defence Department and taking into account their own mission and the risks that Defence intends to run. We are still looking with our colleagues in the Interior and with the representatives of the local areas to see if we can move towards a reduction in the deployment of our military. A number of military forces can still stay, because there are still a number of sites with threat level 3, although the general threat level is at 2. I have advocated a reduction, but that means a new division of tasks between federal police and local police in some cities. The contacts are about that. We are therefore prepared to maintain the presence of the military, but perhaps not at the same level, unless questions arise on the basis of a new analysis of the OCAD.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u69	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. A run-out would indeed be too strong, but we have questions as to whether it is good for the morale of the troops. We will therefore continue to look very critically at the assignment, because it certainly plays a role in the current staffing problems. You will soon be leaving for Europe, Minister, and the committee will allow you to do so, but our soldiers will remain on the streets for a while and we wonder what the added value of that will be.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-11-55-commissie-ic007x.u70	Question No 343c by Mr Bayet is transformed into a written question.
