ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u1	Mr President, Minister, over the months we have to see that more and more firefighters and ambulances are being physically and verbally assaulted in their interventions. They are confronted with situations in which they are obliged to leave the premises pending police reinforcements, or even surprised in guets-apens. It cannot be fatal to see that emergency or firefighters must now wait until the premises are secured in order to be able to carry out their intervention and rescue work. The testimonies of these front-line emergency actors require concrete responses from the public authorities, in order to make the perfect diagnosis of situations experienced on the ground and to protect these personnel. Minister, is there a statistical record of acts of aggression against firefighters? Are the situations in which firefighters have to leave the premises without being able to intervene registered and communicated to the police for assessment? What has been the cost of damage to firefighters' equipment in the last three years? Do you have any contact with the Federation of Fire Brigades on this subject? Has an awareness of this issue been established by the Inland FPS with the area directorates, in order to ensure that these facts are reported and to take the necessary measures to identify them? Are the emergency zone directorates systematically complaining about such incidents? Are there any specific directives or even a circular addressed to them by your services? Is specific training for firefighters put in place to ensure their proper response and protection in these situations? Finally, how many sanctions and convictions have been imposed as a result of such attacks, in accordance with the provisions of the Criminal Code for civil security officers?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u2	Mr President, Mr Pivin, thank you for this very important question. Since these are very specific figures, I will send you a written reply as soon as possible, including all the data included in the statistics. I'll take care of it right away.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u3	Mr President, Minister, in the area of security, the policy of prevention and citizen vigilance is essential. The protection of property, the environment of life, is everyone's business. Collaboration between citizens, public authorities and prevention and police services is a key to success at this level. The local prevention partnership (PLP) is a positive tool to structure this civic collaboration and social involvement. It has proved its worth in many communes in our country, especially in Flanders, and to a lesser extent in Wallonia. Today, while more than a thousand PLPs have been created, much remains to be done to promote to the public the benefits of such an organisation for the quality of life and the protection of property and people, especially since this type of arrangement strengthens cohesion within neighbourhoods and enhances trust and communication between citizens and their police forces, particularly neighbourhood inspectors. The same applies to PLPIs which are specific to commercial vigilance to combat, in particular, gang theft or any suspicious action. Minister, could you tell us whether an evaluation of local prevention partnerships has been carried out by your services or by CPPL recently through police crime statistics? How does the Home SPF sensitize local police services to this citizen collaboration mechanism? As of December 31, 2018, how many PLPs and PLPIs have been created in our country, by province and by Region? Finally, how many shops on average are PLPIs composed? What awareness-raising campaign has been carried out for the self-employed and traders, like what has been organised for many years as part of the so-called "rosace operations"?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u4	Mr. Pivin, what you're talking about in your question is under way. More precisely, the administration has launched the tender procedure in the context of a public procurement to obtain the completion of this evaluation. The scope of the analysis to be carried out in this framework is as follows: the aim will be to establish a statistical link between all the objectives explicitly pursued by local preventive partnerships. The Internal SPF does not carry out any specific awareness-raising activities with the police areas. The administration leads a steering committee that meets twice a year to facilitate the exchange of practices and to assess the functioning of PLPs, local prevention partnerships, through feedback. The administration also encourages the provinces to mobilize local actors to create PLP support. In addition, the administration has entered into a partnership with an ASBL, the BIN Kenniscentrum (Knowledge Centre) to ensure, among other things, that local actors, including citizens, are made aware of PLPs. The administration leaves it to the local authorities, both the head of the corps and the mayor, to choose the method to meet this requirement of community policy which they consider most appropriate for their territory in view of their situation in terms of local security. With regard to your third question, given its quantitative nature, I should be grateful if you would address it to me in writing. Considering that this is the case, I will send you a complete answer as soon as possible. With regard to the average number of shops in a PLPI, as my administration does not have such information, it cannot provide you with figures. No awareness-raising campaigns for traders have been conducted nationally. It is up to the municipalities to raise their awareness, once again, of their situation and their local security policy. However, my administration has a website, www.besafe.be, which contains all the necessary information about the local prevention partnership.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u5	Minister, thank you for your full answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u6	Minister, the country's first "self-commissariat" was born in May 2015 in the Sint-Pieters-Leeuw police area. This 3D police counter can allow remote contact with the police services 24 hours a day. If a second police zone in Flanders has recently set up such a window, it appears that these "self-commissariats" have not really seduced the many local police areas in our country. As evidence, in the Brussels Region, there are none today. This type of point of contact with our police services, however, seems to be a useful element in strengthening the protection of our citizens. Minister, has an assessment of the "self-commissariat" been carried out by your services and/or CPPL since 2015? In this context, has a police satisfaction assessment been conducted? Has there been any awareness of this tool among the chiefs of corps in the areas of the country? What is the cost of this equipment? Is the facility exclusively responsible for police areas? How many complaints and reports have been recorded by the self-commissariats? What are the facts that have been reported in this context and how many of these facts have forced a patrol to intervene?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u7	Mr Pivin, the Standing Committee on Local Police (CPPL) did not carry out any evaluation of virtual counters. The concept is booming, at the stage of studies and early implementations. Several police areas are currently working on the tender procedure and are planning to set up and open the first integrated virtual counters in autumn: the Zennevallei police zone (Beersel, Hal and Sint-Pieters-Leeuw), CARMA (As, Bocholt, Bree, Genk, Houthalen-Helchteren, Kinrooi, Oudsbergen, Zutendaal) and the VLAS zone (Courtrai, Kuurne, Lendelede). In addition, according to the virtual window provider, the company is in contact with several police areas. The implementation of a virtual window is a custom work in which various options are possible. There is, among other things, a choice between a 2D or 3D configuration. Price setting therefore depends on many factors. Based on the information in the police database, it is not possible to distinguish between the facts recorded by a police officer in person and those recorded by the virtual counter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u8	Minister, I understand that you are not aware of any signs of interest in police areas in the Walloon Region or in the Brussels Region. You only mentioned Flemish areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u9	At this time, no marks of interest have been communicated to my administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u10	It is a bit curious that this is of interest to only part of the country, even though this system is universal in nature.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u11	We expect the specific results of the operationality of the system.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u12	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u13	Minister, a few weeks ago, I asked you about video protection systems in the infrastructure and vehicles of our public transit companies. Your response indicated that police areas are still unable to view images of STIB's network on-line. This situation is all the more unacceptable as it has been known for years. I would like to remind you that I asked Mrs Grouwels, the regional minister, ten years ago! At the time, she promised me it would be operational the following year. So there are nine more to fill... On Friday, March 8, one person was stabbed in Lemonnier station and the railway police intervened. In addition, STIB staff made a stoppage to report the insecurity on the network, particularly in certain places such as this station. Minister, do you confirm that the railway police were the only ones involved in the aggression that took place on March 8th? Were the local police area services called or intervened in support? Were the facts recorded by video protection cameras? If so, what elements can you already communicate with us, with all due caution, about these recordings? Were reinforcements of our police officers in the metro network requested by STIB services? Have contacts been made with police areas and federal police services to implement specific collaboration in response to the increase in incidents in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u14	Mr President, my colleague, the Railway Police was the first police department to arrive at the scene, at 7:32 p.m., when the call for service 101 arrived at 7:24 p.m. The deadline was therefore eight minutes. At 19:32, the 101 service informed the local police in Brussels-Capital-Ixelles and the local police in the Midi zone of the events. The management of the intervention was taken over in full by the railway police, which was supported by a team of the Brussels-Capital-Ixelles police, in particular used to evacuate the metro station and to establish the judicial exclusion perimeter. The facts were recorded by the surveillance cameras at the station. The exploitation of images is currently under investigation by the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office. In the face of the resurgence of crime in Lemonnier station, joint police operations involving the railway police and the police of the Brussels-Capital-Ixelles police zone have been implemented, since 4 March 2019. These operations also target other metro stations, in order to combat crime, such as theft and drug-related acts.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u15	Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u16	Minister, on the basis of Article 134 of the Law of 7 December 1998 on the organisation of an integrated police service, it is today impossible to combine a job as a security officer with a job as a voluntary firefighter. Although the system of occupational incompetences for operational police personnel was relaxed last year, the aforementioned ban remained in place. However, the aim of the relaxation was to give operational staff more room for manoeuvre in the pursuit of additional activities as long as they did not jeopardise police neutrality and deontology. Mr Minister, do you intend to amend the legal framework so that a member of the operational framework of the federal police can now carry out an activity as a firefighter, subject to notification to the Commissioner-General, the Mayor or the Police College?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u17	(...) and the status of staff of the operational framework of the police forces, of which the security officer is also part, is included in both Article 22 2° of the Royal Decree of 19 April 2014 laying down the administrative status of operational personnel of the relief zones and in the recently amended Article 134 1° of the Law of 7 December 1998 on the organisation of an integrated police service, structured at two levels. That incompatibility is justified by the following reasons. The availability of the staff member of the operational framework may be jeopardised by the fact that the staff member is also a fireman. In addition, a police officer who intervenes as a firefighter will also have to pay attention to his judicial orders and, during his actions in the field of fire fighting, always ask himself whether any elements useful for the investigation are being destroyed. Finally, the activities as a firefighter may also jeopardise the physical and mental fitness of the staff member of the operational framework for the exercise of his police duties. The physical risks associated with the performance of the firefighter's office cannot be denied.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u19	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Van Hecke's 29099 and 29045 have been converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament 29151 by Mr Degroote will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u20	Minister, following the tragedy of Thursday, 7 March, which took place in the Netherlands – a 45-year-old woman lost her life because of moving sands – the Association pour la Promotion de la Francophonie en Flandre (APFF) asks that the signs indicating the risk of the formation of moving sands at the Rooster, as a result of the re-censal work on the beach, be multilingual and not exclusively in Dutch. We even believe that, throughout Belgium, these safety signs should be drawn up in Dutch, French, German and English, with a view to effective prevention. In order to help future tourists from French-speaking Belgium and elsewhere, APFF has called on the local authorities to ensure that the safety instructions are displayed in the 4 languages mentioned above. Minister, what is your position on this? What do you intend to do to address this risk? When are you planning an implementation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u21	Mr Thiéry, in Article 11, § 3 of the Laws on the use of languages in administrative matters (LLC), coordinated by the Royal Decree of 18 July 1966, it is provided that the communal councils of tourist centres may decide that opinions and communications intended for tourists shall be drawn up in at least three languages. They shall communicate the content of their deliberations to the Standing Committee on Linguistic Control in the eighties. The municipality of De Haan is a tourist resort recognised by the SPF Economy and can therefore invoke the scope provided for in the above mentioned article. The LLCs do not provide for any other exceptions with respect to the use of foreign languages. If the municipalities which have not been recognised as a tourist centre nevertheless wish to use foreign languages in their communications and public notices, it is necessary to consult the Standing Committee on Linguistic Control in advance. My powers do not allow me to exercise administrative control over the commune of De Haan, this supervision falls under the prerogatives of Mrs Homans, the Flemish Minister of Home Affairs. I cannot therefore take any action on the use of languages in local services.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u22	Minister, I am pleased to learn that this competence is exercised by your counterpart, whom I know well. This, of course, gives me great pleasure. I do not think the battle has yet been won. You will have understood that the safety of tourists is at stake. I note above all your answer that it is best to address the municipal council directly so that action is taken. Even if you indicate that this is not in your prerogatives, I note that you do not object to such an approach being undertaken in the interest of tourists. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u23	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Emir Kir, Mr 29277, Mr 29278 and Mr 29279 were converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u24	Mr President, Minister, since January 2019, the DAB, the new Directorate within the Federal Police, in charge in particular of the protection of sensitive sites, has taken office at Brussels-National Airport. This new security actor must therefore deal with the safety inspectors already present at the airport site. Of course, the tasks have been shared, as your colleague Minister Bellot has confirmed to me. He assured me that the airport inspection was discharged from his armed mission and, in so doing, from perimeter protection. However, it appears that the said security inspectors would always be sent by patrol along the perimeter of the airport – which is an armed mission – and that they would continue to carry out controls on access to private aviation, which is another armed mission. It would appear that the presence or absence of BAD in certain missions is determined by a risk assessment carried out by the police alone, without consultation with the inspectors. This assessment is distinguished by a different assessment from that of the authorities previously in charge of armed missions, as shown by at least one recent example. Minister, can you tell us exactly what the roles and missions of the BAD are? How can we explain the fact that security inspectors, who are now disarmed, continue to conduct patrols or control access doors, when this type of mission would now be the responsibility of the DAB? How could the DAB best ensure the safety of these inspectors as well as the safety of other workers at Brussels Airport?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u25	Mr President, Mr Henry, the control of access to Brussels-National airport is the responsibility of the operator Brussels Airport Company (LAC). The Federal Police Security Directorate (DAB) only includes a series of LAC missions included in the collaborative protocols. These missions include various types of rapid response or a series of patrols defined by regulation and approved by the Air Transport Branch of the Mobility FPS (DGTA). Access control is not included and, moreover, is not an armed mission, except in some very specific cases related to the level of threat assessed by the OCAM and the Crisis Centre. If necessary, this level is then communicated to the federal police and is assessed operationally by the Operations section of the Aeronautical Police Directorate (APD) and then disseminated to the ADB for mission planning. It is not up to us to give an opinion on the situation of LAC personnel or on missions related to private aviation, but it should be noted that the DGTA-led General Aviation Working Group is currently analysing these issues. In particular, it will have to establish more clarity within existing legislation in order to restrict possible interpretations. Other procedures are under consideration to preserve the integrity of the restricted security zone and, by force of events, the safety of LAC inspectors.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u26	Minister, thank you for that answer. Security inspectors do not have the same training as DAB officers. Therefore, what the authorities might consider to be "not at risk" for their men could be at risk for workers with different training. We do not, of course, consider whether or not it is appropriate to disarm previous actors. However, one can only understand their concern, since the transition does not seem to take place with all the flexibility and ease required. The DAB has been present at Zaventem Airport for three months. Is an evaluation procedure involving all stakeholders planned to correct the coracs in relation to certain elements?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u27	Here, you're asking me another question. If we still have time, we may be able to return to it in plenary.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u28	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mrs Ben Hamou's 28967, 28969, 29002 and 29041 are converted into written questions. Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht Mr Kir converted 29135 into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u29	Mr President, Minister, my first question is indeed about the seizure of vehicles. Vehicles seized in the context of drug trafficking, money laundering or other forms of organised crime may be assigned to the police. Thanks to a legislative amendment last year, this procedure has been greatly relaxed and it is easier for police forces to use a seized vehicle, object or even building. This change in the law is evidently bearing fruit because figures from COIV show that more frequently seized vehicles are made available to the police. Since 2017, 14 cars have been assigned to the police, six of them this year. For comparison, no car was allocated between 2014 and 2016, even though it was legally authorised. Minister, more vehicles are being assigned to the police. In your opinion, is the relaxed regulation the main reason for this or are there other reasons? The COIV assigns the vehicles according to the needs. What about the interaction? How do police requests take place? In addition to vehicles, are there more other seized items assigned to the police than a few years ago? What happens to the buildings the police could use?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u30	Mrs Gabriels, the relaxation of the procedure has indeed made it possible for a decision to be taken more quickly. There is a protocol agreement that explains the procedure. The posting takes place in cooperation with the COIV, the Central Commission for the Confiscation and the Declaration, and the federal judicial police. Not only vehicles, but all seized items, if they fall within the prescribed legal conditions, may be made available. For example, the last posting was about IT equipment, namely hard drives.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u31	Mr President, Minister, this question is once again in line with my previous questions concerning criminal organisations. Their activities are becoming more and more extensive, including in the case of counterfeit medicines, as we recently read in the press. New research shows a significant increase in counterfeit medicines of poor quality. Last year Pfizer found that no less than 95 of his medicines were falsified in 113 countries. The approach to undersized medicines is a work of control and regulation. On 9 February 2019, the European Directive on falsified medicinal products came into force. From now on, most prescription and refundable medicinal products placed on the market must bear safety features. These security features are checked at each link in the distribution chain so that the authenticity of the medicinal product can be guaranteed upon delivery. In the FAGG, it is the inspection services, in particular the Special Investigation Unit, that handle files relating to counterfeit medicinal products. The fight against counterfeit medicines is also a task for the police, because it is a fight against criminal networks. According to a United Nations report, after the Netherlands, our country is the largest producer and exporting country for synthetic drugs, such as ecstasy and amphetamines. Practice teaches us that this phenomenon has not exactly been reduced in recent years. Hence my next questions. The trafficking of medicines is part of organised crime in our country. The drugs are mostly counterfeited in Asia, imported by criminals and sold on the black market. Is there generally an increase in pharmaceutical crime in our country? Do drug labs in our country also fake drugs? The illicit trade in medicines would become more and more intertwined with drug trafficking. It's more lucrative and the odds are smaller. Producers of synthetic drugs, such as ecstasy, could also use their expertise and drug labs to produce illicit drugs. I would have liked to have heard your views on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u32	Mr President, Mr Gabriels, the police and the judiciary were asking for better monitoring and effective action on the rise in pharmaceutical crime. This was the basis of the transformation of the Hormone Cell into the Pharma- and Foodcrime Platform, approved by the Council of Ministers on 25 January 2019. In general, there is indeed a slight increase in the number of findings on pharmaceutical crime. Although most seizures are for personal use, it shows that all types of medicines are susceptible to counterfeiting. Each year, at least one group responsible for the large-scale counterfeiting of medicines is dismantled. The illegal anabolic lab discovered last year was only intended to produce drugs, mainly anabolics, based on imported raw materials. The equipment found could of course also be used for the production of ecstasy pills. Some medicines, even fentanyl and tramadol, are mainly abused by drug users, which could encourage drug traffickers to use them. I can tell you that the legal circuit in Belgium has so far been protected from falsified medicines.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for the information. Your last sentence is positive for our country, although Pfizer's figures are impressive.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u34	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u35	Okay, so much better.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u36	Minister, during a previous questioning session in our committee, I asked you two questions on how to deal with organised crime. To my first question about the Antwerp Kali team and the results achieved so far, you replied that in the meantime, in addition to regular police checks, 23 multidisciplinary checks were carried out and 12 premises closed. These included food stores, non-profit organisations, catering shops, telephone shops, rental companies and a car dealership. On my second question, you replied that practice shows that organised crime is nestling in the legal economy. The police note that legal structures are being abused and that the criminal law approach is insufficient. An integrated, integrated and, above all, decisive financial approach to organised crime is more necessary than ever. Minister, what is the situation with regard to administrative enforcement? The findings are a matter of concern, but what concrete measures can be taken with a view to the integrated approach to organised crime? What regular police investigations is the Kali team conducting? What were the results of the 23 multidisciplinary controls? What infringements caused the closure of the premises? How long are they gonna be closed?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u37	Mrs Gabriels, in order to achieve an integrated and integrated approach, a number of barriers must be removed and more opportunities for information sharing and cooperation at national and international level be created. More emphasis should therefore be placed on information sharing and cooperation between different partners in the safety chain. Local authorities should be able to receive more information in order to take administrative measures as described in Articles 133 et seq. of the new Municipal Law and the GAS Act. After all, the administrative approach should be complementary to the criminal law approach in order to provide more power. It was my ambition to get the administrative enforcement bill as far as possible in the government of current cases. I also succeeded in doing so: the draft law was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 29 March and is now before the Council of State for its opinion. It is true that criminals are nestling in the legal economy, with more money being laundered. In order to tackle this, more cooperation between the police and tax services is needed in order to tackle organised crime and undermining crime effectively. In the Kali team, the drug teams of the local and federal detectives of Antwerp should also continue to carry out regular drug investigations. For federal detectives, this includes research into international traffic and large-scale drug production, while for local detectives, for example, it focuses more on local organized drug sales, dealing houses and cannabis plantations. The 23 multidisciplinary audits have resulted in, among other things, the closure of 12 premises based on tax fraud in accordance with Article 9a of the Drugs Act or the general administrative authority in the context of public law enforcement. In addition, the stock of the shops that were closed in court was seized. Reports were drawn up for breaches of the Commercial Practices Act, infringements of general social legislation, breaches of food safety, non-payment of social security contributions, undeclared work, construction infringements and non-payment of establishment taxes. Finally, the duration of the closure depends on the nature of the decision: whether it is a judicial closure or a judicial closure proposed by the judicial authorities, or whether it is an administrative closure decided by the administrative authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u38	Thank you, Minister, for the additional information. There will still be a lot of administrative enforcement measures to be taken in the next legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u39	Mr Minister, on 14 November 2018, the Chamber approved the draft law on various provisions relating to the National Register and the Population Register. This provision contains the measure for the fingerprints on our elD. It was due to enter into force on 1 April 2019. On 22 February, a research group of the KU Leuven conducted an investigation in which there were a whole series of comments: inadequate technical protection measures in the law, unproven necessity of additional fingerprint registration, risky and unnecessary central storage of fingerprints for the elD. Current passport technology would not provide sufficient guarantees to prevent unauthorised readers from reading the fingerprints. Finally, the researchers also argue that the proposed measure does not address other forms of identity fraud such as forgery of identity card, the adoption of another remote identity and identity fraud where the identity card is not used. Minister, will the entry into force be postponed? If so, until what date? Have you taken note of the KU Leuven report? Are you going to take additional security measures as a result of these remarks? Are you going to take action on other forms of identity fraud mentioned in the report?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u40	The completion of the eID associated with adding an RFID chip, the radio frequency identification, on which the fingerprints will be stored, will be done this year. The project was somewhat delayed because of the legal part that was not quite complete at the time of my arrival as Minister of Home Affairs and Security. The reason for this was that the law on the various provisions relating to the National Register and the population registers for the summer recess of 2018 had to be published. This was done by my predecessor on 25 November 2018. Hence the delay. This is currently followed by its technical and legal process, after which the introduction can finally begin. I've taken note of the KU Leuven report. The report states that the legislation does not state what security measures the government is taking to protect fingerprints. ICT security, which should also guarantee the safety of fingerprints, is not described in a law. It is a technical and sensitive matter which cannot be made public. The inclusion of the fingerprints itself is also questioned in the report. The essence of an identity card is to identify the card holder. Is the person showing the identity card the person he claims to be? That is the identification, as they called it in old Dutch. In the fight against identity fraud, it was decided to add biometric elements to the card. Identity card fraud can only be successfully avoided if a well-established biometric method is used to determine whether the user of the identity card is the right person. Recording prints on the map is one way this can be done. Facial recognition is another method, but it's only in its infancy. Moreover, both general practice and international standards indicate that fingerprints score much better than facial recognition. The registration of the fingerprints of the applicant for an identity card shall take place at the time the card is requested. One can only be sure that the person applying for a new identity card is the same person who will pick up the card if the fingerprints were registered with the application and activated at the time of collection and checked against the card data. The chip is currently personalized in a central, secure site. If there were any possibility of this happening on the municipal administration, there would be potential security incidents. For example, the stolen documents of lookalikes, people similar to the applicant of the card, could still be fingerprinted. By centralising the fingerprints at a central location, the place where the card is produced, look-alike fraud is largely avoided. The storage method is exactly the same as for the passports and also in accordance with the technical standards set by ICAO (International Civil Aviation Organisation), the International Civil Aviation Organisation, and the European Union. The method chosen also has the advantage of being tailored to the existing infrastructure for passports at home and abroad. The report does, however, have reservations about reading the fingerprints, in particular on the standardized protocols, PACE (Password Authenticated Connection Establishment) and the EAC (Extended Access Control Terminal Authentication). The Belgian reality is not taken into account here. In Belgium, a terminal must always be connected to the central system in order to be able to read the fingerprints. If this is not the case, the fingerprints cannot be read. The report concludes that the Belgian eID is an extremely safe identity document. With the new eID containing fingerprints, the fight against identity fraud will be further stepped up, which is only to be welcomed. Finally, to reply to your last question, I can tell you that my administration is always looking for new ways of dealing with identity fraud, both in the process of issuing identity cards and within the task force's identity fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u41	Thank you, Minister. As you know, our group has supported the measures. I understand from you that there will be no changes and that this will be introduced in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u42	Mr Minister, the sale of speed pedals or fast electric bicycles is in the elevator. According to figures from professional federation TRAXIO, in 2018, as many as 9 314 copies were sold. That is a doubling of the number the previous year. VAB figures show that nine out of ten users of a speed pedal use their bike for commuting at least a few times a week. This seems to me to be a good thing. Unfortunately, the number of accidents also increased. We have to keep an eye on the safety of the drivers. That is why I asked a number of questions here earlier about the control of the maximum permitted speed of these bicycles. I also have the following questions now. How many speed pedelecs accidents have occurred in recent years? How many with injuries or a fatal outcome for the driver? How are the police dealing today with speed pedelecs going through traffic at speeds above 25 kilometers per hour? Is the necessary measuring equipment available for carrying out indicative checks on the roller test bench for these devices? In other words, can the police today perform its supervisory role at the speed of these bikes? I'd like an explanation. Is the necessary measuring equipment already available on the market? When could the model approval by the FPS Economy, department of Metrology, take place? What is the state of play with regard to the transposition of the European regulation in this area into Belgian law? What are the results of the working group on this subject? What is the timing for this working group? Finally, have you had discussions on this issue with your fellow economic and mobility ministers?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u43	Mr Yüksel, as regards your first question on the number of accidents involving speed pedals, I would ask you to put this question in writing. This is a quantitative part of my answer. For bicycles with pedal support there is no usable measuring equipment available yet either in our country or abroad. The police services monitor developments and continue to look for a performant and legal means to monitor the speed of these devices. There are signs that investigations and developments are under way, but it is not possible at the moment to make a prediction as to when such a device will be available. Regulation 168/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 January 2013 on the approval and market surveillance of two- or three-wheeled vehicles and quadricycles was transposed into Belgian law by the Royal Decree of 21 July 2016 amending the Royal Decree of 1 December 1975 laying down the general rules on police and road traffic and the use of public roads and the Royal Decree of 23 March 1998 on driving licences. In addition to the introduction of new provisions for the motorised bicycle and speed pedals, the traffic rules to be observed by drivers of these vehicles have also been clarified so that the police can monitor compliance with the rules relating to the public road location, the trap helmet obligation, the driving licence and the registration requirement for speed pedals. In addition, however, at present it can only monitor the conformity of those bicycles and not the speed. There is currently no discussion on this issue with the fellow ministers, because technological developments in measuring equipment for the police are lagging behind, but we are keeping a close eye on this development and will ensure that, in the context of road safety, regulatory changes are made when the possibility exists.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We are for cycling and the use of the bike, including the electric bike, but we must of course also pay attention to road safety and accidents with bicycles. It is regrettable that there is still no measuring equipment available for the police to make determinations on speed and, where appropriate, to act.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u45	Mr President, Minister, in recent months the number of complaints about violent incidents, thefts and drug trafficking in and around the Lemonnier pre-metro station near the Brussels-South train station has increased considerably. Sad low point was a stabbing on Friday 8 March, after which a driver of the Brussels transport company STIB was also threatened with a knife. To raise the violence, STIB drivers spontaneously dropped the work on Tuesday, March 12. The STIB-direction then decided to temporarily delete the free Wi-Fi connection and the power outlets in the station. The facilities appear to be a magnet for dealers, pickpockets and others. The drivers also no longer switch shifts in Lemonnier, but a little further up in the Zuidstation. That too seems to have become too dangerous. Following an emergency meeting with STIB and the police, Mayor Philippe Close of Brussels announced that the police presence in the station itself would be doubled and that the security services in the district would act more strictly. Our group believes that camera surveillance can bring relief here in order to increase both objective and subjective safety. The idea that cameras are present is a source of reassurance and can also have a positive effect on the atmosphere in the neighbourhood. In addition to its preventive action, they can work in support of the action of local police and justice. They can provide increased and more efficient police controls and help clarify facts. This can also be done with small, temporary and mobile cameras, which can be used to better monitor suddenly emerging nuisance zones. Temporarily moveable cameras are also unobservable. That's how they're effective. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. How could the situation in the district at the South Station be so derailed? It seems to be becoming a new Brussels no-go zone. Do you share our view that the use of mobile cameras can provide relief here?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u46	Mr President, Mrs Gabriels, Mr Pivin has already raised this issue with a somewhat different question, but the same tone. My services inform me that in recent weeks street crime has indeed increased in and around the Lemonnier pre-metro station, near the Brussels-South train station. The incidents are largely caused by recidivists. I strongly condemn that. The pre-metro station and the station form a joint competence of the local police and the federal railway police. It is up to the Mayor of Brussels, together with the operational services, local and federal, to adopt the necessary measures to address the situation on the ground and to ensure that these forms of crime are avoided in the future. Joint actions have already been taken by the local police and the federal railway police. These actions have had the desired effects. There is less insecurity and numerous arrests, both administrative and judicial, have been carried out. Camera surveillance is already provided in the Lemmonier district. The use of mobile cameras can, of course, also offer solace, but this must be done in consultation with all the services involved. Also remember that the analysis of the images and the identification of potential offenders requires a great deal of capacity and a special effort by the legal services.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u47	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is true that camera surveillance requires additional capacity from police forces, which is sometimes forgotten. However, we believe it is a good solution. You said there's camera surveillance already.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u48	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u49	Thanks for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u50	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Gabriels' 29232 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u51	Minister, I read your answer to my excellent colleague Eric Thiébaut on Emergency Preparedness. However, I would like some clarification about the Ghlin Emergency Preparedness vehicles and their operating budget. Indeed, some vehicles of the Ghlin Civil Protection are, because of a lack of space, placed either at the Brasschaat barracks or at the Liedekerke barracks while the latter is closed. However, given the acute shortage of personnel in the barracks of the Flemish Civil Protection (92 sapeurs instead of 156), these vehicles may not be properly maintained and no longer be used. According to my information, the Ghlin barracks are being taken over by the federal police. The police agreed to leave a hangar at the disposal of the Civil Protection to store essential equipment for road clean-up, search and clearance and other interventions that had been carried out in the past. This equipment would therefore be stored in a strategic and central location and could be used by professionals reinforced by volunteers, instead of being stored and unused in a closed barracks. If you do not follow this proposal, do you allow the emergency areas that were served by the closed barracks to acquire this equipment free of charge? On the other hand, water reinforcement is no longer a civil protection competence and must be taken over by the relief zones. Since 1 January, several tank reinforcements have been brought by Civil Protection to the Crisnea region. If this reinforcement has taken place, it is that it proves all its necessity and that proximity has allowed. Do you intend to grant additional funding to areas far from Crisnea, such as the rescue zone of Picardy Wallonia that I preside over, in order to compensate for the lack of possible reinforcements? Finally, according to my information, the operating budget of Civil Protection has been planed by €600,000. To compensate for the closure of the Liedekerke barracks, the SIAMU in Brussels would have received a sum of €400,000. Do you intend to allocate the same amount to areas served by the Ghlin barracks?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u52	Dear colleague Delannois, at present, some vehicles from the Libramont and Ghlin units are stored at the former Liedekerke unit in a secure location. This situation is temporary pending the finalization of a storage site near the Crisnea Unit and, in the medium term, the completion of work on this site of Crisnea. In the meantime, the interviews will be conducted properly. With regard to the resumption of the Ghlin unit, the federal police have indeed expressed their interest in this resumption, but we are awaiting a formal decision from this service, in consultation with the Régie des Bâtiments, in order to lay down all the practical arrangements. The Civil Protection Reform provides for two operational units in Crisnée and Brasschaat. There is no question of providing an additional location. With regard to the missions you mention, you should be aware that research and clearance missions are still civil protection missions, which implies the retention of the equipment necessary to carry out this mission. The road clean-up mission is indeed a mission that comes first and foremost to the relief areas, but in particular circumstances such as complexity and long duration, it can call on the support of Civil Protection. In order to do so, Emergency Preparedness must retain the necessary equipment to carry out this mission. As you rightly mention, tank reinforcement is no longer part of the mission of Civil Protection. A mission of this type was actually carried out at the beginning of the year in Crisnaeus, and this is more out of the habit of carrying out this type of mission. Since then, no such missions have been carried out. The provision of additional funding for relief areas is not currently on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u53	Mr. Minister, you will suspect that I am not entirely satisfied with your answer. I think using hangars that were available and much closer to certain regions would have been a proof of common sense. I understand that we will not have any additional funding. Thank you for your answer, but not necessarily for its substance.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u54	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Van Vaerenbergh's 29212 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u55	Minister, we were all deeply affected by the bloody attack in New Zealand three weeks ago. Again, our thoughts go out to the innocent victims and their next of kin. I'm judging the attack on a mosque and the mosque. We must condemn all forms of terror, whatever its origin. Terror is terror. Who she's from and why she's being committed doesn't matter. Because of the attacks in New Zealand, the Muslims in our country are very concerned about their safety. That concern is justified. She is also the reason for my question. It is the responsibility of the government to guarantee the safety of all citizens in our country. The Crisis Centre made a risk analysis immediately after the attacks. The threat level was not increased. However, the OCAD referred to a study that would show that extreme right would regroup in our country, which is, of course, a worrying finding. Mr President, first of all, what was the point of this investigation? I'd like to get an explanation. Secondly, what consequences does this have for the safety of mosque-goers in our country? Thirdly, after the attacks, were there any contacts between the Muslim executive and the government? Fourthly, many hate messages and calls for violence also appear on social media. How do the police handle that? Finally, what measures have you taken as chief police officer in the field of the security of places of prayer? What measures are you planning to take?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u56	Mr Yüksel, first of all, I would like to reiterate what I said recently in plenary: I strongly condemn any form of violent extremism. I would also like to express my condolences once again to all the victims of the attack in New Zealand. Following the attacks in Christchurch, the OCAD immediately undertook a threat analysis for our country. According to that analysis, there is no indication that the safety of the mosque-goers would be in danger. The safety body also evaluates the probability of copycat and copycat actions as very low, although we can never completely rule them out. In the police services, the DJSOC IRU cell was appointed as a point of contact for the purpose of conducting searches on the internet, detecting illegal content and requesting the removal of hate messages and calls for violence on the Internet. The cell also supports the integrated police units and the magistrate, and this in the context of their judicial investigations. Some investigations are linked to hatred and/or calls for violence. In 2017, the service received 900 applications, 33 of which were linked to hate speech; 2018 included 914 applications, 23 of which were linked to hate speech. I now come to your question about the measures to protect the places of prayer in our country. On the day following the attacks in New Zealand, a message was sent to all police forces on the basis of the evaluation of the OCAD asking them to pay particular attention to the measures for the security of prayer homes. These are listed under the soft targets. The threat level 2 applies to this. For understandable reasons, I cannot go into more detail about its specificity, but local authorities can also take additional measures to secure soft targets on their territory. As far as your question on contacts with the Muslim Executive is concerned, I must refer you to my colleague Mr Geens, Minister of Justice, who is responsible for this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1073x.u57	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I believe that this is the right response to people's right concerns. I am pleased that your services and the OCAD are monitoring the situation closely and have taken the appropriate measures. I am also pleased that the police have given instructions to all local units on this matter. As far as the reports of hatred on the social media and the calls for violence are concerned, I do not think we should underestimate them. I am counting on the competent police department, the IRU service, to pay due attention to this with the providers and to follow up on it. This problem must not get out of hand. I am glad that you, together with the government, are monitoring the situation very closely.
