ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u2	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, access to justice for all is a fundamental right in many respects hindered. And, despite the reforms, funding for legal aid remains largely inadequate today. In this regard, the debate on the definition of the point of legal aid is truncated. Whatever the nomenclature adopted, the budget envelope is closed and insufficient. The work on the redefinition of the nomenclature does not say anything else and leads us to this conclusion: regardless of the number of points connected with a procedure, its value still does not guarantee the fundamental and constitutional right of access to justice. The reality is that today we come to a paradoxical situation: the more complex a procedure is, the less the lawyer is paid. The investment of the lawyer is, however, what will make the difference between a right simply defended and a guaranteed right. I would also like to take this opportunity to highlight the professional conscience of the vast majority of legal aid lawyers who consider their mission to be of public benefit and believe that their clients' primary right is to defend their rights. Mr Minister, there is another paradox, particularly in criminal matters. In the face of an increasingly powerful prosecutor's office, the role of the lawyer should have been strengthened. Nevertheless, the reforms of the previous legislature have sought to make savings to the detriment of the people in question. When we know that 75% of criminal cases are dealt with through legal aid, we immediately measure the gap that has widened in recent years between citizens, whether accused or accused, and the State. Minister, for more people, every day, the middle class now understood, justice becomes difficult to access and no longer fulfils its role as a universal public service that it should be. More than ever, we face two-speed justice. Minister, what is your assessment of the past legislature? Do you believe that legal aid lawyers are now in a position to ensure equal access to justice for all litigants? What is the meaning of the discussions about the definition of the point when the envelope, of the agreement of all, remains insufficient? Finally, do you recognize that the difficulties of access to justice in fact lead to the existence of at least two-speed justice?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u3	Mr President, Mr Aouasti, you are asking me about my assessment of the previous legislature with regard to justice. I don't have time to answer, but it's a positive assessment. We did a good job. I wrote four reports that you can read on the website. With regard to the value of the item and legal aid, first of all, we have developed this new nomenclature in conjunction with the Bar Associations. I'm not saying there was a full agreement, but there was a broad consensus in 2016. I think the reason you asked me this question is because, this morning, in the newspaper Le Soir, there was an article about the panic in the Bar Association. The Bar Association responded by saying that it was fake news: "We are not going to rewrite the nomenclature. We will simply evaluate it together with the minister. So don't worry." An untouchable nomenclature does not change anything, either good or bad, especially not good. As for the value of the point, I have always told the Orders that I guarantee them a value of 75 euros. Despite the fact that it's a closed envelope in your opinion, I did it. The point is 75 euros. For the rest, you preach a convinced one. I have pleaded on several occasions for the increase of the budget in the electoral programme and I am doing it again, now, in another framework that you are not supposed to ignore. Legal aid must be more publicly funded. On the other hand, I said the same thing to the Justice Committee when Ecolo-Groen tabled his bill on this subject. You can't say I've been unfair to legal aid, on the contrary!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u4	Minister, thank you for your answer. I have a commitment from her, that of a refinancing of legal aid. I also consider irony to be a serious question. Finally, I note that this assessment shows – as you yourself say – that no nomenclature is untouchable. What we regret, unfortunately, is that the envelope remained untouchable, which led us to guarantee a point of 75 euros but with a value that had been determined many years ago. It will be up to the next government to give justice its brilliance and its role: that of a public power in the service of the protection and security of all citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u5	Minister, the Royal Gift is, in theory, a self-absorbed public institution under your supervision. In practice, it is a shadowy vehicle, without any parliamentary supervision, that does not exist in any other country and that serves to transfer as much luxury as possible from the royal family to the taxpayer. While the housing bonus of the Flemish taxpayer is taken away, it must be paid for, for example, the renovation of a dressing with ceremonial clothing for the king worth 280,000 euros. This is the way to build an entire house, Minister. It's hallucinating. Unlike all members of the royal family, the taxpayer does pay rent to the Royal Gift and on top of that all other costs. Recently I asked you again about the value of the patrimony of the Royal Gift. At that time, in your reply, you ended up with a reference to the answer to a question I asked 11 years ago, on 16 January 2008. You still don't have a clue. The taxpayer must clearly know as little as possible, but he must be financially responsible for the films of the Habsburg predators. When Laeken's profit society became known, several colleagues suddenly called for an investigation. The Flemish Interest naturally supports this research. Mr President, I have already submitted a proposal to this effect to the services at the beginning of October. Moreover, it is the fourth parliamentary term in a row that I have done so. Have you woken up too, Minister? Do you think this crime of mass murderer Leopold II still fits into the 21st century? Would it not be better, pending the disappearance of the monarchy, to take an example from the British Crown Estate, which produces money independently and transparently and does not cost money?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u6	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there are two things in the file on the Royal Gift that are incredibly disturbing me. First, there are some obvious questions about the Royal Gift. What's in it, what's in it, what's in it, what's in it, what's in it, what's in it, what's in it, what's in it, what's in it, what's in it, what's in it, what's in it, what's in it, Who's using it? What are the costs involved? Who's gonna take the fall for that? You're gonna put taxpayers' money in it? If so, under what conditions? It is not normal that it takes months of investigative journalism to get an answer to these questions. Secondly, the Royal Gift sometimes dares to set off costs in the direction of the taxpayer when there are no good reasons for doing so. When questions come to mind, Baron Paul Buysse doesn't answer them with a great deal of enthusiasm. I can't say that's normal. Around the whole file of the Royal Gift hangs the atmosphere of the ancien régime. We need to get rid of that as soon as possible. What we need is total transparency about all the constructions and the money flows that go around in them. What we also need is the awareness that parks and domains that are used exclusively by others, but for which public funds are used, must also become public. We do not accept, ladies and gentlemen, that taxpayers should bear the cost of using parks and areas that they do not enjoy. We therefore reiterate the proposal to at least open up the Laeken domain to the public. Minister, in principle all federal government expenditure must be clearly identified in the budget. This applies, for example, to the Civil List, but also to the Royal Gift. Is it true that the Royal Gift transfers a lot of costs to the taxpayer without a good reason, and that it is almost impossible to find out exactly how much it costs?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u7	I give the floor to Mr Dedecker, who was already in the starting blocks. Ladies and gentlemen, as of next week you will be faced with the question of speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u8	Mr President, I will comment on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u9	I don't doubt that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u10	Mr President, Minister, at the end of the last century our King Leopold II of Saxony-Coburg made a fortune of slave labor on his rubber plantations in Congo. That blood money he invested in real estate in our country. When he felt his end approaching he wanted to favor quite a few mistresses, he also wanted to disinherit his two daughters and also did not want to pay inheritance taxes. I am surprised, by the way, that the colleagues from PTB-PVDA are not asking a question about this today. Because Leopold II did not want to pay inheritance rights, in the year 1900 he placed his real estate in the Royal Gift, to give it to the people. In 1903, the then silly Senate and Chamber accepted that donation. The conditions were that his heirs were allowed to remain in possession of the patrimony and that the patrimony should not be alienated. So to speak, so to speak. Who carries the burden? The population. Who gets the pleasures? The Saxons-Coburgs. In 1930, the government felt that this couldn't be done anymore, and she had a law passed. Article 1 of that law states that the Royal Gift no longer receives money from the taxpayer, but that the institution must be self-sufficient. We are now ninety years later and all this time the Saxon-Coburgs have been grazing. It has got even worse, because when I was a Member of Parliament in 2000-2001, as the President of the Chamber will remember, it was even suggested that the children of Astrid and Laurent should not only live for free, but also receive a donation, hundreds of thousands of euros of pocket money. Mr President, before you take the floor, I have just one question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u11	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u12	Mr Verherstraeten, I will not talk about abuse. For example, I will not talk about Duchess Duchess Castle, which is rented for EUR 100,000 and for which we still have to pay EUR 637,000 for outside work. I'm sure your party's in for something. Minister, I only have one question. When does that abuse end?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u13	Mr President, even though the clock is not running yet, I will certainly try to keep to the speaking time. Minister, the problem has already been outlined by the three previous speakers. Leopold II was so generous in giving his property at the age of 65 to the Belgian State. The Belgian State could then continue to work on it. As a principle, that was very noble, even though there were a number of catchies. The Belgian State then founded the Royal Gift. That was and is still an independent public institution. The principle is that it must be self-sufficient. Article 1 of the Royal Decree of 9 April 1930 states: "This institution must combat all its expenditure by means of the resources at its disposal," now comes the "without charge to the Public Treasury." The investigative journalists have been working on this over the past few months and have exposed a number of painful things. First of all, there is the lack of transparency. There is indeed insufficient transparency. There's gonna be a lot of questions coming up anyway. What exactly is the patrimony? What exactly are the maintenance costs? What exactly are the sources of income? There's got to be some clarity. Even worse, I think that there may be a possibility that I speak in the conditional and I hope that your answer will provide clarity about maintenance costs and management costs to other governments. I am talking not only about the federal government and the Government of the Buildings, but also about Regions and local authorities. That creates a strange and annoying feeling, a feeling of us-know-us, a feeling we don't stand for. So we need to be clear about this. Parliament deserves that clarity. We look forward to your answer. I understand from Baron Buysse's reply that the board of directors met today. What was the position of our federal representatives there? Have any decisions been made there? I want to know how we deal with the problem of lack of transparency and the transfer of costs to other public authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u14	Thank you for your questions. I think that history has already been well described in the question. It is indeed a donation, which is subject to a number of binding obligations in relation to a number of goods at the disposal of the royal family. For those goods, the Royal Gift has the maintenance burden. This also applies to a number of other goods, such as the Dudenpark, which was housed in the Royal Gift in 1930. The Royal Gift has legal personality and has full financial autonomy. Some of the goods it manages are absolutely part of the rich heritage of our country. Formally, the Royal Gift is under the supervision of Finance. For this purpose, the Finance Department calls on the Court of Auditors, which assists Parliament in the financial supervision of public institutions. The Court of Auditors has systematically provided a clean sheet for every inspection of the Royal Gift: no comment at all. I do not need to remind Parliament how many public institutions can only dream of getting a clean sheet year after year. Indeed, for many public institutions this is more often the opposite. You ask questions, but I may also have a question for Parliament. If the press had not conducted an investigation here, would we be having this debate here today? The Court of Auditors is at your disposal for one hundred percent. You can ask the questions you want at the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors has an obligation to clarify that. As a Member of Parliament, you can absolutely use the Court of Auditors to get the clarity you want. It is true, as the press articles say, that there are regular expenditures involving the use of public money. This is based on bilateral agreements, sometimes with other governments, sometimes even with cities and municipalities, sometimes with private partners. The Court of Auditors did not comment on the validity and legality of the bilateral agreements either. If there is a bilateral agreement, I would also like to remind you that the responsibility for such an agreement lies with both parties. It lies not only with the Royal Gift, but also with the opposing party, often other governments or cities and municipalities. As far as the question of transparency is concerned, I understand from the statements made by the Chairman of the Management Board that the Royal Gift is absolutely willing to do so and that all the necessary documents are already being made available today. However, I believe that an open communication, which belongs to an institution such as the Royal Gift, is absolutely necessary and that great steps can be taken forward. Let me get this straight. Firstly, the accounts are transparent. Secondly, every year there is an audit by the Court of Auditors and the Court of Auditors has no comments. Thirdly, I absolutely agree that today, through the Royal Gift, an institution with prestige, it is absolutely possible to take steps forward in order to communicate about it in a more open way.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u15	Minister, I have some elements of reply. With regard to the answer you have received from Mr Dewael that Parliament must do its job and question the Court of Auditors, I can say that I have been asking a great many questions here for 11 years. If the Court of Auditors gives a clean sheet, it doesn't surprise me, since the Court of Auditors doesn't get that data from the Royal Gift. It is not transparent, that is the essence of the matter and why I have already proposed four legislative hours in a row to ensure transparency. I support the demand for additional research, which I hear today from Mr Buysrogge. However, I must say that it is very hard for the Michael administration, with your N-VA, Mr Buysrogge, to have done nothing about this and to have been actively involved in it, strong John in the lead. At the request of the King, he changed the law to transfer the entire security installation of the King's country house in Ciergnon to the taxpayer, via the Buildings Regie, for 700,000 euros. For us, it must be over with this profiteer. Whatever the king may say in his Christmas ceremonies in a few weeks' time, as far as we are concerned, it is gone with the profitariate, away with the donations, away with the Royal Gift and certainly away with the monarchy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u16	Minister, you say that Parliament must do its job and there is a great willingness here. I am delighted to propose to colleagues that we invite the Court of Auditors, which is at our disposal, and also the Board of Directors of the Royal Gift to the Finance Committee. Indeed, there are people on that board who have a direct link with the Minister of Finance, both current and previous. Let us look at what decisions have been taken and what structures exist. We can then decide for ourselves whether or not something needs to be changed. If it does not appear to be correct or illegal, let us take a step further.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u17	Minister, how can you get the word "transparency" across your lips? If a group of four journalists from four different institutions needs a year and a half to get an insight into the accounts and find out what's known today, don't you fall off your chair? You talk about transparency and you argue that balance sheets were submitted. Have you seen it? The institution has a simple accounting system, four pages thick, for a billion-dollar heritage. There is no double accounting with a list of what the Royal Gift holds. It's still to be drawn up. I am effectively somewhat embarrassed, because journalists had to do so. In Parliament, the Omerta has been in charge of the royal family for years. By the way, ask the Court of Auditors, I'm sure the same applies there. I find that embarrassing. I have just one comment. Article 1 of the 1930 Law says that the Royal Gift must be self-sufficient and it is your job to take care of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u18	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I think that your answer should above all be an incentive for Parliament to take matters into its own hands. We must continue to do so and be clear, first and foremost, from the person responsible for the Royal Gift itself, in the short term. I hope that we in Parliament can decide jointly to follow up on this. Colleagues, I respond to what Mr Vandenbroucke said in his introduction. I think the developments over the past 24 hours could also be a plus. There was already support for the opening up of the Laeken park. That support has grown over the past two days, I hope, in politics. A few weeks ago, we tabled a legislative proposal on this matter in the Committee on the Interior. I therefore hope that we will be able to discuss and approve this very soon, so that the Laeken Park Gardens can finally open up once and for all to the public.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u19	Minister, this Monday released a Human Rights Watch report examining the responsibility of BIO, the Belgian development bank, for abusive practices in oil palm plantations at Plantations et Oileries du Congo (PHC) Feronia in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. What abusive practices are we talking about? Workers would be exposed to toxic pesticides without adequate protection. The workers also show worrying health problems. On the other hand, wages are found to be below the extreme poverty line, particularly for day-to-day workers. And, it should be pointed out, this situation is even worse for women. The report also refers to environmental damage, including the release of untreated industrial waste into rivers and close to homes, with inevitable health impacts. There are still several dimensions in this report, including very important issues of lack of transparency on Feronia's part and issues of concern to the workers in dispute. This is a very quick observation of this report. This is not the first time Feronia has been targeted. Other investigations have already taken place, which have led to similar conclusions. This report confirms what is already known to all of us, including you, Minister. In conclusion, it can only be seen that BIO, the Belgian development bank, does not guarantee compliance with international standards or national legislation on employment and the environment and therefore fails to promote sustainable development. How is it that BIO is unable to guarantee safety and decent living conditions for workers in the companies it finances? Feronia's shortcomings are not dated from yesterday. How do you explain that this bank has not yet found a lever to achieve successful results? Finally, is it relevant to mobilise public money to support Western companies, listed on the stock exchange, even though their practices do not meet international standards in terms of workers' rights? Should BIO's role not be to finance local businesses and entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u20	Mr Minister, we have indeed taken note this week of the report by Human Rights Watch with a number of staggering observations. It involved a number of palm oil companies in the north of Congo, where abuses came to light. Among other things, it was about exposing workers to toxic pesticides, which caused many diseases. It was about the discharge of wastewater into the watercourses, where children and families have to wash themselves. It was also about paying a very heavy wage below the extreme poverty line of 1.9 dollars a day. They looked at the controlling investment companies before that. We note that BIO, the Belgian Investment Company for Developing Countries, is one of those investment companies that has invested EUR 11 million. This is in itself a very good body which has a noble purpose, but it is regrettable to note that an investment was made in companies that allow such things. Minister, was BIO aware of these abuses at the time of the decision to invest? Was some kind of preliminary investigation done? What will BIO do to address these abuses? Are you considering conducting an investigation yourself?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u21	Mr President, let me first make it clear that BIO has worked closely with Human Rights Watch from the outset and has given full transparency to produce the report on the co-investment we are making with organisations from the Netherlands, Germany and the United Kingdom comparable to BIO. We immediately indicated that we are taking the report very seriously and we immediately made it clear to Feronia that we are keeping the company to solve the pain points. As was said, there are serious problems of safety, environment and working conditions. For example, used clothing that does not protect enough, water purification problems, etc. BIO is concerned with providing €10 million in credit with the Dutch and German banks. The British bank is a shareholder. As such, it has much more influence than we do in the role we have. We use our British colleagues to put pressure on management. We have called for a review of the Environmental and Social Action Plan. Let us be clear: the situation on the ground needs to improve. It's not the first time we've said that. We've already put a lot of pressure, and that pressure works. Compared to the beginning, wages are three times higher today and investments are being made in homes, medical facilities and drinking water. Those are all things that didn't happen before we stepped in. But I want to be clear: that is not enough. We have to do better. But we must not forget where we come from. We intervened in a company that was completely abandoned, where thousands of jobs were threatened, where people worked barefoot, where wages were much lower, in a region where 100,000 people depend solely on this body for economic and social services. Clearly, I want to emphasize that this investment was justified, that we had done an analysis and that we knew there were problems. However, I want to be very clear about this. The mission of an institution like BIO is to invest in those difficult places and to invest in economic development, which is actually the only way to get people out of poverty in a sustainable way. Let it be clear: if it weren't difficult, then BIO wouldn't be needed there either. BIO goes to places where it's hard. We are absolutely aware of the fact that, despite progress, major steps still have to be taken, but if we decide today to withdraw, we will plunge thousands of people into a situation for which we absolutely do not want to be responsible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u22	Minister, thank you very much for your answer. It was also found that BIO has results to present. We read their little press release. It is regrettable that the joint communiqué of BIO and the other banks is so light. It may be petty to say, but five pages is little in the light of very substantial reports containing many recommendations. We expect from you, Minister, and from BIO detailed responses to each of the recommendations made by Human Rights Watch. If you say that BIO's choice is to support companies in extremely difficult contexts, it will not be enough to say that the role of these companies is to make the lives of workers and their families even more difficult than they are at present. However, living conditions continue to deteriorate. From the moment when the political choice is made to finance the private sector - which can be discussed but sometimes supported in some contexts - there is a need to empower ourselves to enforce international standards and national legislation on employment and the environment, especially in the case of Western enterprises. I think there's still a lot of work to do on your part and on the part of BIO. We will encourage you to do so and continue to follow up on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u23	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. Indeed, BIO has the objective of investing where it is difficult because these investments can benefit local residents, workers and the region. That is a very good objective. However, it is also important for us to work to ensure that these abuses are corrected and to keep the story in mind in future investments in order to respond from the outset and to address and try to correct things that are not acceptable from the outset.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u24	I invite Secretary Reynders to sit next to me. I'll tell you something else in a minute, but first he has to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u25	Mr Minister, may I begin by congratulating you on your new job as Commissioner? I will say immediately that we will need you very much there. By "we" I mean specifically the Holebi community in Poland today, and by enlargement throughout Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u26	Colleagues, this sticker was distributed free of charge by a large newspaper in Poland. It says, "holebi-free zone." In Poland, cafes and restaurants that stick stickers on their windows or doors can be found. Libraries have also stuck the stickers on windows or doors. Apparently, there are even local authorities calling out holebifree zones. Of course, that is not acceptable. That's not intolerance anymore, that's real, pure gay hatred. Where'd that punk grow? I can't help it either, with PIS, the government party. It is about a government party in the European Union. That's what shockes us. The European Union is not only an economic community, it must also be a community of values and standards, of the highest values, namely human rights. How can such an atmosphere be created there by a government party? Minister, you are still a Belgian minister. We know that you have always been very committed to human rights. To what extent have you already given a clear signal? For example, did you call the ambassador to you to point out that this is really not possible? Perhaps we should give some extra gas or use Article 7, which also provides for sanctions, so that we can cut it off, if necessary, and if we want to increase it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u27	Mr President, Mrs Liekens, everyone in this assembly knows that the fight against all forms of discrimination is a priority for Belgium. Both in committee and in plenary, I have already answered many questions about homophobia and Igbti. We have already taken action against discrimination in many countries in the world. It is true that discrimination in the European Union is worse. We must do more within the European Union. That is also the case. Both our embassy in Warsaw and the Council of Europe have already responded to this. I was in Strasbourg yesterday for a Council of Europe meeting. We also contacted our Polish colleagues in Brussels. You refer to the procedure provided for in Article 7. We're working on that. I have already attended three hearings in the General Affairs Council on Poland. It was more about the judicial order then, but there will still be meetings on other dossiers. We'll move on. I will not list a number of concrete actions that we have carried out on the ground in favour of the Igbti in Poland and also in the Council of Europe. In my last hours as Minister for Foreign Affairs of Belgium, I may take another action, but I will certainly take action at European level in the following weeks, months and years. There must be a genuine assessment of the rule of law and a real fight against all forms of discrimination in all European Member States. For almost four years, I have been fighting for a real control of the rule of law in all European countries, as it exists for budgets. It is unusual for us to carry out strict controls on all budgets, but not on the values. We will continue with a new rule of law mechanism. I'll do that. That is one of my powers at European level. I repeat that our embassy and the Council of Europe are already working on this, but a number of actions have also been taken in Brussels against these unacceptable situations in Poland.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u28	Minister, we are very pleased that you want to fight this battle with us. We knew you were very committed to human rights. Of course, it's typical in that region. It's not just about Poland. We are getting more signals that there is a serious problem with tolerance for the Holebi community. Hungary has also announced not to go to the Song Festival because it would be too gay. There's a lot of work to be done here. We are counting on you to do so. Minister, I would like to conclude by thanking you for your twenty years of ministry.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u29	I also wanted to say something about this, but, as often, Mrs Liekens is too quick for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u30	Mr President, I am glad that Mr Liekens has also mentioned this. Mr President, my question is in the same spirit, but it is a little broader. Over the last few days, the conference on the future of Europe has become increasingly clear. In the meantime, France and Germany have put on the table a plan with their ideas. I assume that Belgium, one of the six founding Member States, will also put its vision on the table there. Minister, will the Belgian position which will be defended there be presented to Parliament first? Secondly, the principle of the rule of law is one of the fundamental principles on which the European Union is founded. Do you agree that this should remain one of the fundamental principles? I can see you nodding. Do you also agree that it is very important for the credibility of the European Union not to be measured by double standards and two weights when assessing that principle? I have just heard you say that it applies to all the Member States, but we have seen no such action. We see, on the one hand, the European attitude towards Poland and Hungary. It is also right that action should be taken against the situation mentioned by Mrs Liekens. On the other hand, however, we do not see any action against Spain for the violent action in Catalonia. So far, my specific questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u31	Mr President, first of all, it is a little too early to say anything about the process at European level. There is a proposal from Mrs von der Leyen, the new President of the European Commission, to start an open debate on the future of Europe from 2020. This would take two years, in cooperation with the various European institutions and Member States, but also with citizens and other elements of society. Firstly, in the coming weeks work will begin in the Commission and a proposal document will be drawn up. This will be done on the basis of a number of priorities. You know them, it's a green deal, the digitisation of the economy and the rule of law. I'll be more in charge of the rule of law. So you have to wait a while before there will be a clear position at European level on that process. In any case, it will be done in consultation with the various institutions, namely the European Parliament, the Council and the European Commission. Secondly, as far as Belgium is concerned, I think that preparation should be prepared, not only at federal level, but also in cooperation with the regions and the Communities. This is also logical, many powers in relation to the European Union are in the hands of the Regions and the Communities. There must therefore be cooperation with the various authorities. Mr President, there must also be a debate in Parliament. If there is still a government in current cases, that will be necessary. After that, it is up to the new government to decide. In both circumstances, however, it will be necessary to come to Parliament with the proposals for the Belgian position. Thirdly, as far as the rule of law is concerned, I have just told you, so far we have worked with specific instruments against one country or another. I have been advocating a more general mechanism for all Member States for almost four years. In July 2019, the Commission issued a communiqué stating that a new mechanism should be set up, without discrimination, to verify the rule of law in all European countries. I'll do that for the next few weeks and months. There must be an annual report, not against one country, but without any discrimination against all countries. The same process must be used here as in the budget. As far as the budget is concerned, we have recommendations for all the Member States. For example, there was a major problem with Greece a few years ago, and we will continue with Greece. The same must be done in the area of the rule of law. There must be a general report for all Member States, but with concerns about the heavier situation in, for example, Hungary or Poland, and perhaps one day in Belgium. We must be very attentive to the situation in all the European Member States and not just in one particular country.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I know that the human rights mechanism is indeed one of your concerns. In any case, you will have an important responsibility in the future Commission. As Commissioner for Justice, you will have to take responsibility for monitoring compliance with that principle. The credibility of the European Union as a defender of that principle is certainly at stake here. In any case, our group will keep its finger firmly on the wrist to ensure that you do not measure it with two sizes and two weights. We wish you every success in your European adventure. I have a little souvenir for you: the ribbon from Catalonia that I'm sure you'll recognize. That is for you to remember the words you have just said, that this will apply to all the Member States.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u33	Minister, not a day goes by unless we receive testimony and videos of the violence taking place on the margins of the demonstrations in Chile. Personally, I am in daily contact with people who are experiencing these abuses and police violence. They confirm to me that what we learn in our media is sometimes far below what is actually happening. We've all seen the video of this woman, a pacifist activist, who gets boarded with unheard of violence. Since then, this woman has disappeared. Other women also disappeared and were later found dead. This is also confirmed by Human Rights Watch. According to the organization, the police used excessive force against the demonstrators and committed serious violations against the detainees. Minister, we have a common history with Chile. We have strong ties to Chilean democracy. This country, which has had one of the bloodiest diets in the world, unfortunately seems to relive the darkest hours of its history. Even if President Piñera has condemned – forced and forced, I would say – police violence, our concerns must take the form of a strong reaction from our diplomacy, both bilaterally and multilaterally. Minister, can you give us a snapshot of the situation, particularly with regard to your relations and the information you receive through your diplomatic network? What is Belgium's position in international fora and in the European Union? Have you had bilateral contacts with the Chilean authorities? If so, what message did you send them?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u34	Mr Prévot, we have already had the opportunity to talk about the situation in Chile – not only in this House, but also on a European scale. At the beginning of the month, I also discussed it with the Chilean Ambassador in Brussels. More fundamentally, the situation deteriorated very quickly. You have cited several concrete cases. There are more than 20 deaths, 1,500 injuries, hundreds of arrests. Clearly, the local authorities have been overwhelmed by the events. The first step, which is still being taken by the European Union, is to ask the authorities to ensure that their reaction is proportionate and that the use of force does not go beyond what is necessary for the restoration of order. Beyond this recovery, you know that the government team has undergone some changes. Above all, on 15 November, an agreement was reached between the government and most of the opposition leaders to move forward in an indispensable direction, namely a revision of the Constitution. On this basis, they intend to develop reforms, for example in the field of health or education. We will see if they can be implemented. You're asking me what the current situation is. It remains particularly worrying, given the difficulties in restoring order and the use of force by the Chilean authorities. On a national level, but above all on a European level – because that is where we can exercise a greater weight – we will continue to advocate for a peaceful and peaceful application of the agreement. Above all, it is important that it be translated not only into constitutional changes, but also into changes in social reality and in education. You know that the situation was so dramatic that several events had to be cancelled. Fortunately, Spain has offered to host COP25, this major event on combating climate change. APEC (Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation) meetings were also cancelled. Perhaps other decisions of the same nature will follow. We are therefore following developments very closely. But, I repeat, the weight we can exert on this issue will be much more decisive within the European Union than through bilateral exchanges, even if the steps and messages are identical and also transmitted to the Chilean authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u35	Minister, thank you for your answer. This was certainly the last time I could question you in this House. I assume that you will defend human rights at other levels, in particular at European level. Perhaps you can ask the person who will succeed you to be attentive to this also within our country. We too must remain at the forefront of these popular uprisings, which we can meet in our countries, and of the proportionate reaction of the forces of law and order. I hear you're still keeping contacts. I believe that, in view of the common history we have with Chile, we must be responsive, not stand by and continue to raise awareness in European and international forums.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u36	Mr President, Minister, it is not without emotion that I address you for the last time in this House. I would also like to remind you that my first speech was addressed to you at the time, twelve years ago, as Minister of Finance. Time passes. I'm moved. Minister, you are talking about an important issue, and I know that he will also hold you in your future duties. We have had to take up this issue on a regular basis in recent years. It must be noted that relations between the State of Israel and the Palestinian Authority are once again going through a very difficult period. The firing of more than 450 rockets into the inhabited areas of Israeli territory from the Gaza Strip, the impossibility of forming an Israeli government for many months and the prospect of a third election in March 2020, as well as the latest American decision to consider Israeli settlements as perfectly legal are only a few elements that obviously aggravate the situation. Belgium has always considered that the situation in Israel is and will never be negotiable. It must be part of a regional regulation. We reiterate our unwavering support for the two-State solution, but we also consider Israel's settlement policy in the occupied Palestinian territories to be contrary to international law, including the Fifth Geneva Convention. It contravenes Security Council resolutions, including resolution 2334. With nearly 650,000 settlers in the West Bank and East Jerusalem, we are close to a point of no return. Let me turn to the questions, Mr. President. I know you're very strict about this. After eight brilliant years, Minister for Foreign Affairs, at the head of our diplomacy, I would like you to remind us of the Belgian position on the Middle East peace process and the condemnation of unilateral decisions taken by the parties calling into question the two-State solution. I would also like to know whether we support the field presence of the Director of Human Rights Watch in Israel and Palestine. Pending a lasting peace that provides a realistic and lasting just solution, the question of Palestinian refugees is essential. What is the organization's ability to implement its mandate and continue its operations? Finally, how can we reconcile American and European positions on this difficult issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u37	Mr President, Mrs Jadin, first of all, it is a matter which has been very busy for us and not just for the last eight years. Unfortunately, the conflict in the Middle East has been going on for a long time. I would like to go back to two or three points that you mentioned. For the first, as Belgians but also as Europeans, we continue to advocate for a two-state solution that must involve direct negotiations between the Palestinian Authority and what should one day become an Israeli government again. The second element is that we call for respect for international law. That is why there is a great deal of concern in the European Union, as in Belgium, when we look at the evolution of the American position on colonization. We consider these settlements to be contrary to the international order. They must therefore be firmly condemned. You will recall that I have repeatedly asked that at Benelux level - and I hope we will be able to make very concrete progress - we even go towards the labelling of products from these colonies so that the citizens can see what kind of product they are dealing with. However, we have — I have always repeated — an understanding of Israel's security concerns. A two-State solution probably requires the same capital, Jerusalem, but also guarantees of economic development and security for these two States in the future. We will continue to work in this direction. With regard to human rights defenders, we have already asked Israel to reconsider its position. You're actually talking about Omar Shakir, the official who saw his visa denied. We've already discussed it in committee. I think it was a question of Mr. From Vriendt. How can we reconcile the American position with the European position? I don't know if, for now, that's achievable. Above all, what should be reconciled is the idea of re-establishing the Palestinian authorities and the Israeli authorities around the table and ensuring that the two-State solution is clearly favoured. It is in this sense that we wish to work. Thank you for allowing me to take stock of this issue, which will continue to be your concern for a very long time. Mr President, I will probably have to send you a letter in the hours or days to ask you to put an end to my activities in this House, at least for a period, after 27 years of presence on these benches and after about 20 years on the bench of ministers. I'll wait until I sign this letter. Who knows if, in the years to come, you will not ask me questions from time to time? Or perhaps I will come back to this House myself to ask questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u38	For the reply, I would like to thank Minister Reyners for so many years of political commitment. We met in the time of the opposition. We were together in the opposition, as group leaders, for ten years, and we found it too long at that time. You have now been in the majority for 20 years, as minister and in various positions. I think I can go beyond the limits of majority and opposition if, on behalf of you, I wish Minister Reynders a good speed in Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u39	Mr President, Minister, thank you for resuming the Belgian position on this matter. This is a consistent position in a difficult case where respect for human rights, international law and the legitimate demands of everyone is very important. Mr Minister, as you have rightly said, we will continue to be occupied for a long time with this very difficult and difficult issue at the international level. I hope that this House will fully assume its responsibilities in this area in the near future, should it be asked to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u40	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, last week Foster Care in Flanders organised the Week of Foster Care. In this way, foster families were rightly put on the market, families who work every day for vulnerable children or in some cases also for adults with disabilities or mental illness. In Flanders, as many as 7,100 children are currently taken care of in a foster family. Although the number of foster homes has increased, there are still children on the waiting list. In Flanders there is a need for care for about 980 children and I assume that Brussels and Wallonia have similar figures. One of the ways to support foster families and to convince families to take the step towards foster care is the granting of foster leave to families receiving a foster child, in accordance with a bill approved in the Chamber last year. That is why there are two problems. At the beginning of this year there was a problem with the payment of benefits, which apparently had to do with implementing decisions. Another problem, which has not yet been resolved, is that the foster leave can only be taken once the foster child is officially dominated with the foster parents. Despite a court judgment, it sometimes takes a long time for the foster parents to receive the judgment and in larger cities it may also take a long time for a district agent to come by to determine the place of residence of the foster child. However, it is important for foster parents to be able to take leave from the start to receive the child properly. Madam Secretary, are the problems of payouts now gone? I hope so. Do you see possibilities to allow foster leave once the judge has placed the child for a long time and therefore from the moment the child is effectively staying with the foster parents, even though the direct debit is not yet complete?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u41	Mrs Lanjri, since the beginning of this year, foster parents have been able to take longer leave for the foster care of a child for at least six months. This applies both to the self-employed and to employees. They will then receive a benefit through the sickness fund from the fourth day of that leave. The first three days they get their pay. The benefits are the same as for adoption leave. In the case of foster care for a minor child, one is still entitled to six weeks of foster leave. The basic period may also be extended. This extension will increase in the following years. It can be extended by five weeks by 2027. The weeks can be divided between the foster parents. At the beginning of this year my then colleague Kris Peeters and I had to take a number of royal decisions on the payment and on the admission of leave. The Royal Decree was published on 23 March and had retroactive effect. We've made inquiries. We are told that there are no problems with the payment of leave payments through the sickness funds. At the moment, that's going smoothly. There may be problems in the first cases. We will not be able to assess the impact of the measure until the Inter-Mutualist Agency gives us the figures, which are indeed kept by the sickness funds. A direct debit has been chosen because it is a long-term foster leave. A judge's decision is not enough, the foster child must really be dominated with the foster parents, so that the foster child would be considered a member of the family. I can't change that much, but I'd like to see how things can go faster. If necessary, you should contact Mr Geens or the municipality where a problem is identified.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u42	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. Last year the proposal I put forward together with Kristien Van Vaerenbergh was adopted. Now the parents each have the right to six weeks and one week of their choice, a total of thirteen weeks of foster leave. This goes on to 17 weeks, but it will take a few more years before that becomes possible. Anyway, that's how we decided. We also decided that the direct debit should be there. It is now clear that the place of residence sometimes takes months to arrive. It's not because the child hasn't officially been dominated, that it's not actually staying there. The law states that it must be a long-term placement of six months or more. If there is a judge's judgment but no judgment and a placement by the foster care service, for example, then certificates could be issued. We would like to resolve the issue, hopefully with your support, so that parents can take that leave in the initial period. We can't allow abuse. I agree, but parents should not suffer from administrative problems. The foster parents are just the ones who are committed to creating a warm nest for vulnerable children.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u43	Mrs Lanjri, I would like to say that you would no longer have a micro next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, three fatal accidents! Three fatal road accidents in a short period of time in the same region, Tuesday afternoon: Boortmeerbeek, Haacht and Rotselaar. In addition, two cyclists lost their lives: a 76-year-old woman and a 74-year-old man, each in a blind spot accident with a truck. A day earlier in Temse, a man was dragged 20 metres away: a blind spot accident with a truck. Luckily, that man survived. One more day earlier, Monday, in Castle, a 57-year-old cyclist leaves his life. You can already guess: a dead angle accident with a truck. So much for the sad balance, the deadly balance of three days. Fifty percent of the dead-angle accidents are serious. One in five, we're gonna regret a deadly victim. One in four is a severely injured one. My question is self-evident, Minister. Will you take measures to reduce the number of dead-angle accidents involving trucks? If so, what measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u45	My dear colleague, every victim in traffic is one too many. Therefore, as a government, we must do everything we can to avoid the causes. Same thing with blind spot accidents. In 2009, Europe required blind-angle mirrors or cameras for all trucks. These systems do not yet prevent all accidents, but this was an important step. There are also other technological solutions on the market, such as the warning system that shows a driver with a signal that there is a pedestrian or cyclist near the truck. From 2022 onwards, Europe will require this equipment, a measure that I have always advocated. We are here in the Federal Chamber, but I ask my regional colleagues and all the mayors to take action on the infrastructure, for example by separating freight traffic from bicycle traffic at intersections. The square green introduced by the federal level offers important opportunities to increase security. I also call on the Regions to continue their efforts to raise awareness. From childhood onwards, the dangers of the blind spot should be highlighted. I would therefore like to thank the sector organisations which are doing a great deal on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u46	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I hear you say a number of things that refer to Europe, what will happen and what has already happened in the past. And you also refer to the Regions. I would like to point out that you can also do a great deal yourself, even though you are part of a government in current affairs, which is perhaps half-flying and has to operate within certain financial lines. You can also organise awareness campaigns yourself, in a broad sense or aimed at target groups such as schools, weak road users or truck drivers. There are a lot of technical means, such as sound signals and a sticker on the back of the truck. The Kortrijke Fietsersbond has designed a model for this purpose. Why don't you sit around the table with those governments yourself? Don't refer to it, but sit down with the local authorities and the regional governments and work together to see the infrastructure and signalization. In the training of truck drivers, place more emphasis on the blind spot problem or on refining viewing techniques. There's so much you can do, but I can't hear you say that. The Flemish Interest calls on you to take your responsibility, to really get to work and to make a change in this blind spot problem, because any victim that we can avoid is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u47	Mr Toventers, this was a statement within the timing, without written preparation and, moreover, with your maiden speech. Congratulations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u48	Mr Minister, while the families of thousands of Proximus workers have been frighteningly waiting for months to see the future, and while their trade union representatives have been giving the best of themselves for months to manage and guide the transformation of Proximus in a humane manner, the board of directors actually declared war on them yesterday: 1,300 workers are flowing. They're getting a letter on the bus tomorrow saying they can be fired. Merry Christmas to you too... "Are you going to pay off my barf?" For example, the distress call of one of the staff yesterday sounded during the action against the chairman, Stefaan De Clerck. When the redundancies were announced almost a year ago, Prime Minister Michel said in Parliament that the only way the restructuring could take place was through social dialogue. Yesterday, however, it appeared that the board simply pushed through its restructuring plan, without the agreement of the two trade unions in the joint committee and just on the day when a new CEO was appointed. The social dialogue, as it is compulsory for public companies, was, in my view, coldly excluded. I therefore have a few questions, Minister, since Proximus is a public undertaking. What role has the government played in this? Was there a mandate from the government to the shareholder to push through the restructuring plan without agreement in the Joint Committee for Public Enterprises?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u49	Mr. President, Minister, thousands of workers are worried about their future in a society to which they have dedicated themselves for years. More than ever, the 13,000 Proximus workers wonder what sauce they're going to eat. They wonder which of them will pay the costs of the transformation plan, which will be carried out following the decision taken by Proximus' board of directors, no later than yesterday. This is a plan that provides for the elimination of 1,300 jobs. This decision was taken in total disregard of social consultation, but also – as my colleague from the Sp.a recalled – of the commitments made by the Prime Minister, Charles Michel, in this House on 10 January. Indeed, at the time, he had assured us that his government would ensure that social dialogue was maximized. We see the result today! I wanted to use this rostrum, Minister, to assure the workers and their families of my solidarity, but also to ask you about your government's responsibility in this matter. Whether you want it or not, it is your obstinacy to bring a fourth operator into the telecommunications sector that has led to the threat to the jobs we are talking about today. I'm not saying it, minister, it's HSBC, Agoria or the FEB you probably know very well. My party had tabled a motion for a resolution on this matter. As the principal shareholder of this company, your government has the opportunity to prevent the social disaster that is set to take place. Minister, do you have the political will to prevent this disaster? How do you intend to do this in practice?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u50	Mr President, Minister, for living as a worker the closure of Caterpillar, I know what is going on today with those of Proximus. Since yesterday, they have been carrying out actions throughout the country because they refuse the plan that Dominique Leroy, the former CEO of this company, had launched. I am thinking today of the jointmen who vent the sidewalks to repair the breakdowns and who have broken their backs even before the age of sixty – I am not even talking about sixty-seven years. I'm also thinking about the call center employees who barely have time to have a drink between two phone calls. It is these same workers who have made Proximus the modern, efficient and flourishing company that it is now. Last year alone, the company earned €506 million in profits: more than half a billion! The transformation plan has a nice name, but I will explain to you what is happening: a transformation is a small caterpillar that becomes a butterfly, a tadpole that becomes a frog, etc. But here, it is not a transformation, but a plan for dismissal. It is 1,300 workers who will find themselves on the street! Tomorrow, it will be the Black Friday of Proximus workers. I am also thinking of those who are going to stay and who will have to fill the work of those who are leaving. Their working conditions will be worse than before. Minister, I'm going to ask you two questions. On Proximus' current board of directors, five directors are appointed by the government: Mr. Stefaan De Clerck (CD&V), Ms. Isabelle Santens and Mr. Karel De Gucht (Open Vld), Ms. Martine Durez (PS). I will be clear: have they approved the restructuring plan? Finally, last but not least, the majority of workers rejected the social agreement. This means that the two-thirds majority, which is necessary in the joint committee concerned, has not been reached. Therefore, management does not have the right to impose this plan. Will you accept that a public company flouts social consultation or will you exercise your power as a principal shareholder and demand that the board of directors and its chairman, Mr. From Clerck, resume negotiations?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u51	Mr D'Amico, I congratulate you on your first speech. It was a little long, but for the rest: bravo!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u52	Mr Minister, the board of directors of Proximus appointed Guillaume Boutin as the new CEO yesterday. I am pleased that a turbulent period initiated by Dominique Leroy, who would make the switch to KPN, is coming to an end so relatively quickly. I am also pleased to read that the new CEO would mean a fresh breeze, a CEO without tie and sneakers, but also a technically and financially competent person. In short, it is someone who could have been cut to guide Proximus through the coming process. After all, this is a challenging company that now needs a transformation. I would also like to stress that the Governing Board has independently designated this new CEO. Politics has not interfered. Fortunately, telecom companies are no longer run by politics at this time. The new CEO immediately received a very heavy assignment on his plate. On the day of his appointment, the trade unions in the Joint Committee rejected the social plan. However, everyone knows that the digital transformation plan, which involves the transformation of this profitable business into a modern data company, is absolutely necessary. This is a major challenge, both for him and for his staff. I regret the need for redundancies, but this is crucial to prepare Proximus for a strong company that is sufficiently armed to offer a future to all stakeholders, to follow technological developments, to prepare for the roll-out of 5G and to resist competition. In De Tijd, however, we read that the CEO should work with tied hands and wonder what the government wants of Proximus. I must say, Minister, that surprises me. What advice would you give the new CEO?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u53	Mr Minister, I would like to begin by congratulating the new CEO, Guillaume Boutin. Perhaps he had imagined his first working day somewhat differently. The announcement of his appointment yesterday fell short of the question of whether the board of directors appreciates social dialogue. Like our energy network, our digital network is incredibly important for our economy, for our country and for our citizens. So we have to make Proximus a strong company. However, Proximus' transformation plan reads as a chronicle of an announced failure. Already from the beginning in January 2019 there were tensions between employers and employees. Despite many well-intentioned attempts, these tensions have not improved in recent months, with yesterday as a icing on the cake the social consultation that is being thrown into the garbage can. You should remember that you are one of Proximus' 13,000 employees. You'd lose confidence in your boss for less, wouldn't you? Let trust be just what we need in order for negotiations to succeed. That is why I have two questions for you, Minister. Why did the board push through the transformation plan for the first time in 20 years without the agreement of the social partners? There's gonna be conversations. However, the question arises as to whether there is still scope for negotiation in these talks. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u54	There are two more questions that come from the committee. The first question is from Mr Spooren and the second is from Mrs Zanchetta.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u55	Mr Minister, yesterday it became known that the Proximus restructuring plan was rejected by two of the three trade unions. One of the reasons for rejecting this is that, according to the trade unions, the voluntary departure plan for older workers should be generalised for all older workers, regardless of their qualifications and status. Easily translated, the planned naked layoffs should be replaced to a large extent by putting older contractual workers at home while maintaining between 70% and 75% of their wages and statutory contributions should be able to retire early through the FVO scheme from 58 years of age. Minister, there have been many questions in this House about restructuring with early retirement of older workers, but there has always been one red line, in particular the current legislative framework. Existing laws always had to be respected until they were replaced. That's the problem here. Today we are threatening to cross that red line for the first time. Proximus proposes a number of measures for which no legislative framework exists or for which it needs to be adapted. They ask the FP scheme to be extended for a further three years from the age of 65. In addition, Proximus asks that the legislative and executive powers turn a blind eye to contractual employees in the application of the activation contribution approved in 2017. Proximus believes that she can escape the activation fee by placing the employees prolonged in termination. Minister, what is your response as a competent minister to these proposals? Will you intervene as a guardian minister in the exception that Proximus intends to implement for the purposes of Article 37 of the employment contract law with regard to notice periods? Will you answer the implicit question of Proximus to allow a KB to extend the VVP system?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u56	Mr President, Minister, the rejection of the Memorandum of Understanding by a majority of Proximus staff is a serious failure. First, for the staff concerned. Then, in the history of the public enterprise. This was the last episode of a process that had started very badly when all workers dryly learned that their jobs, their future and their family's were suspended. Proximus workers feel as if they are the adjustment standards of a company that they themselves have made successful and leading in their sector. Worse still, it is the technological development of this sector that is now used as a pretext to justify dry layoffs. We wonder how a public enterprise can justify dry layoffs when it has the means to deal with the challenges it could not ignore. Proximus cannot behave as if its principal shareholder were an American pension fund. For my group, it is time for public companies to return to their role as role models in the way they treat their workers. So, Minister, how do you explain that a company as efficient as Proximus can perform dry layoffs in order to cope with the expected and foreseeable evolution of the digitization of our society? And do you understand that every solution must absolutely and necessarily go through social consultation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. I'd like to start by sketching the retroacta. In January Proximus announced that a transformation plan was needed to further prepare the company for the future. Since then, extensive information and consultation have been launched, which has also led to negotiations since June. Those negotiations have paid off, too. Originally they talked about 1,900 jobs. Meanwhile, we're at 1,300 jobs. A number of naked layoffs could also be avoided. Many internal retraining projects have been re-launched and offered to people to find new jobs within the company. None of the statutes were required to leave the company. Contractors who have to leave the company will be escorted. All these matters are the result of the social negotiations that have taken place in recent weeks, under the watchful eye of social mediators appointed by the government. At the same time, the board of directors remains convinced that the transformation plan is essential: Proximus must accelerate its digital transformation in order to protect the company for the future. This is very clear not only for the board of directors but also for us as a shareholder. It is indeed essential to ensure that the existing procedures are respected. That is also the case. For example, no new early retirement measures are being created for Proximus. The integrated plan therefore fits within the existing framework. On the contrary, the decision of the Management Board must put an end to the uncertainty that many of you have outlined. The plan must be continued to give Proximus growth opportunities for the future. Now is the time to make it clear how that can happen. There must be clarity for the workers. The board will continue to consult with the trade unions after today. Certain implementing arrangements of the plan may then be adapted if necessary. A new meeting will take place on 9 December. But it is clear that the whole of the transformation plan will be implemented. For me, it is important to make another point. Here are some speeches that raise a lot of problems regarding the role of shareholders in the company. Yes, Proximus is an autonomous public company, but it is also a listed company. I would like to stress once again, as I have done in the past in the committee, that I will continue to respect the rules of corporate governance. This means that I will not replace the board of directors, the CEO or the management. It is up to the company to make choices about the strategy, to consult with the trade unions, to convene the joint committee and to conclude agreements. It is also up to the management of the company to make adjustments, if there are any changes to be made. Hopefully this will lead to a final agreement. It is also up to the company to expand Proximus' strategy. It is also up to the company to implement that strategy. Those are the rules of good governance, those are the rules of corporate governance. I will always stick to that. It is clear that with the appointment of the new CEO and the simultaneous decision of the Board of Directors to implement the transformation plan, Proximus is entering a new period. I hope the new CEO will be executive committee and his board of directors can take part in the growth story of Proximus, which we all hope will make a success for the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u58	Minister, last year in the Chamber it was promised that the transformation would take place through social dialogue. What happened yesterday, I call not a social dialogue, but a dictation. Whatever you say about the way in which an autonomous public body should be managed, the government is and remains the majority shareholder and has an exemplary role to play. In that sense, the transformation plan should not have been a redundancy plan. The government must invest in its people to enable the digital transformation and the future of that company. I think Proximus needs everyone to turn that company into a modern company. One possibility is the reinvestment of part of the dividends in one's own people, so that there is no need for a redundancy plan and everyone can be included in that future story. It is too easy, on the basis of the announcement that there will be social consultation on the transformation, to pull our hands off it, while we now have to find that the staff are being dumped cold.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u59	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. To hear you, the transformation plan is a good plan. Some workers would have been retrained. We are said to have increased from 1,900 to 1,300 jobs. Therefore, we should be content and satisfied with it. Forgive me for telling you that 1,300 jobs are way too much! I expected real guarantees from you to avoid a social tragedy. I hear you're not CEO of Proximus, but you're still Minister of Telecommunications. As a result, we are entitled to expect from you not only anticipation, but also voluntarism. In fact, Prime Minister Charles Michel had said in this forum that he would guarantee social consultation, and that he would ensure that the decision was respectful of the staff. We are very far from it today. I am therefore very disappointed with your answer. It is really moving away from the commitments made by the previous Prime Minister. Otherwise, in Parliament, we would like to ensure that we defend workers and guarantee them a right to vocational qualification and retraining throughout their careers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u60	Minister, I almost want to laugh when I hear your answer. I will not laugh, out of respect for the workers who will lose their jobs. But I want to laugh when you tell me that you have no power as a majority shareholder. I'm from a private company. There, when a restructuring is decided, it is not even the board of directors that does it, it is the majority shareholder. It is he who decides to close such a business. Today, you have the power as a majority shareholder, and you do not use it. I would like to express my great disappointment, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u61	Minister, I understand that there is a great deal of disappointment about the redundancies, but I would like to express my support for corporate governance. In many companies in difficulty, there is a transformation going on. If we here in Parliament have to say something about all these companies, the fence is the dam. There must be clear governance that looks clearly at all stakeholders. There is no company that chooses to just carry out redundancies. Nobody wants that. Every company gets hard on good people. So it is not a choice of free will, but a choice to give a future to the keepers, with whom further to the future can be built.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u62	Minister, I would like to say again: our digital network is important for our economy. The goal is therefore to make Proximus a thriving company, with a strong CEO, who has a vision and knows how to lead Proximus to the future. However, this can only be done with satisfied workers. And so Ecolo-Groen asks the government, the main shareholder of Proximus, that the board of directors take the social consultation seriously again, so that employees and employer can come out together. After all, that's what the company needs.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u63	Mr Minister, we cannot accept Proximus' plans, which mainly target older workers and retiring them or putting them at home, in the current socio-economic conditions. The level of activity must be increased and job vacancies must be filled elsewhere in order to continue to finance our social security. I therefore call for a drastic change of course, not only at Proximus but also in a number of other companies. In future, let us use restructuring budgets to retrain and relocate workers in other jobs or other companies, where their experience and talents are much needed. Proximus undoubtedly has a very great responsibility in this regard. We, politicians, too, must play a role in this. We have the task of organising labour market regulation and social security regulations in such a way that maximum job mobility and flexibility are possible and that workers are facilitated and encouraged to move to other jobs. The N-VA wants to contribute to this. We will therefore come forward with a package of activation measures in the coming weeks. We hope to find partners in the hemisphere to translate this into real legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u64	Minister, thank you for your answers. Let me tell you that, for my group, there is no alternative to social consultation. A company – and all the more so if it is public – that has built its success thanks to its workers cannot get rid of it overnight! Proximus's men and women are not and will never be accounting adjustment standards!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u65	Mr President, Minister, I received a glove this morning which I had to hand over to you. The woman in question told me to give it to Mr Beke, Minister for Labour, but she didn't know that you had become Minister of Work in the meantime. I'll give you that glove I got from someone from the Christian union. I got a red one myself from someone from the socialist union. They took action today. The woman who gave me that glove told me she was broken, that her back was broken. She said to me, "You should know how many furniture and buckets I have to move. My back's broken. And you know how much I make? EUR 11.50 gross per hour." Those people who came to Brussels today are from Wallonia, Brussels and Flanders. It's people like Sabine who've been busted up and asking for a serious pay raise. That is why I am addressing you. They're asking for a pay raise, and that's just a problem. In this Chamber, after all, a number of years ago, the wage bill was tightened up again, which means that storage in our country may not exceed 1.1 %. This means that for people like Sabine there could be a maximum of 13 cents per hour. But they have not even been allowed to do so, because what does the large sector of interim companies say? The sector says it does not want 1.1 %; it does not want 0.6 %, i.e. 7 cents per hour. People like Sabine, the housekeepers in our country, could therefore earn a maximum of 7 cents gross extra. That's outrageous. That is why I have a question for you on federal matters, in particular on wage formation. Will you intervene as Minister of Work and urge those large interim companies to achieve at least that 1.1 % premium? Will you, as the competent Minister of Work, support the initiatives taken in this House to raise the minimum wage to EUR 14 or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u66	Mr Mertens, for the period 2019-2020, no sectoral agreement has been concluded in the Joint Committee 322.01, which includes the service cheque companies. Eight meetings have been held since May in the context of wage and working conditions in the sector. As you know, the negotiations are at an impasse; hence the actions that have taken place today. I clearly feel that the employers and the trade unions agree on the objective of sustainable financing of the jobs of service cheque companies. No agreement has been reached today. Trade unions demand a gross increase of 1.1 %. You said it yourself, that corresponds to the maximum wage margin granted in addition to indexation and barren increases. Let me be very clear, Mr Mertens: I find it incredibly regrettable that the increase of 1.1%, which has been applied for many sectors for months today, could not be granted to those people who give a great deal of support to many families. I therefore believe that their demand for an increase of 1.1 % is justified. We have heard the arguments of the employers. They talk about profitability. As you know, prices, subsidies and tax deductibility are also competences of our regions. In yesterday's debate in the Flemish Parliament, the Minister for Labour promised to identify the effects on profitability. The federal tax shift has ensured that a financial margin was given to the service sector. I therefore think it is only logical and I hope that agreement will soon be reached between the employers and the trade unions on that 1.1 %. A further joint committee is scheduled for 13 December. I'll wait and see. We have mediation at our disposal. It can be both before and after 13 December, but I will wait that day. I think the question is legitimate. My services will therefore provide the necessary support.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u67	Mr President, Minister, we must be serious and not just look at this sector. However, as you know, the situation in this sector is most distressing. After all, it is a sector in which many women work. It is a sector that is at a crossroads of both social and gender discrimination and often of discrimination in origin. In the sector, a wide range of people work against a hunger wage. It would therefore be good, should the current government send a signal, to enforce at least that increase of 1.1 %, especially with regard to the large players, who still paid dividends of 18 million euros and more in 2018. Those big players want to give only 7 cents gross extra today. You can't do that anymore. However, there is another debate. There is also a debate on the wage bill in our country. It is no longer of this time that in such sectors 1.1 % is the maximum storage. It is no longer of this time that a political group, which earns a multiple of these amounts, imposes on others that they may earn a maximum of EUR 11.63 per hour to clean their homes. That gap with a privileged group that deserves a lot and decides that other weaker people can earn up to EUR 11.63 per hour is no longer of this time. Madam Minister, that debate on respect for labour must also be dared to take place here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u68	Mr President, Madam Minister, we only hear about this on the radio: since 2015, the Black Friday has been growing in scale in Belgium. It comes from the United States where we organize monster promotions for consumers the day after Thanksgiving. This poses two problems. On the one hand, this Black Friday almost obliges small independent traders to make promotions, too. Tomorrow, 29 November, it is the day for many independents to pay salaries and bonuses at the end of the year and they tell me that it is untenable, unsustainable for them and that they cannot fight against these huge chains of stores. And I'm not even talking about the internet sales that make them a clearly unfair competition. They have absolutely no means to bear this. It's a problem for the self-employed. In the Walloon Region, for example, Willy Borsus pleads to revitalize the city centres and support our small independents. Black Friday is totally against this kind of policy. On the other hand, are these real price cuts for consumers? Did they compare prices and not get caught? Minister, what is the impact of this Black Friday on our economy, businesses, traders and independents? What about consumers? Is the Economic Inspectorate verifying whether these are actually balances?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u69	Mr President, Mrs Reuter, thank you for your question. Phenomena such as Black Friday or Cyber Monday come from across the Atlantic and have become very popular. In the last few days, I've seen ads and messages on social media; I've seen the pros and cons go through. I am the Minister responsible for consumer protection. It is therefore my duty to ensure that promotional actions are correct and do not mislead consumers. Deceptive commercial practices are prohibited. In concrete terms, this means that promotional measures must offer an effective benefit to consumers. Last year, the Economic Inspectorate conducted an initial investigation based on complaints filed following the Black Friday. This year, the Inspectorate is taking a proactive approach. It has already initiated a preliminary investigation by means of price monitoring. It's important. This should make it possible to verify more quickly whether the promotional prices this Friday are actually more advantageous. Of course, any complaints will also be considered. As you have said, it is striking that the phenomenon extends very strongly to many sectors and exerts pressure on margins everywhere. Black Friday is just one of many opportunities for traders to award discounts. The fact that it is mostly small traders who react is understandable. Some would like the number of shares to be limited. I understand their concerns, but we cannot impose such restrictions because European rules on commercial practices aimed at maximum harmonisation do not impose them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u70	Madam Minister, thank you. At the consumer level, I am pleased to hear that you have taken the lead and that a real audit is in place to monitor the veracity of these promotions. As far as small traders are concerned, I understand the free competition. It is defended; I also defend it, but it is true that this phenomenon is catastrophic for our independents, who still represent a large part of our economy. In my opinion, it is necessary to support them. I invite you to work with us to support our small independents as much as possible and to prevent us from being drowned by this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u71	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u72	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 November 2019, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session the draft law amending the General Customs and Excise Act of 18 July 1977 and the Value Added Tax Code transposing Directive (EU) 2017/1371, Nos. 706/1 to 4. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 November 2019, I propose that the draft law amending the General Law on Customs and Excise of 18 July 1977 and the Value Added Tax Code transposing Directive (EU) 2017/1371, Nos 706/1 to 4, be entered on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. I also propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: - the draft law (Mr Stefaan Van Hecke, Ms Zakia Khattabi, Ms Katja Gabriëls and Mr Goedele Liekens, MM. Khalil Aouasti and Philippe Goffin, Sophie Rohonyi, MM. John Crombez and Servais Verherstraeten and Mrs Valerie Van Peel) amending article 21 of the preliminary title of the Code of Criminal Procedure, Nos. 773/1 to 4; - the Bill (Mr. John Crombez) amending the Act of... amending the Act of 17 April 1878 containing the preliminary title of the Code of Criminal Procedure with a view to abolishing the statute of limitations on serious sexual offences committed against minors, Nos. 774/1 and 2. I also propose that the following legislative proposals be included on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: - the legislative proposal (Mr Stefaan Van Hecke, Mrs Zakia Khattabi, Mr Katja Gabriels and Mr Goedele Liekens, Mr Khalil Aouasti and Mr Philippe Goffin, Mrs Sophie Rohonyi, Mr John Crombez and Mr Servais Verherstraeten and Mrs Valerie Van Peel) amending Article 21 of the previous title of the Code of Criminal Procedure, Nos 773/1 to 4; - the bill (Mr John Crombez) amending the law of... amending the law of 17 April 1878 on the prior title of the Code of Criminal Procedure with regard to the abolition of the limitation period of serious sexual offences against minors, Nos 774/1 and 2. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u73	Proposals submitted by: Proposals tabled by: - 493: Wouter De Vriendt, Simon Moutquin, François De Smet, Christophe Lacroix, Hervé Rigot Vanessa Matz.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u74	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85 4) (493/7) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85.4) (493/7) The discussion is open. The meeting's open. Mr Francken, do you have a question?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u75	Mr President, I have tabled an amendment. Can that be distributed, because this is what it is about?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u76	I have just delivered it to the services and it is being distributed. Mrs Ponthier, you have the floor for the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u77	Mr President, I am reporting on the work on two proposals for resolutions, on the one hand, Mr De Vriendt's and others' proposal on the spread of displaced migrants and refugees at sea and, on the other hand, Mr Matz's proposal on a request to the government to support the preliminary agreement signed by the Ministers for the Interior of Germany, France, Italy and Malta with a view to establishing a distribution system for asylum seekers between the EU Member States. At its meeting on 13 November, the Committee decided to use Mr De Vriendt's proposal as a basic text for the discussion. Mr De Vriendt, co-author of the motion for a resolution, pointed out during the discussion that migrants and refugees were still trying to reach Europe via the Mediterranean Sea in 2019 and that the crossing from Libya was also one of the most dangerous routes. According to the latest data, Mr De Vriendt, over a thousand people have died at sea in the past year. The situation in the region remains precarious. The applicant also points out that the issue is still under way, according to the applicant, inter alia, as a result of the policy of the previous Italian Government which banned NGOs with migrants and refugees on board to dock in Italian ports. Mr De Vriendt then argues that under international maritime law ships are obliged to rescue people in distress and to take them to a nearby port or safety. It also indicates that the entry into force of the new Italian Government-Conte has led to a policy change, referring to Malta's agreement concluded on 23 September 2019. He also pointed out, however, that it was only a six-month temporary agreement pending a more structural solution and that the scheme was not yet operational. The present proposal calls on the Government to endorse the Malta Agreement and to become a party to that agreement. Co-sponsor Vanessa Matz of cdH indicates that her proposal pursues the same objectives as the present proposal. Mr Darya Safai of the N-VA stresses that migration policy also implies a border policy and that each EU Member State must assume its responsibility in this respect. It points out that its group cannot support the principles set out in the Malta agreement. According to Mrs Safai, the Malta agreement is a symbol of the failing European migration policy and does not provide a real solution pending a reform of the Dublin Regulation. An agreement which is only endorsed by a few States and which is not supported by two first-line Member States, in particular Greece and Spain, cannot be regarded as a European solution. The speaker felt that illegal migration could be stopped by strengthening control at the EU's external borders, depriving rescued persons at sea of the right of asylum and sending them back to a safe third country. According to Mr Safai, reception must take place outside Europe, in ports or safety. It states that Malta's agreement does not meet these conditions, but that, on the other hand, it creates an incentive effect, encouraging illegal migration. Mr Hervé Rigot of the PS pointed out that he supported the motion for a resolution. The speaker also felt that the European Union should recognise and accept the responsibilities of its neighbourhood. He felt that a new European migration policy should be developed with an approach based on human rights and the right to development. According to Mr Rigot, the present proposal for a resolution is a first step, since it seeks to ask the federal government to become a party to the Malta agreement and therefore to take responsibility for it, as well as to give people the opportunity to initiate asylum procedures in our country if necessary. Mr Nabil Boukili of the PVDA-PTB Group supports the motion for a resolution, because he believes that a fair and inclusive distribution of asylum seekers in Europe is important for a correct migration policy that respects human rights. In this context, Mr Boukili said that Malta's agreement could be a stepping stone for a plan to spread asylum seekers across the 27 Member States of the EU. However, Mr Boukili also expressed reservations about a number of aspects of the content of the Malta agreement, including the obligation on migrants to make a binding declaration requiring them to give up a country of destination, which the speaker did not agree to. Mr De Smet of Défi also agreed to this motion for a resolution which he had co-signed. The speaker acknowledged that Malta's agreement was not blissful, but that it involved a multilateral approach, which, according to the speaker, could be the only way out of the migration crisis that Europe is currently facing. Mr De Smet regretted that the government in that country had not itself taken the initiative to ask the Chamber to support the agreement reached by Malta. Mrs Kherbache of the sp.a welcomes this initiative and supports the proposal for a resolution because she believes it is a first step towards a joint action aimed at achieving greater solidarity and cooperation at European level. Moreover, in order to meet the challenges of asylum and migration, Ms Kherbache felt that more Member States should be persuaded to participate in the Malta mechanism. Mr Moutquin of Ecolo-Groen recalls that since early 2019 more than a thousand women, men and children have died trying to cross the Mediterranean. He regretted that Europe was all too often powerless to watch the dramas that were taking place in the Mediterranean. Moreover, Mr Moutquin says that Malta's agreement is not perfect at all. It deserves criticism, for example, because it calls on lifeboats not to hinder the activities of the Libyan Coast Guard. According to my colleague, the agreement should be more ambitious and more detailed. Nevertheless, Mr Moutquin felt that the agreement was a starting point for a European solution to a human and fairer migration policy. In his view, Malta's agreement can provide an initial response to the criticism that Europe is unable to cope with the migration crisis. In his view, of course, further steps should be taken in the coming months to radically reform the Dublin regime. Mrs Verhaert van Open Vld pointed out that a better focus would be on a structural solution. It calls for the establishment of a genuine European asylum and migration policy which should also include a border policy. The speaker felt that Malta's agreement, which was supported by only a few states, could not be seen as a long-term vision. Mrs Van Hoof of CD&V called for a long-term solution and a revision of the Dublin Regulation. In the meantime, the Commission would prefer a solution that puts solidarity and responsibility first as principles. According to Mrs Van Hoof, migrants must be able to be received and distributed more securely and humanely across different countries. It does, however, support this motion for a resolution, but at the same time indicates that this mechanism is temporary and geographically limited to the central part of the Mediterranean. In her view, it certainly represents a step forward in the right direction. So far, Mr President, the brief report on the work of the committee on both dates. With your approval, I'm holding my argument now, aren't I?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u78	Just carry on. We may differ a bit from the order of the speakers' list, but it is more practical this way. There is no limit on speaking time, because the Rules of Procedure do not allow that. However, there are many motions for resolutions on the agenda. A maximum of seven minutes per speaker should be enough, otherwise it will be late tonight.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u79	Mr President, I will do my best. I shall now turn immediately to my speech on the subject when we discuss the motion for a resolution. I would like to put some questions from our group to the Valletta or Malta agreement, which is referred to here. This agreement is the result of a German-French initiative for a voluntary and temporary distribution mechanism for the spread of migrants picked up in the Mediterranean and landed in Italy and Malta. For the sake of clarity, that so-called agreement was concluded between only four countries, namely Germany, France, Italy and Malta. In doing so, the two former countries announced that they would receive 25% of the migrants picked up at sea. A number of other countries would be invited to join this coalition of benevolent countries, but in practice little or nothing of it came about, unlike earlier announcements by the German Minister and the French President. The reasons for this limited enthusiasm are obvious, at least as far as we are concerned. Firstly, there is concern about the signal effect of such a regulation. We believe that this regulation will only strengthen the effect of the extraction of the activities of NGOs in the Mediterranean. To make it concrete, we believe that the good prospects for establishment in Germany, France or Belgium will encourage even more migrants to cross the border and put their fate in the hands of unscrupulous smugglers. There is also a fear that such a temporary and voluntary system could be a stepping stone to a permanent and global distribution mechanism. In this context, we must point out that countries such as Greece, Bulgaria and Cyprus have already indicated that not only Italy and Malta are facing illegal immigrants. It is therefore perfectly predictable, in our view, that the great supporters of this resolution, in particular the proposers, will shortly come forward with a proposal for a temporary and voluntary distribution plan for Greece and so on, because it would be unacceptable to help Malta and Italy and leave other countries, which are facing a much greater burden. More specifically for our own country, Belgium has been facing an increasing number of asylum applications for some time. This increase is not from the last few months, but has been going on for a long time. We have heard the figures recently: in 2018, the number of asylum applications increased by almost 20% compared to the year before, and this year this increase continues. At the moment, we are facing a genuine asylum crisis. I'll try the numbers together. In three years' time, the number of asylum applications rose by almost half in our country. These figures show that Belgium remains a particularly attractive country of asylum and migration. At the same time, the figures confirm that the European external borders are not yet closed, that there is also a great deal of secondary migration within Europe, and that it is a myth that the southern European countries are left alone with the burden. Now, the call for Belgium to receive a fair share of the rescued migrants does not, in our opinion, go far enough, and is therefore not only superfluous but indeed out of place. I conclude by saying that if Belgium joins with this distribution plan, it, together with Germany and France alone, will confirm its reputation as a promising country of asylum and migration, thus increasing its influx into that country. A fatal signal, especially now that it is clear to everyone that we are in the midst of a new asylum crisis and that 500 to 700 additional places in reception should be created every month. At the moment, we should send out just the opposite signal by making urgent efforts at last to reduce influx, inter alia through the tightening of family reunification and by increasing outflow, including by accelerating capacity building in closed return centres. It goes without saying, therefore, that the Flemish Interest Group cannot possibly support this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u80	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mr De Vriendt, Mrs Matz, I was unable to attend the Committee on External Relations, but Darya Safai spoke for N-VA. I'm surprised this was approved. Not because Green or cdH suggested that those are the usual suspects, but I don't think it explains que le MR a voté pour dans la commission. It's incomprehensible. It is also inconceivable and inexplicable to explain that CD&V has approved it in committee. We had a very clear line in the government for four and a half years, when I was Secretary of State, when it came to the dispersal plan. I assume we still have that line. It is therefore also that Open Vld has said that she does not want to participate. The line taken at EU Councils by the relevant Minister of State for Asylum and Migration is not to participate in a European dispersal plan. The line is that we want to participate in a European distribution plan, but that there should be an agreement on the reform of Dublin II. Dublin II is a system that was developed when the European asylum acquis was adopted. One of the most well-known agreements is to try to avoid secondary flows. The primary flow is from all over the world to the European external borders and secondary flows are the flows within Europe. How can we do that? By ensuring that when applying for asylum in a European country one cannot simply travel to the country one chooses. Let me give you an example. A Syrian arrives in Italy, asks for asylum and says he does not want to be in Italy at all, but wants to travel to Belgium. That will not be possible, because if he applies for asylum again and we can prove on the basis of fingerprints that he has applied for his first asylum in Italy, then we will send him back to Italy. That is the Dublin arrangement. That responsibility goes for 18 months, so if that Syrian disappears 18 months off the radar and then suddenly shows up and applies for asylum again in Belgium, we are still responsible. That creates a lot of problems with secondary currents. We have tackled this with the Dublin I and Dublin II regulations, but it remains problematic for North-West European countries. So we have been saying for a long time that the Dublin regulation needs to be amended and that the 18-month deadline should be removed. There must be unlimited responsibility. If you apply for asylum once in a European country, that country will remain permanently responsible, even five years later. We can no longer travel alone, because we are always being sent back to that country, whether it be Belgium, Greece, Italy or any other country. In this context, we can then, if necessary, diversify. I understand, of course, that the countries at the European external borders, such as Greece, Italy and Spain, say that this is not fair, because it means that they become permanently responsible for anyone entering Europe through the external borders. Of course, there are more people in southern Europe than in north-west Europe. That's only logical. So I understand that they want a spread. We want to help and take over some of the people, but that unlimited responsibility is essential to avoid secondary flows. As Mrs De Block has said, one of the main reasons why we are so in trouble with this asylum influx is that a lot of people suddenly show up in Belgium after 18 months. Belgium will not be able to send them back to Italy, Greece or I do not know where. That has always been the view of the Belgian Government. That was Mrs De Block's position, that was my position, and that is once again Mrs De Block's position. Now Parliament, with two government parties, MR and CD&V, suddenly decides to approve the distribution plan as the first country. Who's already in on the distribution plan? These are Germany, France, Italy and Malta. Of course, Italy and Malta are participating, because then they can send people to other countries. France and Italy obviously have political reasons, they want Salvini to be small. Salvini is gone and one must now show that one can do something that Salvini could not, namely that distribution plan. They want to show that this government is better, because they are terrified that Salvini would come back to the Italian government. I don't think it's gonna work. That was, of course, the plan, the great political driving force behind what is going on here. No other country is participating, only Belgium currently facing an asylum crisis. We are currently having a reception crisis, but it seems that we can transfer a few more. None of this is a problem, although we have more asylum applications than Italy. Belgium has much more asylum applications per 1,000 inhabitants than Italy and Malta. We have no more than Greece, but Greece is not involved in the distribution plan. That is why we should transfer our asylum seekers to Italy and Malta. If we want a level playing field, everyone equally influx of asylum through cooperation in Europe, we should actually send asylum seekers to other countries at the moment. That may change, of course, but it has been for the last year and a half. What is happening here is that, if the proposal is approved, Parliament will require the Minister responsible for Migration to take a different position at Council meetings, which is a position indicating that Belgium will participate in the distribution plan. You're gonna have to explain one thing to me. If we take part in the dispersal plan, how the hell can we still have a favourable diplomatic negotiating position so that the 18 months can be effectively removed from the Dublin agreement? The point was Donnant-Donner. Belgium is prepared to take part in the distribution plan provided that Italy and Greece agree to the amendment of the Dublin Agreement. That 18-month period provision should therefore be deleted and unlimited responsibility should be assumed. That is the political deal that we have been working on for years. It's hard. That's right. There's no agreement yet. The discussion is very difficult. It is probably even the most difficult European discussion. However, we are already going along with the story. How hard can a country weaken its own negotiating position? The MR has tabled an amendment. I do not understand the amendment you have introduced. The amendment states that this is separate from the Belgian negotiating position at the European negotiating table. So Belgium is now in favour of the distribution plan, but our position remains the same. That's a totally empty box, isn't it? After all, what did you do? You have already given your point of negotiation to Italy and the South Europeans. They will, of course, never again admit to our point of deletion of the 18-month provision. Why should they? You can say that our negotiating position does not change. You weaken them, however, so you can never make the point again. So I would like to call on the members of CD&V and certainly also of the MR to consider the issue in detail. You put Mrs De Block in an incredibly difficult political situation. This will put Mrs De Block in a difficult situation at the European Migration Councils. We are weakening our negotiating position, which we have been holding for five years. I do not see the need for a sudden change of position at all. I don't see why. What's the occasion? Everything I see just gives reason not to change our position now: the asylum influx, the shortage of reception and the continuous opening of new places, because there is so much influx, including a lot of secondary influx. Mrs De Block mentioned 10%, but it could even be more. I don't get it. I think it's very disloyal. I really don't think you'll be able to solve a lot of problems with that either. I do think you're weakening your negotiating position and making a strategic blunder. So I would like to appeal to everyone, and certainly to the members of the MR and CD&V government, who have been supporting the same policy for five years, that we do want to talk about distribution provided that other countries want to talk about the adaptation of Dublin rules. What's going on? What happened here? I don't follow. Mr President, I have tabled an amendment rejecting the whole concept of the European distribution plan as outlined in the two resolutions before us. I really can't agree to it. It is not only strategically an incredible blunder; I do not agree with the content either. I do not think it is a good signal to fly in after the voter's signal on 26 May in Flanders. I can only say what I have experienced on the Flemish-Brabant markets and on the people in Flemish-Brabant. There is a feeling that much has already been done, on a déjà donné. It is there that people are asking whether there will ever be an end to the flow of asylum and whether we will not get things better and organized properly. That's the signal I heard. I am, of course, only a modest Member of the Chamber, but that is the signal that I have picked up very well and which I am working on by tabling an amendment together with my colleagues Van Camp, Metsu, Safai and D'Haese and calling for a different approach. This approach means that we no longer send out signals to hopeless and desperate migrants, who are looking for a better future in Europe, that they should try to get a place on such a smuggling boat, for which they pay an African annual wage. No, we're not sending out those signals at all anymore. We are ensuring that we save everyone on the Mediterranean. We respect maritime law, including the rule of law that those who are saved must be disposed of in the nearest safe harbour. That is not a port for us in Sicily, on Lampedusa or in southern Italy. For us, these are the ports in Tunisia. That's what needs to be done. Mrs von der Leyen must therefore be given an assignment; there is an important debate in the European Parliament today. The next European Commission must enter into negotiations with Tunisia in order for the boats to sail there and refugees to be received there. That's what I think should happen. That is the only way to effectively tackle the trafficking of human beings.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u81	You're saying you want to drop the migrants off at the nearest port? But what did your Minister Vandeput do with those boats? He has deployed our army to pick up migrants just off the coast of Libya and to transfer them to Belgium, not to the nearest port but to European ports. And now you say you want to do the opposite. Then why didn't you do it when you were in power?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u82	Mr Van Langenhove, it is true that five years ago, at the height of the crisis in the Mediterranean, with the outflow from Libya, we were often that Libyans did not even participate in the Sophia operation in the Mediterranean for one year. That's right. You can repeat that in 20 years' time. We have stopped doing so, because we felt that this was not the solution and that we should stop doing so. You are not a member of the Committee on Defence, Mrs Ponthier was present there, but I tabled an amendment to the operational plan 2020 and asked twice the Minister and the general staff who was present there whether the frigates for Operation Sophia or other rescue operations in the Mediterranean would be deployed in 2020. It has been very clearly confirmed that this would not happen. I told you to keep that line. I think we shouldn't have participated four or five years ago. Because of circumstances at that time there was a lot of demand, there was a lot of outflow, there were a lot of deaths. It is very important that this does not happen again, that is correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u83	In the meantime, you were just acting as a taxi service.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u84	Very briefly, it was said in committee that that would be a political decision, but it was not taken in committee. You're wrong about that. You did indeed ask that question and the general staff replied, but not politics, just to be clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u85	I have a question for you: you are talking about the nearest port, for example Tunisia. But should I remind you that Tunisia is closed today? What do you do? You're just gonna let these people float around? You're gonna let those people drown? Or are you looking for a solution? I understand that you are creating a lot of things here, but I do not hear anything today about a human solution. How do you see it? I agree that the boats have to sail to Tunisia, but that country is closed. Then how will you provide a human answer to the problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u86	Firstly, I understand very well that next year our frigates will be deployed for, on the one hand, the supervision of the French carrier Charles De Gaulle in the Mediterranean. So that has nothing to do with rescue operations or Operation Sophia. I also understand that there will be another frigate for the NATO operation in the Mediterranean. You may always improve me if I am wrong, but that is what I understood from the discussion. I listen with my ears pierced when it comes to rescue operations in the Mediterranean and the deployment of our frigates. The other frigate would be used for the NATO operation on the Mediterranean. That NATO operation is something completely different and completely separate from the Sophia operation, which is a European operation. As I understand it, the NATO operation deals with controls on contraband, oil spills and suspicious acts such as submarines. The operational plan for the deployment of that frigate will be on the agenda of the Council of Ministers tomorrow and we will see. In any case, the position of the N-VA has already been expressed very clearly in the committee: we are not in favour of the use of Belgian frigates for such operations. It's been done before, but everything can be better. It has happened many years ago, but since then we have not done so, because that is not the way in which we will have to deal with and resolve matters in the future. Secondly, Mr Demon, it is true that there is currently no agreement with Tunisia. All I ask is that the government's position be maintained for five years. Personally, I think it is a somewhat strange story that, as indicated by the Belgian Parliament, Belgium as the only country, alongside France and Germany, participates in this Malta initiative, while we ourselves are facing an incredible crisis. I think that's the wrong signal. I cannot solve all the problems of the world, not all the problems in Italian and Maltese waters. So you should not insinuate that we are drowning people, because I said very clearly that we never want to let that happen. Maritime law makes it clear that people in distress at sea are being rescued by the nearest ship. To this end, there has been coordination from Rome for many years. The least insinuation that we would allow people to drown at sea is therefore aberrant, and you know it well.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u87	Mr Francken, you must conclude your speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u88	Mr President, I would like to end my argument. I'm allowed to answer, aren't I?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u89	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u90	We can't solve all the problems. I have never had an Italian colleague on the phone with proposals to solve our problem of transit migration in Zeebrugge. That's our problem. Nor has Mr Carmelo Abela from Malta ever called to ask whether Malta might be able to take over some of the migrants from Zeebrugge. I never heard it worked that way. I do agree that there must be solidarity, but in all directions. We can't solve all the problems. On our Belgian territory we currently have so many problems, including in your city, Mr Demon. You know that very well, and you are also concerned about it. Well, I think we should focus on the problems here, namely crisis relief, asylum and transit migration. We cannot solve the problems of the Mediterranean region, Malta and Italy. We should not now organise a dispersal plan, because that is the wrong signal. You know well enough that people will not understand that signal now. They will wonder whether we may not have enough asylum seekers, as we are still flying in. There is indeed a problem with Tunisia, but that is why we need to negotiate and it is the right time to do so. So I ask no more or no less than to hold the line. Hold on to the line that has been defended by the Belgian government for five years. Be united with Minister De Block, show solidarity with Open Vld and keep that line on. That's all I'm asking. Now, however, the Committee on External Relations is suddenly interfering with a dossier that is so complex. I am sure that I have read the report and that this point on the linking of the distribution plan to Dublin II has not been raised in committee. Isn't that right, Mrs. Safai? Nothing has been said about this in committee, because the members of the Committee on External Relations do not know that. That is absolutely not a reproach, one cannot know everything. The Committee on the Interior knows that, because that is where migration normally belongs. However, this resolution was discussed in the Committee on External Relations. There was a certain optimism about adopting this resolution. However, this weakens our diplomatic negotiating position very much and puts Minister De Block in a very difficult position at Council meetings. That's amateurism, sorry! It may be well-meant, but it's very painful. So Minister De Block has my support. We simply have to stick to the line, especially with a government in current affairs and in view of the asylum crisis. That's all I'm asking.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u91	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for the report. This text was indeed adopted by a large majority in committee. This concerns the question to our government to join the dispersal mechanism described in the Malta Declaration. It is important that this is a distribution mechanism for migrants rescued from the Mediterranean. There is a humanitarian problem there. Boats can't dock. It is important to find a solution that does not impose excessive burdens on certain countries such as Italy, but that responsibility is shared over as many European countries as possible. This fits perfectly into the European tradition of our country. A European approach to migration is something that we all support. I think that very few groups think that each country should solve this problem separately. It is very difficult to make progress at European level. We know that. Mr Francken spoke about the Dublin reform, but this has been the case since 2016. It's hard, that's true. As a supporter of a European approach and European solutions, we are now faced with the Malta Declaration, where five countries have already joined as initiators and where a total of 15 countries sit at the table, either as observers or as pioneers. We're almost there. The question of the new Italian Government is to have as much solidarity and co-responsibility as possible with a distribution plan of migrants, as proposed by the European Commission a few years ago. The Juncker plan also had that dispersal logic. The Dublin Regulation also builds on the distribution logic. The President of the European Parliament has said that Malta's declaration and the distribution mechanism are perfectly in line with the Dublin reform. So one is not at all opposed to the other, quite the contrary. It's in line with it. It is consistent and it is a small step forward. The more small steps we can take towards this European broad approach, the better. In the past, it failed. There's something in front of it today. I understand, of course, that we are in current cases and that a government in current cases cannot make that decision. There has been an allusion to action from Parliament. We have taken the initiative, and I would like to thank colleagues from the various groups for their constructive work and for their amendments in this area. In particular, I would like to thank the colleagues of the MR, the PS, CD&V, sp.a and DéFI. Do we really believe that we can manage migration only at Belgian level? Or do we recognise the need for a European approach? This European approach, of course, contains many elements. That's right. It's not just about the spread of migrants. It is also about the control of external borders, for example, so that we know who comes in and who wants to apply for asylum. And then, ladies and gentlemen, it is the logic itself that we try to spread responsibility for asylum procedures. What do we see now? We note that an arrival country such as Italy is overly charged with asylum procedures. There's no way to do that. Moreover, this has led to an extreme right-wing policy on asylum and migration in Italy. Fortunately, there is now a new Italian government, which says: I stick my neck out, I do want a humane migration policy. Prime Minister Conte will allow boats of NGOs to dock to allow people saved in the Mediterranean to access the country. But Italy is calling for solidarity and co-responsibility from as many European countries as possible to take on the asylum procedures for those people.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u92	Mr President, Mr De Vriendt, it will never be enough for you and your party. We know that. That is also very clear. Never will be enough. There's always room for some more. I have a different opinion on that. In my opinion, it's enough and it's enough for a lot of people. However, that is your ideological position regarding migration contentieux. We know that and we know that. However, you claim that Italy has excessive asylum procedures and applications. It may have many, but less than Belgium. We've got more. We have many more asylum applications than Italy. Now we want to tell Italy that the country can also allow refugees in Italy to fly over to Belgium, although we have a huge shortage of reception facilities. At Fedasil every day it is very problematic to find shelters for everyone. However, you would like to show your willingness to allow some more refugees to come to our country by plane. What you're doing is a sham solution. In the end, you give people vain hope and only make the smuggling industry stronger. You are creating suction effects which will never solve the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u93	Mr Francken, Italy has received 36 485 asylum applications in the last 12 months and Belgium has received 21.115. I know you say that you have to look at it per thousand inhabitants, but the absolute number in Italy is almost twice as high as in Belgium. If we compare the GDP of both countries, I hope you will say, like all the groups here, that it is not acceptable for one country to process so many asylum applications and such influxes of migrants without it being spread within the European Union. That is the European idea. We have been working on a European migration policy for years and this is a first step in the right direction. I would like to touch briefly on a second point that you have just raised. You say that we are already having a hard time finding shelter for migrants in our own country. You say there is a real asylum crisis here. Mr Francken, there is a crisis of reception in our country. It is true, Mrs De Block, that it is difficult to find reception for asylum seekers. Why is that? There is one person responsible for this in this Chamber. You won't find it here or on government banks, you'll have to look in the mirror. You're the one responsible. I find it embarrassing how you have attacked the Liberals and Mrs De Block on this in the last few weeks. You know no shame. When you were Secretary of State, you allowed 100 redundancies to occur in the staff of the Commissioner General responsible for asylum applications. Of course, that creates a bottleneck, with fewer staff to investigate asylum applications. The asylum seekers must therefore stay longer in the asylum centres, which means that there is less room for them. That's not the only point. You have also quickly reduced the number of reception places in the asylum centres. I would like to respond to your criticism. I believe that this is permissible. You've cut the staff at the Commissioner General and DVZ. That was maladministration and bad policy. You wanted to reduce the number of shelters in the asylum centres in an instant in order to be able to score electorally. The result was complete mismanagement, with a decrease to 16,500 asylum places in 2018. Mr Francken, that is so tight that at the very least peak as a country and as a government one gets into trouble. I do not think that these attacks on the liberals in this House and on Mrs De Block are degout and intellectually correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u94	Mr De Vriendt, you are heading for another subject, but I will answer it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u95	No, you brought it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u96	Mr De Vriendt, you want to fly in asylum seekers from Italy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u97	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u98	Don't worry, Mr Calvo. You want to fly in asylum seekers from Italy. That's what's in store. That's your resolution, take responsibility. You say that we will fly asylum seekers in from Italy, because Italy receives more asylum applications than we do. Come on, if you really want to talk about intellectual dishonesty, this is a big deal. All European comparisons of European databases, such as Eurostat and the European Migration Network, are based on x number of asylum applications per thousand inhabitants. You say that there are 30,000 or 36,000 in Italy compared with 22,000 in Belgium, so there are more. Italy has five times more inhabitants. If you want to teach me a lesson about intellectual honesty, be intellectually honest with yourself. We are flying people in from a country that has been receiving much less asylum applications for a long time and has a much lower asylum pressure. What are you doing? Why do we have to do that? We're gonna help them while we're in trouble ourselves. You say we've finished. We had 16,000 places in 2014, when I started. That's about the network that's always been there. We have finished because the influx had fallen very much after the major European asylum crisis. That was decided together with all colleagues in the government. With each budget I have argued for an additional buffer or for maintaining the buffer, and each time I was refused it; too many beds were empty, they had to be closed. Every time it was the same thing. 16,500 places is not bitterly little, that is the normal, stable network of Fedasil. For this, EUR 200 to 220 million are needed every year. That was always provided for. That was also feasible, because the influx had fallen very much. Therefore, contracts with Fedasil, the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless and the Foreign Affairs Office were not renewed. These were contracts of temporary duration, by the way. They'd stop anyway. You insist that I should have provided more buffers. Even if we had kept 4,000 buffers, which is immensely high, we would still have had far too little shelter. Even then, we should have opened asylum centres everywhere. The influx is so high, unseen high, that we are opening asylum centres and we should have created additional capacity even if I had not closed a few.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u99	Mr De Vriendt, I wonder how strange one can be. I know you like to be on the right side of history, but all I hear you say now is "curiers am Symptom." You want to open the tap here and then blame the others for not mopping enough. You're from the coast. Maybe I'll go into a little detail. You want to play the ferryman again on the Mediterranean. Today we are faced with an insurmountable problem of transmigrants. You keep talking about refugees coming here for asylum. But people don't come for asylum. The transmigrants do not come for asylum, they are waiting along the E40 in my congregation and in your congregation to take the transfer to England. And what do we do? Nothing. There's nothing we can do. We can't do anything by parties like yours. I'll explain why there's nothing we can do. We can't get ahold of these people anymore. Even the federal or local police can't do anything. Last week, for example, they did the final work for miles of fence along the E40, so that no more people would crash. There have indeed already been accidents, people about which one does not talk, including three in recent months. That is the current situation on the coast. Why? The police won't even arrest them anymore, because the law won't allow us to arrest them. If they are arrested, photos and fingerprints must be taken and sent to DVZ. What should we do after that, like yesterday in Adinkerke? Yesterday, 10 people were taken out of a truck, one of whom threatened the driver with a knife. The police came along and what did he get? He got a butter note to leave the country. The police with us can no longer arrest these people, because you refuse to amend the law so that they can be sent back home. Today you will be adopting a motion for a resolution to reopen Africa's ferry service here, while we do not have control over the problems of the transmigrants. The transmigrants don't even want to apply for asylum. I want to take you to farms along the E40 or to people in psychiatry, because they're tired of 50 people waiting in their gardens at night to jump into a truck. That's organized. They do not even deal with the traffickers anymore. The police refuse to do anything about it because they can't do it anymore, because you refuse to change the law and want to play ferryman across the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u100	As I said, the position of the Belgian Government has not changed in this regard. I said that at the Council. We already have many requests in our country, we are indeed also faced with secondary migration, we currently have too long lead times, because our procedures are taking too long. The higher influx and the longer procedures by understaff of our asylum authorities, which are now being resolved, but which still have to catch up, ensure a very high saturation of our reception network. We're at 97 percent. I've already opened 5,000 more places and yet we're at the sats when I took over the department. Indeed, shelters were being phased out. I also did that: in 2011 there was a build-up of the reception network and in 2013 and 2014 it was phased out. But now there has been a higher influx for six months and the administration has been understaffed, resulting in delays in handling the files. In the run-up to the Marrakesh adventure, when you probably had other cats to fling, there were signals from both Fedasil and the administration that they couldn't handle it and that more people needed to join. Remember that I recruited staff in February and that I am rehiring, but those staff members for the Commissioner-General have to undergo six months of training, as some of the dossiers concern difficult countries. Well, we calculated it: if the administrations had been able to continue to work at cruising speed, we would now have to look for six thousand places less. That would have been more comfortable, there would have been no suction effect and we wouldn't have been in trouble to open centers everywhere. Put it on someone else, but what you can do yourself, you could do as well.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u101	Ms De Block, the phasing-out plan 1 was approved by the government in 2017. That was carried out meticulously. All closing dates have been well followed. In the spring of 2018, a demand came from the coalition partners to come up with a phasing-out plan 2 as soon as possible because more than two thousand beds were empty. That phasing-out plan 2 was adopted, together with the budgetary control of March 2018. I've done that meticulously. That was on explicit demand, including from your party. You know that very well. Mr De Croo was Deputy Prime Minister. You're a trade minister. These cases were discussed in the nuclear cabinet. There were far too many beds available. We had to get a phasing-out plan 2 before I got money. Furthermore, all contracts of the additional staff expired on 30 June 2018. The higher influx of Palestinians, single men from Palestine and the Gaza Strip, was noted from May 2018. If I had then asked to keep the staff, because there was a continued higher influx for a few weeks again, over seventy people at the CGVS............................................................................................................................................................................................................. There were a lot of places available. There was absolutely no acute situation at the time. That wasn't the case. It was agreed, the year before, that everything would end on 1 July 2018, that there would no longer be an extension due to the budgetary situation of the state treasury. Those are the facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u102	Can we go back to the debate on Mr De Vriendt's motion for a resolution?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u103	Mr Francken, you are trying to defend your wrong decisions when your Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration was here, of course, with a particularly painful reality for you. I understand that you are trying to do that, but the facts are actually very simple: there was only one man responsible for Asylum and Migration, and that was you; you have made decisions that have now gone completely wrong and we have also warned you in Parliament, at that time, in 2017 and 2018. However, you continued to reduce staff and to close shelters, purely because you were able to score electorally. We are seeing the result of this today. It's as simple as that. Mr Dedecker, a debate between coastal residents is always fun. I agree with you: the problem of the transmigrants is poignant. I do not know whether our solutions agree, but of course we can always talk about them. A lot of transmigrants are in the grip of smugglers. Those people have paid big money to a gang of criminals and do not know what to do or what their rights are, let alone their duties, their legal situation and so on. We must give legally correct information to migrants so that they can make a choice, for example, to apply for asylum. If they apply for asylum, they are in a procedure and the government also has control over it. Moreover, the public authorities can do a great deal more on a human level. If, moreover, the asylum procedure shows that these refugees are war refugees, we must offer them protection. I hope you see that as well, because these are our values. If these people are not eligible for refugee status, return is the only option. That is why they need to be legally well informed so that they are taken out of the network of smugglers and can make a choice. A number of options then emerge from this. I'm going back to the proposal itself.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u104	Mr Dedecker has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u105	Mr President, Mr De Vriendt, your words remain theoretical. I invite you to come with me next week. The governor will be here Tuesday afternoon, and I hope the minister will be there. I hope you'll come too, so you can see the hundreds of people we're talking about here and they're out there. They do not want to apply for asylum and they do not want to go anywhere. They paid money to people smugglers. Those human smugglers are known. They stop trucks there and our legislation simply cannot do anything. We can't even arrest those people. We can't repatriate them either. The police can only give them some coffee and buttercakes, and then release them. That's the law today. Those people don't want to apply for asylum. They come here as lucky seekers to make the crossing to England. There they do not need a passport and disappear in the maquis. That's the problem. You open the crane, so that many more people enter Belgium. They come here at hundreds a day. I invite you to come with me. It's not far from your door.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u106	Mr Dedecker, that's not a problem. I'm always willing to do that. I have already met people myself, and you also know that this group of transmigrants includes people of a nationality with which they are perfectly eligible for a status of war refugee. That's how bad it is. They could be perfectly eligible for protection in our country. However, because they do not know how and where to apply for asylum at all, they do not have the possibility to do so. Those cases also exist. So the image is very nuanced. I would now like to talk about the situation in Italy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u107	Mr De Vriendt, I am also a coastal resident, but in this respect I have been primarily a member of the Foreign Affairs Service. I've been working for the Foreign Affairs Department for seven years. We all know where people end up in Brussels. That's quite often the Maximilian Park. The coincidence is that the Foreign Office is located on the other side of the street. How can you claim that people do not even know where to apply for asylum? Now the DVZ has indeed moved. Like these people don't know that. At that time, the DVZ had not yet moved. Even now they know. Mrs De Block, can you say by heart that those concerned do not know where to apply for asylum in this country? Do you think they don't know where to apply for asylum?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u108	What I do know, Mr Loones, is that when your colleague Theo Francken was in charge of Asylum and Migration people were standing in line to apply for asylum. They wanted to apply for asylum, but then your Secretary of State had the bright idea of introducing quotas and driving people who wanted to apply for asylum out of line, towards the Maximilian Park, with all the nuisance. That too was a nice illustration of the mismanagement by your Secretary of State. Now, as far as Italy is concerned, I have to tell you that Malta's declaration also partly responds to what you have touched. A correction mechanism is provided for. Malta's statement does not say that migrants saved at sea are being sent to other countries anyway. Malta's declaration is particularly realistic because it also takes into account the influx of asylum seekers through other channels. It is also a temporary mechanism, in the hope that we will find a more structural, wider, better solution at European level. It is an important step in the roll-out of the European approach. What everyone agrees on here, I believe, is that only a European response to migration is possible. I'm getting to the bottom of this. At the moment, it is just a political statement. It's not operational yet. Five countries have taken the initiative. About fifteen countries sit around the table to discuss with. Belgium is not yet there. Our question is that Belgium is taking this step effectively, so that it can come to a broad-based solution. The story that only Belgium seeks to connect is not right at all. There are five initiators and ten countries that are already showing interest and are participating in technical working groups. If Malta's statement were to crash, if we didn't have it, what would happen? There would then be a poignant situation, especially in the human field, which would mean that rescue ships with migrants rescued at sea would no longer be able to dock because the pressure on Italy would then be far too great to refuse them. Italy is counting on the solidarity of other countries, and that makes perfect sense. This year, 1,136 people have already drowned in the Mediterranean. That's an immense number. A few weeks ago, there was another NGO ship, the Ocean Viking, which was stuck for two weeks with 213 migrants on board. They couldn't get anywhere to dock. It has asked a lot of discussion to be able to sail to a safe harbour, fortunately not to Libya. They needed a safe haven where these people could enjoy their rights and where they would be protected. In the human field, this was a poignant situation, and Malta's declaration could provide a way out of this, including in the political sphere. The new Italian Government is sticking its necks out and counting on the solidarity of other European countries. It is time not to abandon a country like Italy. We have to show responsibility. So this is a meaningful first step.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u109	Mr De Vriendt, you are talking about the number of deaths in the Mediterranean, people who drowned. You say that Malta's agreement could provide a solution to these precarious situations in the Mediterranean. How can that be a solution? Let me tell you from experience: if people who pay people heavily for smugglers reach their goal, Europe, and especially North-West Europe, they will continue to come. Could you perhaps explain to me how you think that by already spreading and flying into people in North-West Europe, particularly Belgium, one of the absolute attraction poles, it is possible to combat the drowning in the Mediterranean? Can you explain that to me? I really don't see it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u110	What is more, a new investigation has just come out of an objective source, which shows that there have just been more crossing through these rescue operations and that we are going to use increasingly worse and more dangerous boats. If we send the signal that we will continue those taxi trips from the Libyan coast to the European mainland, we will just encourage those smugglers to organise even more dangerous crossings and to make more victims. That's what you're responsible for, not us.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u111	Mr Van Langenhove, I will answer you later. Mr Francken, Malta's statement is interesting because it allows rescue ships to dock in Italy, for example. Without that agreement, there is a risk of a political situation in which the Italian Government, for example, says, as it has done in the past, that these boats cannot dock there, because the Italian Government cannot handle it, even under electoral pressure from the people, who should not know about it. I do not think I need to explain that such a refusal by the Italian Government is particularly problematic in humanitarian terms. Malta's statement can provide an answer to this. Mr Van Langenhove, you are not aware of the figures. Mare Nostrum, do you sound familiar?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u112	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u113	Well, I'll explain it to you. Mare Nostrum was the name of the Italian rescue operation, years ago, on the Mediterranean. Those rescue operations were carried out on a regular basis, were fairly efficient, also public, and had an effect. People were really saved then, unlike the following years. Although there are fewer rescue operations now, more people are trying to cross the Mediterranean than in the time when many rescue operations were still being carried out. The claim that many rescue operations create a suction effect is therefore incorrect, because the figures and statistics contradict that. I suggest you take a closer look at that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u114	Mr Francken wishes to intervene.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u115	Mr De Vriendt, you did not answer my question at all. You say that Italy used to conduct a porte chaise policy, keeping the ports closed. Ships of NGOs full of rescued people, boat migrants, could therefore not dock, which led to difficult humanitarian situations, including hygiene on those boats, indeed problematic. However, in the period during which Italy kept the ports closed, the outflow of boats from Libya has fallen sharply and the number of drownings in the Mediterranean Sea has also fallen very sharply. You don't say that. Again, you are absolutely not answering my question. With the reopening of ports and the introduction of the dispersal plan, giving migrants even more facilities to arrive as soon as possible in the country of their choice, especially North-West European countries, you encourage smugglers to use even worse equipment and work even more three-stars, and you create even more drownings. The study referred to by Mr Van Langenhove does indeed exist. It is true that there are other studies. Those studies contradict each other. I suggest that if the ports are closed, fewer boats leave and fewer people die. If everything is opened up again, there will be just a lot more drowning in the Mediterranean. That's just the incredibly paradoxical thing about the situation. That is terrible, because in the end you want to do good, but the effect of this is that the smugglers go third and inhumane. There are more deaths by trying to do the right thing. Of course, that's terrible. In that sense, I do not get an answer to my question as to how your resolution will lead to fewer drownings. There's no link. That is precisely the painful and difficult issue of the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u116	Mr Francken, the Mediterranean is almost closed. The deterrent has never been as great as today. People are even sent back to Libyan detention camps, where they are abused and abused. We're running out of rescue operations. The NGOs that want to organise rescue operations are made particularly difficult to do so. The deterrent has never been so great and yet people continue to try to cross the Mediterranean, resulting in 1,186 deaths this year alone. The myth that we must avoid the suction effect, that we must still increase the deterrent, that we must not save anyone and that then people will no longer try to cross, is not right at all. The stats are here. Just look at the numbers. I agree with you in part when you say that Malta's declaration will not solve everything, such as European migration policy and the drownings in the Mediterranean. It's gonna take a lot more than that. We just waved someone off to the European Commission. I hope that we will move forward. Malta's declaration does allow rescue ships to dock and the responsibility for the asylum procedure to be spread over as many European countries as possible. It is not only Belgium that is committed to this. Fifteen countries show interest to a greater or lesser extent. In addition, a correction mechanism has been introduced to correct the high asylum flow in some countries. Our country has a tradition of being in the cockpit of the European Union. Soon we will have a European president, Charles Michel. Soon we will have a European Commissioner, Didier Reynders. The Liberal political family in the European Parliament voted in favour of an important resolution, namely a resolution which welcomes the Malta mechanism. European Commissioner Avramopoulos calls on all Member States to join Malta's declaration. Countries such as Belgium, which are committed to European solutions and more European integration, only have to take the first step, with Malta's declaration, in order, hopefully, to come up with even better European solutions at a later stage. I fully understand the concerns of a number of my fellow Members, but I think that Malta's statement responds to that. I am also very sure that after Belgium's participation many other European countries will follow. Fifteen countries are already more or less closely involved in the process.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u117	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it is a clear text that was adopted in the Committee on External Relations before being submitted to you today in plenary. A clear text of the House which, without a doubt, calls on our federal government in current affairs, in the short term, to participate in the mechanism of the declaration of Malta and, in the longer term, to play a pioneering role in the search for solutions for the emergence of a real migration policy at European level, focusing on solidarity and responsibility. Together with Christophe Lacroix, I co-signed this text from our colleagues at Ecolo-Groen because it agrees with the wish already expressed by our group to join this agreement, the first step towards a European migration policy. I have co-signed this text because, when a ship carrying more than 200 physically and morally suffering migrants has to wait for several days for a distribution agreement between various countries before docking, I am not European. When, on the pretext of the Dublin Statute, many of our countries look at Italy, Spain or Greece alone, I am not a European. When the death of more than 2,500 men, women and children in 2018 is trivialized by some, I am not European. When Belgium, the mother of Europe, shows itself to be Eurosceptic, as has been the case for some time, on all migration issues, we are not Europeans. It is time for the Union and its members to accept that Europe must shoulder its responsibilities and build a just, but also responsible, human migration. My group believes that for each Member State there is a need to take responsibility. Some will say or have already said that this resolution is just a drop in the Mediterranean, while others will not hesitate to call us irresponsible and brandish the threat of invasion in order, once again, to surf between populism and popularity. To those who have unfortunately left us, I say "fake news". Mr Franken is probably not interested in my speech, but I suggest that he consider that today is D-Day to stop the misinformation, lies and confidences which, if true, are more than worrying. We will have to pay attention to it, and I hope we will. It is time, Mr Franken, for D-Day to have a factual debate between you and me and why not, Mrs De Block, if you wish, on this issue of migration. We will. I take note of my availability. I'm sure Mrs. De Block's. I'm now waiting for yours, Mr. Franken. It is clear that your management, the management of the N-VA, the singular management of the then Secretary of State or rather the non-management has caused – this is a fact – a delay in the management of asylum files, of 10,000 files, or 6,500 people. Where are these people today? In our reception facilities. This cost in 2020 will be EUR 100 million in view of the delay in the procedure. Of course, it is regrettable, but it is the responsibility of the former Secretary of State. Mr. Franken's mismanagement also led to the suspension of the resettlement program. This programme ensures that the most vulnerable, recognised as refugees in camps outside Europe, are taken care of by our country. This is, of course, regrettable at the human level. For Mr Franken, I would stress that this is regrettable at the financial level since we could be sanctioned by Europe. It's time for this to stop. I'm only a sheep from a small town with 15,000 inhabitants. I have not yet and I may never have the honour and the pride Mr Franken felt to be in the executive of our beautiful Belgian house, but when I make a difficult decision, I take the consequences. I am not content to assume them when they are favorable and they benefit my popularity. There will be no invasion in Belgium. It's all about the wrong thing. Let's go back to serious things! We are aware, my friends – I turn to Ecolo-Groen – that this declaration from Malta is only a step. That is true, but it is an essential and necessary first step to finally move the lines and to start a reform – we are not irresponsible – of the European migration policy which will not abolish Dublin but improve it so that everyone can have a role to play, with a balance between responsibility and solidarity. Solidarity, above all, with those who flee war, famine and the risks to their lives. Solidarity, too, for all the partners of the European Union. A solidarity which, without concession, must, in the long run, be binding on all the Member States of the European Union. It is unacceptable to bring the entire management of migration to the forefront of European countries. By our behaviour, we are guilty of a lie by omission towards them, a pure and simple lie about our real commitment in the Union. To belong to the European Union is to belong to a union where the best is for solidarity. Madam Minister, you abstained from the European Council and said that our government was in the business of day-to-day business. But today we have heard your message and, through our text, we will give you the mandate you need to engage our country through you. Current and non-current affairs, it is more than time to set the stage for a new European migration policy, humane, just and responsible. Colleagues, to conclude, I leave to your reflection the quote of Daniel Cohn-Bendit: "The European Union is not a doormat on which we wipe our feet, but it is a common house that we build together."
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u118	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the new European Commission led by Mrs von der Leyen has just obtained the approval of the European Parliament yesterday in Strasbourg. We now expect a detailed work programme by early February 2020. To address the migration challenge, which has been dividing states for years, the future president announced that a package of migration measures would be presented at the end of the first quarter or the beginning of the second quarter of 2020. I quote: "We must reform our asylum system without ever forgetting our values of solidarity and responsibility. Europe, so proud of its values and the rule of law, must be able to respond both humanely and effectively to the migration issue." That, ladies and gentlemen, is an expression that I am making of myself. It focuses on the importance of our values, but also on an ethics of responsibility. We must be able to welcome these people to our home, whether they want to live at home or simply transit through our country. But given our rule of law, our procedures must be respected by all. We must also help our Mediterranean partners in the European Union, who receive these people first on their soil. A fair distribution of effort must be the basis of our intra-European solidarity. I hear a few counter-truths here. We will follow the evolution of this debate in 2020. Let's not make it an internal debate! This is a debate that goes beyond our borders. These Malta proposals will be on the table, like many others. This is one of the elements of the spring 2020 discussion. We trust the Commission to reach a balanced agreement. Contrary to what I hear, we support and trust our Minister De Block to reach a balanced agreement in the spring. That is the meaning of our amendment. To be clear, I read this word for word: "Insert our accession to the Malta Agreement within a broader package including a reform of the Dublin rules based on a balance between responsibility and solidarity." Today, ladies and gentlemen, Malta's proposal is a strong political gesture towards the new Italian government. It is by no means a definitive solution to the migration challenge facing each country of the Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u119	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are voting on the motion for a resolution which provides a solution to the abuses that we have seen all too often in the Mediterranean over the last few months: boats with refugees and migrants who have been floating around for days, even for weeks, without having to moor anywhere, in order to finally be able to land. [[Rumur on the benches]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u120	Colleagues, may I ask you to pay attention and respect for the speaker?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u121	We do not want to play such a political game on behalf of people. To try to avoid such situations, a solution has been developed at the initiative of two major EU countries, Germany and France. These countries concluded an agreement with Italy and Malta, so that ports would no longer be closed. In return, they committed themselves to taking over half of the people coming ashore and allowing them to go through an asylum procedure. Through the motion for a resolution, we also want Belgium to make a modest contribution. Ladies and gentlemen, I have not heard that here, it is clearly not a treaty, it is a declaration of intent. That's a big difference. It is a declaration of intent, in which each participating Member State commits itself, but at any time it can freely decide whether to take over asylum seekers from Italy or Malta and how many they take over. If circumstances do not permit, Belgium does not have to do anything. Nor will all those boat refugees be allowed to stay anyway. They must go through an asylum procedure and if it turns out that they are not refugees, they will have to return to the country of origin. We believe it is important to support the motion for a resolution, first of all to avoid, as has already been said, that boats wander around purposelessly with refugees for weeks, which are always allowed to land. So it is not true that more people in Europe are now setting foot on the ground. The agreement simply ensures that they do not first float around for many days or weeks or, worse, drown. The latter remains crucial to us. By the way, the crisis at sea also caused a lot of uncertainty in the shipping companies. They also pay a high price for this. Ladies and gentlemen, the reason why we are discussing this today is more fundamental: we absolutely need a stronger and common European migration policy. All European Member States are faced with the problem of migration and no Member State can deal with the problem on its own. Even though steps have been taken in recent years, including the installation of a strong coastguard, which strengthens the external borders, the debate on some points is blocked. The most important thing is that of the Dublin system, which determines which Member State is responsible for an asylum seeker. We've heard it here before. We can indeed wait and hide behind discussions. If we really want to move forward and want a strong solution for the future that everyone is getting better, we must dare to think out of the box.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u122	Mr Demon, you explain that we do not have to worry, because migrants still have to go through an asylum procedure and because we will also tell those whose application is rejected. However, will you honestly tell your constituents that we in Belgium are not able to actually identify more than one in ten migrants who have been expelled from the country, illegal migrants or asylum seekers who have not received a positive response? Will you honestly admit that to your constituents?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u123	Mr Van Langenhove, why can't they come back? That is because there are no agreements with the countries of origin. Mr Van Langenhove, you must not throw everything into a pile. You have to be honest: you prefer to let those people float around. We say that we see an incentive in this. We will examine whether or not the refugees should receive asylum through the system. Moreover, the majority parties have tried several times to get as many asylum seekers as possible to return. You are right, however, that the great pain is the return. We have to work on that, too. However, I do not think that this is an excuse for people to float around in boats.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u124	Mr Demon, no one in the hemisphere has ever said that we should not save people at sea. The discussion is about where we're taking these people. Some of us are convinced that we need to take them back to North Africa, and some of you seem to be part of it, too, is convinced that we need to take them to the European continent. However, you must be honest: you say that we will point out the rejected asylum seekers to their country of origin, but we simply do not succeed in sending them back. Then don't say we'll tell them, if that just becomes impossible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u125	Mr Demon, you are referring to the strong European investments in border surveillance for a strong border and coast guard. You will undoubtedly refer to the 10,000 people who will be recruited for Frontex. Former MEP for CD&V Ivo Belet mentioned in an interview with De Standaard of 20 March 2017 the operation in which people are rescued at sea and then brings them to the European mainland, actually a ferry service. He is not talking about extra protection of European borders, but rather about rescue operations as a ferry service. He admits it's a tough word, but he says it is. Does it mean that you are questioning the words of your colleague or have there been other insights?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u126	Let it be clear that we are all saying the same thing: we are not just letting people float around, but we are trying to help people. We want to strengthen the European system by reaching out and hope that there will be a follow-up to the Dublin agreements. Some of them sit down and don't act. We'll act if there's capacity, if we can. And I'm not talking about today. By the way, let us not exaggerate as if we have to deal with the biggest asylum crisis ever. Anyway, if it's possible, we'll allow a few. Don't exaggerate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u127	My question is very simple. The mandate of Frontex has not changed. Before, Ivo Belet called Frontex' rescue operations a ferry service. Do you still think it's about a ferry service, like Ivo Belet, or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u128	We say clearly that we agree to bring some people to us via the ships. That is why we shall be voting in favour of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u129	Frankly, it is probably all well-meant, but I think you are very naive that, after all these years of difficult negotiations, we will one day bring in the Dublin II reforms, if we go along with a dispersal plan. That's not how it works. If we admit on all its points, we will never again reach the difficult point for the border states. That's from a naivety I'm not used to from you. What is more, you must explain to me why we would bring people from Italy to Belgium, while Italy has far fewer asylum applications? You say that we must tackle it at European level and that it is difficult for us to let the boats roam. I think you should tell the Italian colleagues, Mr Conte, a reasonable man, perhaps a little more reasonable than Mr Salvini, that the Italians should open their ports and register the boat refugees in their asylum system. If they do so and then have about the same number of applications per thousand inhabitants, let us remain intellectually honest; I am addressing Mr De Vriendt, then we will help, but not before. I disagree with your reasoning, but I understand them. If I go through them, I think you should table an amendment to the motion for a resolution to ensure that the mechanism does not enter into force until there is an imbalance to the detriment of Italy, for example. Then we will do our best, but as long as there are so many refugees here seeking asylum, it is not reasonable for us to have to fly in further. It's not like that. I understand you're saying you'll help the Italians. You can do that, and you may need to do that, because European solidarity is important, but only if the influx here is less and everything is under control again. That is only a question of good governance and common sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u130	First of all, you call me naive. Let's be clear, we've always said that we're choosing dispersion. That's how it was in our election program. So you cannot claim that we would now agree to a spread for the first time. We were always in favour of that. Secondly, we think differently about the subject than you do and we say it too. We want to reach out and perhaps we should do a little more in our country. In fact, we want to try to untie something here by means of an agreement, a declaration of intent, not a treaty. We want to try to think out of the box with some countries and we hope that we can make all the problems of the Dublin system negotiable. By sitting in the seat, there can be no solution. That's probably the difference between you and me.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u131	Mr President, the impression is given here that we are not putting our hands out. Mr Francken has just referred to it, we really need not be ashamed of the number of asylum seekers per thousand inhabitants. In this respect, we are already doing more than our share today. We do not need a dispersal plan for this; people are already walking here. However, I would also like to mention the amounts we give to the border countries of the European Union: Greece EUR 2.2 billion, Italy EUR 1 billion, Spain EUR 800 million. Those are our tax dollars, too. I would like to put these sums at ease in addition to the amounts we get, while we receive more asylum seekers per thousand inhabitants than those countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u132	Mr Loones, the Dublin system has been discussed here for five years and we have looked at each other. Is it awesome, then, that this Parliament is saying that it is reaching first hand? I do not think that is a great idea, and I hope that we can find a solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u133	Mr. Demon, you're from Bruges. Two months ago, 39 Vietnamese were passed in Bruges in a container. I wonder, then, whether we are not responsible for a piece of this. I'm saying that because you're talking about reaching out over the hand, bringing in more people to do a spread. We have an abundance that we are not masters. You're off the coast yourself. You know the problem of the transmigrants. Because we are not masters of that abundance, people die in refrigerators, because we cannot control them all. People don't want to control it either. In Zeebrugge there is an x-ray of 2 million euros, which controls 140 cars a day. In Calais there are 140 guards, in Bruges 1. We have a heart rate monitor to get into the trucks, which lifts when the tram passes. We have a CO2 meter where we need an hour to check one truck. I hear a lot about humanity here. I think it's the opposite now. We're inhumane. We are inhumane when we open the crane. You can say in a fantastic Christian way that you want to reach out, but you can also get the hand against your head. I'm having trouble with it because there's no alternative to repatriation. I also said it to Mr De Vriendt a moment ago, it is very easy. Why doesn't anyone want to perform? We cannot act because there is no additional legislation. There should be additional legislation so that we can pick up and repatriate people. But we can't. Even the police are tired of doing this. That is why I say: you are from Zeebrugge, take responsibility. I say it even more clearly: we are responsible for the smuggling of human beings. Those human smugglers know the loopholes of the net. Then we'll do the ferry service even more work and then we'll get more victims in the long run. That's my human view of the case. Chairperson: Patrick Dewael, Chair. President: Patrick Dewael, Chairman.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u134	Firstly, let us be clear and I am also looking at the colleagues from the N-VA. Isn't it true that you are still in favour of the Dublin agreement as a whole? That means that you are also in favour of spreading if an agreement is reached in those 18 months. We reach out to be able to do it faster. Or am I being naive and you guys playing a show here? I'm looking at Mrs. De Block and the friends of the N-VA. It has always been said to support the Dublin Agreement and to implement it. We are reaching out here instead of sitting in the seat. Secondly, we should have more agreements with various countries to bring those people back. In order to make the resolution even clearer, we have tabled an amendment aimed at stepping up action against trafficking in human beings. There should be no discussion about this. In the whole of the problem, we must be tough on the smugglers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u135	Mr. Demon, I wonder which planet you live on? On May 26th of this year you woke up, because Flanders had pierced the bubble. It was a black and yellow Sunday and not a green tsunami, as predicted. It was another black day for the people who predict election results with glass bulbs. The first reaction of you and your party colleagues and very politically correct Flanders was: "The electorate has sent a signal. Now we have to listen. We have to listen to the voter. Now we have finally understood." Then you come up with a proposal, in which you say that there are not enough migrants yet, not enough illegals, not enough victims. The funny thing is that in 2024 you will startle again when your bubble is punctured again. CD&V claims to be in the middle of people. I wonder where the support for what you are proposing here is. I can promise you that there is no support for this in Flanders. I will say it in the language of colleagues on the other side: in Flanders, on a déjà donné.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u136	One more small reaction to that. We believe in solutions. We believe that the Dublin Agreement can provide the solution. We are reaching out to those other countries here to see how we can achieve it effectively. That's the difference. It is important that we do not lose sight of the broad discussion. That is why CD&V has had some amendments added to this resolution. It is now in writing that a broader European solution needs to be worked on. This solution must be based on two principles: the duty of the Member States to assume their responsibilities and the need for solidarity between the Member States for and with the people on the run. We can also try to conclude agreements with countries outside Europe, as we already have an agreement with Turkey. In addition, CD&V has added that the fight against trafficking in human beings must not be weakened at all. For all these reasons, therefore, we want to support this resolution. Doing nothing is always the easiest thing to do, but if we really want to have a strong common policy within Europe and with Europe, we must go beyond the delusion of the day and we must now talk and conclude agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a criticism of Mr Flahaut who replaced me, but when I left I asked if we could limit speaking time to five minutes per group and everyone said yes. I've been away for one hour and twenty minutes and I find that five people have taken the floor. There are four other resolutions. At this rate, we are voting about twelve or one hour tonight. The Chamber shall provide proof of efficiency in the manner of meetings. We believe that all this contributes to a good debate. I am not expressing my opinion on the previous debate, which will probably have been good, but I would nevertheless point out to you a number of elements of timing. After all, you have come to ask me whether it is really not possible for the sitting to end within a reasonable period of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u138	Mr President, I will try to be reasonable. My speech will be brief; therefore I will make it from my bench. I just wanted to point out that the PTB voted in favour of this motion for a resolution in committee. I confirm that we will also vote in plenary, in particular because this motion for a resolution calls for a more equitable distribution of migrants within the European Union. I believe that the solution requires collective reflection in Europe, and not limited to each country "in its own corner". It is also a resolution that encourages humane responses to problems. I recall that the people we are talking about today are still human beings. I think our attitude must be up to the situation. We are always trying to escape our responsibilities as to the causes of this migration, and our responsibility in the situation of the countries from which these migrants originate. Today, let us try to be responsible for the consequences of this migration crisis. I just wanted to make that little reminder. However, I also wanted to express some reservations about this resolution. The Treaty which it calls for voting formalizes in some way the outsourcing of European borders. It foresees that the countries of the European Union will cooperate and share information with the Libyan Coast Guard. It therefore recognizes this institution as a legitimate interlocutor. However, this institution is heavily criticized for its failure to respect human rights. I don't know if we're going in the right direction by dealing with them. I wanted to express this reservation. In addition to the additional constraints on NGO vessels, the treaty that the resolution calls for voting calls on rescued refugees to make binding declarations about the country of their preference, even before they can land. A difficult and binding choice is imposed on traumatized people in distress. Here too, the human factor is to be taken into account and I wanted to remind you. These are a number of new and disturbing elements which are introduced by this Treaty and which we wanted to highlight today. However, because this motion for a resolution promotes a more united vision and a more equitable distribution among European countries, we will vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u139	Congratulations, dear colleague, on having respected your speaking time!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u140	Mr President, the time I need to get from my couch to the chair doesn't count for speaking time, does it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u141	No, your speaking time will now begin. I'm not that strict.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u142	Mr President, much has already been said, but I would like to explain the position of our group. First of all, I would like to stress that we very much believe in the good intentions of the proposers. For us too, migration is a very burning theme. Certainly the difficult situation of the boat refugees is proof of a failing European policy. We are awake from this as politicians and representatives of the people, but the population is also awake from the whole problem of migration. Well, we are faced with a very fragile public support for the even more inclusion of migrants and asylum seekers. Whether we like it or not, it's a given. We had already heard that the voter gave a clear signal. Our group wants to find positive solutions. We are in favour of European cooperation on asylum and migration. But you already felt a nuance coming. We don't believe in patch remedies. That is why we are not in favour of the resolution now before us. We have three very good reasons for doing so. Firstly, all Member States must make a similar contribution. It is not true that a limited number of countries are making more efforts because the other countries say foert and do not participate. It's a bit like a family where the kids don't clean up their toys and where the little sister takes care of the tidying up of the big ones. We refuse to participate. We understand that Belgium has reached the saturation threshold in terms of reception, we are now at a rate of 97%. We are doing more than our share of the work. The lead time is now 18 months. If there are still people joining us now, where are we supposed to put them? At present they end up in the Maximilian park or, as Mr Dedecker says, in the car parks along the motorways to the coast. So that's not a solution. That is the biggest problem for us. Suppose we join in this resolution, then we simply cannot achieve it because we do not have enough places. We're gonna make a commitment that we won't be able to fill in. This is not so positive for the credibility of Belgium. The third point is that we have a government in current affairs. After all, it could be said that we simply need to create some extra places quickly. The current cases do not allow this, however, because they are limited in their actions. It is also not clear in this resolution how this could be implemented in current cases. We have just heard that this is a small step in the right direction. That's not what we're going for. We want to sit around the table with the whole of the EU, with all the Member States, in order to force a very structural reform and a common asylum policy. If we agreed to this resolution, we would reduce our impact there. Again, we do not question the good intentions of the proposers. However, I have clarified why we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u143	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, 1,636 are the number of migrants who died at sea in 2019. I think that's the only data that matters today! As was said, migration is an extremely complex subject. Every time we approach her here since the beginning of Parliament by the little bit of the lorgnette, he comes back. We've been doing the last four, five years again. Everything comes up: the reception policy, the policy of remoteness... But no! This is not what we are talking about today. It's just one thing, to know if you're involved in a mechanism that has only one ambition, show more solidarity and try to save lives. It is not a question of rewriting Dublin. Everyone here agrees that the Dublin Regulation is no longer working. The whole mode recognizes that a solution that is based both on the principle of the first country and on a solidarity mechanism will be needed. So, what's the problem? I do not think it is a question of giving a bad signal or of conditioning or weakening a position during the negotiations. It is a matter of joining countries that pose a courageous act. This is a temporary mechanism. It is a "false better" mechanism and has its full meaning, especially in view of the difficult and very dangerous situation in Libya. I think it makes sense for Belgium to join. I understand that parties like the MR and the CD&V join. Indeed, if there was only one reason to vote on this resolution, it would be because it is the only unilateral text that we have today, which sends a single signal, namely that it is not currently possible to resolve migration issues alone. The text is not perfect, but it has the merit of sending a clear signal, identical to that sent by this Parliament when it decided to vote on a resolution in favour of the United Nations Global Compact on Migration. I hope that we will now follow the same direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u144	Meanwhile, Mrs. Matz has arrived. Yes, Mr. Francken?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u145	Mr President, Mr De Smet, the same question here too. You start with the number of people who died in the Mediterranean last year. That is a figure that is being given, and that is the only thing that we really need to worry about, those are the deaths in the Mediterranean. These drownings are something that we as democrats, as people, as Europeans cannot tolerate. I agree with you. But again, I repeat my question. I have not yet received an answer from any of the Members who have taken the floor and who have defended that resolution with great enthusiasm. How will this resolution, with the measures it calls for and entrusts to Mrs De Block, help to reduce the number of deaths in the Mediterranean? That is a very clear question, which I have made clear on several occasions, but I have not yet received an answer, in any way. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u146	You have not replied at all, you have answered quite apart from the question. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u147	My answer is my resolution. My amendment, which I hope you have read once, is my answer. You might want to read one of my books. Mr De Smet, my question is how you think this resolution will lead to less drowning in the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u148	Mr Francken, I do not know whether Mr De Smet wants to go into this, but we can continue to exhaust the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u149	Mr President, the essence of the problem is the definition of what is called a call for air. In my opinion, the air call is not the presence of NGO ships or not. The only call for air is to have Europe, on the one hand, with relatively stable conditions of peace and prosperity and, on the other, countries and a continent – Africa – where the situation is difficult. It is the difference in the conditions between the North and the South that, in my opinion, there will always be a form of migration, either legal or illegal, with people boarding boats, paying smugglers or trying to achieve their goal alone. Of course, this does not prevent the fight against human traffickers; we all agree on this point. We should even do a lot more. But what do we do for those who try despite all their luck, who ride in pneumatic boats, who sometimes bought fake lifejackets from traffickers? There are no 36 solutions. It is quite possible to fight human traffickers and to say that, for those who will try to cross, there must be a distribution mechanism so that there is solidarity between the countries when these people arrive in one of the Mediterranean countries of Europe. One doesn't prevent the other. In my opinion, the only air call is the difference between the North and the South, it is not the humanitarian means that are put in place to try to save people's lives.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u150	Mr President, my group is pleased that this debate can take place in this House. In fact, we had tabled a relatively similar text. The important thing, as I said in committee, is that a text is passed and that the government can be given a mandate to conclude this agreement. I could not simply hear that, first, the government was in day-to-day business and abstained for that reason at the European Council and, second, that the reason was that the host network was saturated. It's the snake that bites its tail: the network is saturated due to decisions made before Ms. De Block is appointed to this position and the network saturation is used to justify that no one can be accommodated. We are pleased that this text can be adopted today and that the minister has a clear mandate to sign this agreement. The proposal by Mr. De Vriendt has received a number of amendments which have expanded his remarks, thereby joining our text. These include the development of a common asylum policy, the reform of the Dublin Regulation and the importance of combating trafficking in human beings. From now on, we hope that Belgium will be part of a proactive approach to the distribution of migrants. However, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that neither the saturation of the network nor the current business period will be an obstacle to this text. I thank all the colleagues who have worked on this agreement, which is very important to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u151	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u152	· 8 – Darya Safai cs (493/8)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u153	The vote on the reserved amendment and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the amendment retained and on the whole of the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u154	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Els Van Hoof.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u155	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85 4) (692.4) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85.4) (692/4) The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u156	Thank you, Mr President, I refer to my written report even though the debate in committee was exciting.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u157	Mrs de Laveleye, as a speaker for the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, you were entered on the list of speakers in the general discussion. I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u158	Mr. President, our country, like many others and those of the OECD in general, is committed to meeting the target of 0.7 per cent of gross national income (GNI) in the context of the United Nations 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. However, since 2010, development aid has become one of our governments' main fiscal adjustment variables. We were at 0.6% of GNI in 2010 and we are only 0.44% in 2018. This is a figure that is historically low. When we talk about 0.44% of GNI in 2018, this covers a whole series of costs that are qualified as ghost aid and therefore do not directly benefit the countries of the South. It is always worth recalling that Belgium, because of this phantom aid, is the first country to receive its own aid! That said, 0.44%, ghost aid or not, is still very insufficient in relation to our commitments. We also all too often hear that the quantity does not make the quality of the aid. Yes, but quantity is a necessary condition for its effectiveness. It is well known that the effectiveness of official development assistance drives us all and that this is what we must look for in our various levers of official aid, whether multilateral, bilateral or indirect bilateral, with the support of NGOs in particular. However, without the necessary amounts, there can be no efficiency. Indeed, only sufficient and stable aid can contribute effectively to sustainable development. That is why we will resolutely support this resolution!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u159	Mr President, the N-VA Group will abstain from voting on this resolution. I would stress that the N-VA remains behind the target of 0,7%. We also included this in the Flemish coalition agreement. However, this resolution proposes a growth path towards 2030. This resolution therefore calls for a long-term policy, a vision. This is not at all in line with the mandate of a government in current affairs, which we call a mini-government. The government in current affairs has no mandate to formulate a long-term policy for the next governments. The resolution has a pretty big impact. We are not just looking at development cooperation; climate initiatives are also being taken out of the budget. The financial impact, which will be decided today, applies to the next government and even to the subsequent government. We agree with the principle, but we cannot have a long-term vision in the current context of current affairs. The long-term vision should be included in the government negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u160	Mr President, I will give a brief explanation of our voting behaviour or our view of the proposal before us. As a social and national party, we have always been in favour of solidarity with peoples in difficult circumstances. That is a general view that our party puts first. We do, of course, believe that financing should primarily promote self-reliance. However, in view of the increasing poverty that we can experience in our own country and the limited budgetary framework, we are always forced to make choices in the current situation. In this respect, we see the proposal before us as not a realistic proposal. When we see what financial implications it would have for our budgetary situation, we should rather focus on refocusing our country's development cooperation. We have set out a number of criteria in this respect, which I have also explained in committee. Among other things, this is a reorientation of the resources for development cooperation to the countries of origin of the immigrants present in our country. More specifically, we believe that development aid should be made conditional on the willingness to take back the asylum seekers and illegal immigrants who have been detained. Countries that do not want to take their citizens back cannot claim development aid for us. As I said in committee, our country is one of the most generous countries in terms of development aid resources. In addition, in our opinion, the unclear division of competence between the Flemish or Community level and the federal level is a brake on an efficient development policy. All these factors form our vision of this. We note that the elements we are putting forward here have not been sufficiently taken into account when submitting this proposal. We need to focus our arrows more towards a reorientation rather than pinning ourselves on the 0.7% fetish, which is a general preposition. For the Flemish Interest Group, we should rather think about a targeted and target group policy in this area. We will therefore not approve the proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u161	Mr President, I will be brief. Our group supported the motion for a resolution in committee. We'll still support her here. Of course, we are in a particular political situation, but we will support this text because it is an important signal that will be sent to those who will have to negotiate the formation of a government. The aim is to highlight the essential role of international partnership, such as that of defence and diplomacy, in terms of development. In recent years, we have not met the 0.7 per cent target, which must be pursued — certainly, taking into account budgetary difficulties. In giving this signal, Parliament expresses our willingness to continue efforts to achieve this goal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u162	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the standard of 0,7% is almost fifty years old and we still have no reason to celebrate. In the beginning of the century we were in a positive vibe. Then we reached an unprecedented level for development cooperation. In total, the developed countries spent $129 billion on this. In Belgium, too, it was good at the time. Under the Leterme government, we also spent 0.64% of GNI in 2010. However, the financial and economic crisis blew away and not only in Belgium: in other OECD DAC countries, too, expenditure on development cooperation fell. That does not mean that we are today the worst student in the class; we are ninth in development cooperation for OECD-DAC. We're still above average, but we're going down. We have to prevent that, because there is another way. Let me give some examples, ladies and gentlemen. Other countries prove that it is possible: Sweden at 1.04 % of GNI, Luxembourg at 0.98 %, Norway at 0.94 %, Denmark at 0.72 % and the United Kingdom at 0.7 %. In these countries too, there has been or has been a financial and economic crisis, but they still manage to maintain their development cooperation. Belgium should also be able to do so, just like the Netherlands and France, which decided at the time to move away from the 0,7% standard in order to put the standard back on the table as an important one today. They find people's capacity for this and see that the funds invested clearly have an impact and are making a sound profit. Indeed, such a policy is profitable. The evidence will be provided on the basis of the Millennium Development Goals from 2000 to 2015. By investing in the achievement of these Millennium Goals, child mortality and maternal mortality declined globally. Let me give just one example. In 1990, half of the world's population lived below the poverty line of $ 1.25 a day. In 2015, this percentage fell to about 14%. Aid helps and we must invest in it, because there are 850 million people still living in extreme poverty, especially in Sub-Saharan Africa. So the battle has not yet been fought. I admit, official development cooperation (ODA) is not the only tool that helps. There are other means. For example, the ODA accounted for 70% of the total amount of money going to developing countries in 1970. Today that is barely 12%. Much of the funds come from the private sector and come from remittances, money sent by migrants to their families in those countries. But that does not mean that we must let go of development cooperation. For us, it is still an important fact that we are setting the right example. We're for the en-en-story. In order to achieve the sustainable development goals worldwide, the SDGs that we all know and that we use in our local governments, we clearly need $5,000 billion. If we spend 0,7% of GNI on development cooperation, we will only reach one fifteenth of that amount. So it's clearly an en-en-story. The Belgian government must also set a good example. We cannot docherrypicking for the development objectives. These targets clearly state that we must reach 0,7% by 2030. The European Council also supported this in 2015. It's a formal stick behind the door. I believe that we must fulfil our international obligations. We should not just sign them and then wait and see what comes of them. We must take that objective seriously, bearing in mind the previous debate. We must also make this budgetary effort from an ethical point of view. We cannot accept that every day children die of hunger, that women die of childbirth, that sick die of lack of medication and that people have to migrate as a result of hunger, poverty and global warming. That is why we must invest in development cooperation. It is not only a budgetary obligation but also our moral duty to ensure that fragile countries can see development cooperation as a beacon of progress for their own country. It has been suggested here that we cannot release that money now. But we have signed that international obligation. The previous government also committed itself to this, as did the governments before it. I think it is important that we, whether there is a full government or a government in current affairs, try to make that international commitment work. We would also recommend to the upcoming government negotiators to register that objective. Parliament must support this. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not asking for anything that is budgetaryly impossible: we are setting out a growth path until 2030. We do not need to achieve our goal tomorrow or next year; we do want to reverse the downward trend towards an increase of 0.7 percent by 2030, and we must do so together with the Regions, which in turn invest in development cooperation with local authorities. After all, all of this is taken into account. It can also happen very easily. Each year, the budget allocated to development cooperation is not fully used. If we are already starting to spend the full budget, that would be a step forward. It is specific to development cooperation that money is not spent because it is fragile countries and there are start-up procedures. Projects are often also frozen for human rights violations or lack of democratic governance. Then there remains the possibility to redirect this money to other projects, partner countries or actors. For example, in the previous legislature, we shifted EUR 25 million from bilateral projects to NGOs for Congo. It's gotta be possible. We also think it is important that the money is spent on non-governmental actors, because they are in direct contact with their partners on the ground and can ensure that the money is well spent. All these elements are reflected in the motion for a resolution. We also think it is important that other posts should not be at the expense of development cooperation, not even climate financing. In this way, we will never achieve the proportion of 0,7%, which our group considers to be particularly important. I am aware that development cooperation is not a panacea and that many other resources need to be released. However, it has clearly proved its usefulness. There is an impact study by the United Nations which clearly shows that development cooperation is profitable. Annual aid of USD 25 per person over the period 1970 to 2007 has led to a fall in poverty of 6.5 %, an increase in investment of 1.5 % and a higher life expectancy and educational attainment. That is why we must believe in the 0,7% standard. This is a factor of stability that can break the negative spiral of poverty, conflict and forced migration. We very much welcome the majority in favour of the motion for a resolution today. We are sending out the message that we think solidarity with the South is important and that we do not want to waste words on it, but expect concrete budgetary efforts for the future. I would like to thank all my fellow Members who support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u163	Colleagues, already in 1970, the United Nations had established that each country should devote 0.7 per cent of its GNI to development cooperation. Our country has taken on the responsibility of supporting the countries of the South, not only because our international commitments force us to do so, but also so that these countries can develop, become independent and seek to ensure prosperity for their citizens. This resolution is therefore in the right direction and can count on the support of the PTB. We will vote in favour, but let me make a few remarks. This resolution is presented by the CD&V, which was also a member of the federal government of Di Rupo in 2011, as well as the Michel government in 2014. Expenditure on development cooperation decreased during the legislature of those Governments and then stagnated at about the same level. As stated by the CNCD and 11.11.11, last June development aid increased until 2010, but then decreased by 30% until 2017. We hope that the CD&V and all parties that will also vote for this proposal will be consistent in the future and ensure that this 0.7% becomes a reality. It is to be hoped that self-criticism and questioning have taken place, that these parties now consider it a mistake to reduce this budget, and that we must now take the opposite direction. That would be a very good thing. However, I have also learned that, a few weeks ago, a resolution was discussed and voted on in the Climate Committee. The resolution proposed to double Belgium's participation in the International Green Fund. The PTB has tabled an amendment to this resolution to ensure that this measure is not taken to the detriment of development cooperation. The left voted in favour of this amendment and the right voted against it. So far, nothing unusual. There was still an arbitration to be done. The CD&V voted against the amendment. The aim of this amendment was to ensure that the development cooperation budget was not allocated to double Belgium's participation in the International Green Fund. I don't understand that contradiction. On the one hand, there is a resolution to go towards 0.7% of GNI and on the other hand, there is a vote against an amendment that allowed maximum guarantees for this fund. Another element is that in this resolution we are talking about 2030. But 2030 is far away. That would mean that we would not reach our goal until 60 years after it was set by the United Nations. In reality, we believe that this ambition should be realized much more quickly. Developing countries must be able to move forward as quickly as possible and work on an equal footing with Belgium and other countries. In 2017, 821 million people suffered from hunger. This figure, according to FAO, is again on the rise. One in ten people live below the absolute poverty line of $0.9 a day. This is not just a social emergency. It is also of a climatic nature. Sustainable technologies, sustainable agriculture and the production of green energy are challenges that developing countries face and that need to be addressed very urgently. Of course, our country will not solve all these problems for them. But since much of our wealth has been produced and continues to be produced by exploiting these countries, allocating these 0.7% of GNI to development cooperation as soon as possible is just justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u164	Mr President, I understand that the resolution before us is not a new one and that it has already been discussed in the previous legislature. We are particularly pleased to note that CD&V is not so opposed to the search for change majorities, as we sometimes thought. Congratulations. I come to the heart of the matter. The 0.7 % standard is indeed the agreed ambition and in itself we are not against it at all, quite the contrary. If there is a group that thinks solidarity is important, it is ours. For us, however, it is not so much the question of how much we give, but what the impact is. What do we do with the money? What is the effect of our actions? What results do we get?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u165	Mrs Liekens, Mrs Van Hoof would like to interrupt you for a moment. It's supposed to be in a debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u166	I'm responding to what you're saying about exchange rates. Solidarity with the South is also an excellent ethical issue, not letting children and mothers die in childbirth. We regret that we have not received your support. In the previous legislature it did go in that direction, so I wonder why you changed your mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u167	Mrs. Van Hoof, I'm just going to explain that to you. For us, it is not so much a question of how much we care about, but of how this money is spent, in particular what its effect and results are, how many children we can save, how much maternal mortality is falling, how much poverty is falling. Belgium is the second most efficient country in terms of development cooperation expenditure. That's what the Overseas Development Institute says, an independent institute. So we are using the money very efficiently, and that is precisely the essence of the policy we stand for. We work in risky, vulnerable countries and sometimes it is impossible to spend the budgets. I was not present in committee during the vote on this resolution because, as you know, I was present at the Cairo Summit in Nairobi. One of our projects, SheDecides, of which Minister De Croo is one of the pioneers, was very well explained there. That is a very critical and difficult subject. It is about giving women and girls the opportunity to choose for themselves whether to have children, when to take them, with what distribution and with what partner. These are very critical issues which do not receive much applause in all countries. They are sometimes very controversial, but they are the essence of good and sustainable development aid. All these other SDGs, sustainable development goals, follow when girls and women have access to modern contraceptives. This automatically reduces child mortality, maternal mortality and poverty, and increases the level of education. Everything follows from that, but once again, these are difficult and critical issues and they are not received everywhere with open arms. We have the feeling that this resolution, by simply saying that it should reach 0,7%, is the basis of a successful policy. That is why the group abstained in committee and why we decided to retable our amendments so that we can express this solidarity not only in money, but above all in results. That is what we are talking about in the end: what do we do for the people, for the most vulnerable, for whom it is most needed?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u168	Mr President, Mrs Van Hoof, thank you for your comprehensive speech. Our group supports this, of course. I could be very brief, but there is something that still needs to be said. The colleague of the PTB has already referred to it. Not so long ago we discussed the Green Climate Fund here. There was then a resolution by the MR, who wanted to support the Prime Minister, because he had used rather big words in New York. We had a long discussion at the time. Some felt that it was extremely important that the word 'budget neutral' was added by means of an amendment. A great deal of discussion has been held in committee on this subject. Some of them were very clear. The chairman of the committee said that it is quite logical that this money comes from the pot of development cooperation, so it is simply a shift. We absolutely wanted to avoid that, we did not want to have any discussion about it. I read today in the resolution that international climate funding and its additional resources must be released without weighing up the development budget. With the votes of your group at the time, we had already clarified the Green Climate Fund today and we had been a little closer to 0,7%. It's done, and what's done is done. I am particularly pleased that you are looking at it differently now. We're all in favour of it. We are aiming for that 0,7%. Mrs Liekens, of course you are right, a percentage is just a number and the question is what is behind that number. It is incredibly important that this money be used properly. However, if we increase the budget, we are more likely to have more money well spent. That makes sense to me. In the meantime, I have also taken note of your amendments. I would like to say the following. Surely there has been a problem of underutilisation. There have been quite a few funds that were simply not used, despite the fact that they were budgeted. When I talk to people from the sector, it turns out that it is one of the biggest frustrations, not so much the budget, but the fact that some funds were simply not used. That is why we will not be supporting your amendments. After all, we feel that this problem is being pushed a little away.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u169	Mr President, I would like to respond to what Mrs Liekens said. I absolutely support SheDecides' projects. I think there should be more resources. That is why I am in favour of the 0,7%. We must also put an end to the under-utilisation of the budget for development cooperation, so that we can advance women's rights in the world. Cooking costs money. Development cooperation helps. Help! Help! Help! Many studies have shown this. We sign international commitments with this government, with the previous government and before that. We're not gonna live up to it. I don't think this is possible. We can't do cherrypicking. We must also provide resources, in addition to good quality development cooperation. I thought it was a good point of this government to pay attention to women's rights. That is why it is important that we invest. With regard to climate finance, it is a good point that we should make it clear in this resolution that we believe, in the context of development cooperation, that climate efforts should be made, but that additional efforts should also be made in the framework of the Paris agreements.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u170	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u171	· 5 – Goedele Liekens (692/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u172	• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 6 "Goedele Liekkens" (692.5) Demand 5 · 7 – Goedele Liekens (692/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u173	The vote on the amendments Arrested. The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u174	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur for this draft is Mr Björn Anseuw. He's not here. He shall refer to his written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u175	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u176	I don't think we should suspend, Mr Crombez. If the rapporteur is not present, I assume he will refer to his written report. Given the advanced hour, you won't blame me for that deduction. I see that Mrs Taquin has been registered for the general discussion. Mrs Taquin asked for the floor, but she was not present. We're not gonna suspend. I'm deducing from the fact that she's absent... she's coming? Then we'll wait. You will see that we are now achieving a higher rhythm than an hour ago. I am doing my best to be for your sake, Mrs Van Peel. However, it is one of your group colleagues who has spoken for a long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u177	Does the MR Group Leader agree to continue our work? Thank you very much. Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u178	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (621/1) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (621/1) The bill has two articles. The draft law has two articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u179	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u180	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Vanessa Matz.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u181	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85 4) (443/1) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85.4) (443/1) The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u182	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u183	Mrs Thibaut and Mrs Chanson are registered for the Ecolo-Groen group.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u184	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Ecolo-Groen joins in this resolution, which aims to enable the federal police to carry out their tasks in complete serenity. Since 2012, various measures have been taken to combat violence against members of the police services. Some progress is certain, others a little less. An evaluation is therefore necessary in light of the elements we have experienced in recent years with a budget restriction, additional tasks assigned to the federal police, but also a staff framework that is difficult to fill. We are very sceptical about point 4, which seeks to assess the relevance of aggravating the penalties for perpetrators of acts of violence committed against persons in police custody. This provision already exists in our legislation, which is why a member of our group will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u185	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in carrying out their mission, which is of general interest, if it is to be recalled, members of our police are particularly exposed to ever greater risks of aggression. If this has always been a reality, this is more than ever the case today. Every day, news reports of violence against police officers and recent incidents show how dangerous they are in each of their daily interventions. Kitty in 2007, Soraya and Lucile in Liège in 2018, Amaury in Spa in 2018, Maxime who has been in hospital since 9 September after being assaulted during an intervention in Jupille: here are some of the last victims of assaults on police officers in the performance of their duties. Since 2012, several measures have been taken to improve the working environment of federal police officers, not only their status, but also their training. However, we must note that, given the lack of respect for work and the police themselves, the legal framework and measures taken to date are insufficient. No later than 6 November last, a national gathering was held in Liège, a gathering attended by more than 600 members of the federal police who had come to denounce the violence against them. I was there; I heard them. Their concern is real and I want to worry about it here. Their demands to the political representatives that we are are simple: sufficient financial and material resources for the police services, a policy of commitment and training to overcome the shortage of staff and, finally, appropriate penalties for violence against staff members. Our police officers must be able to carry out their missions safely. It is therefore up to the federal authorities to prevent as much as possible, by giving them the appropriate means and equipment, this increased violence against those whose primary mission is to protect the citizens of our country. Mr Matz's resolution, which I therefore thank for his initiative, does not meet all the expectations of the sector, but it is a first step. And I thank her for taking this step. This is a first response for the sector, for demonstrations and union demands of the police sector. Launching the signal that improves the fight against violence against members of the police service must be tomorrow, more than ever, a political priority for the groups here in plenary session. The Ecolo-Green Group will support this resolution, as we did in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u186	Mrs. Chanson, congratulations on your maiden speech. [[Applause]] Mr Demon was entered in the general discussion, but he is not present at the moment. Maybe he'll show up. As long as the general discussion is open, he can have the floor. I give the floor to Mr Colebunders.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u187	Mr President, like any employee, police officers are entitled to good working conditions. The demands of police unions for better compensation, better training and better guidance can therefore count on our support. We find it somewhat ironic that the right-wing parties are, so to speak, taking the side of the police on this issue. Do the right-wing parties ever hear the police unions complain about the unbearable overtime and the excessive workload? The staff shortage, due to savings, is up to 16%. What impact does this have on staff safety? We support the observation that violence against agents is a serious problem. For this reason, we in the committee responded to cdH's request to make a thorough assessment of the current measures to protect the police. In 2018, we already supported the better protection of police officers attacked in their private lives. Attacking a cop in his family atmosphere is just not done. However, we have some reservations about the present proposal, particularly with regard to citizens' rights and the role that policy has given to the police in recent years. Firstly, the resolution now before us calls for the police database to be expanded. However, we must be careful in dealing with citizens' data. The principle of need to know remains the guiding principle for us. However, the resolution now before us does not clarify the way in which and the reason why the ANG needs to be adapted. Secondly, in the evaluation of the federal police, we saw that the community-oriented police are being undermined, mainly by the savings. We have held enough hearings in the Committee on the Interior to clarify this. A neighborhood agent from Genk told me that he used to have more time to come between people, but that nowadays he is only constantly called up for trouble. The policy of the past few years has allowed the police to be less and less your friend, and that leads to problems. The law-and-order vision has become a model of conflict in reality. We are thinking, for example, of the recent police action against climate protesters in Brussels. Such a performance naturally leads to some push and pull work. We regret that this policy creates situations in which agents and citizens can be put at risk. We want a different role for the police. That is why we want to look at the broader picture. We proposed holding hearings with victims and experts on violence against the police, but also with victims of excessive police actions themselves. This call was not heard, which means that we cannot vote in favour of this proposal and will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u188	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Demon has arrived and is now taking the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u189	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, violence against all authorities and emergency services cannot under any circumstances be accepted. These people are here to help us and to take care of our safety. We must therefore never accept that they are themselves subjected to violence. CD&V has always been crystal clear and that is why we have taken various initiatives in the past. The present proposal for a resolution focuses specifically on aggression against members of the different police forces. Since 2012, several concrete measures have been taken to address this issue in depth. Most of the measures are listed in the proposal. So I will not repeat them here, but it is important that these are measures, both in terms of prevention and repression and aftercare. The first objective of the present proposal is to carry out a thorough evaluation of all these measures. We are, of course, in complete agreement with that. However, an evaluation only makes sense if it is followed up. If it turns out that certain measures need to be adapted and strengthened, we will certainly be taking part in the debate. Finally, we also support the idea of continuing public awareness campaigns and the need to further refine the registration of violence against police forces. Colleagues, let's be clear. CD&V will adopt this proposal and ensure that it is properly implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u190	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the fact is more than shared by my group. Our police services are regularly subjected to violence in the performance of their duties. Some of them are relayed in the media, others are not. Some are registered, others are not. They can take several forms: physical assault, threats, insults and I pass. Sometimes, we all remember, these targeted violence lead to drama. In addition to the essential issue of physical and material protection on the ground for our police officers, it is important to continue to take stock of the phenomenon and to adapt our legislation in this area very concretely to prevent impunity and to ensure the punishment and condemnation of these targeted acts committed against our police forces. Such violence cannot constitute a fatality linked to the profession of police officer. In the face of this phenomenon, we must do everything we can to better protect those who protect us. It is for this reason that the MR group had tabled, as early as 2014, a bill to make these acts subject to aggravating circumstances, by attaching a security penalty to the conviction. The government followed this proposal by including it in our law in 2017. That same year, the Ministers of the Interior and Justice reinforced their circulars to ensure the systematic opening of judicial information in such cases. There is, of course, a need to continue efforts and concrete actions. Mr Matz's proposal goes in this direction. Moreover, the Minister of the Interior gave a positive opinion. The assessment requested is important, in order to ensure the instruments of systematic recording of such acts of violence. I hope that this issue, which is essential in the view of the MR, will have to go beyond the political divide. We are very committed to respecting the integrity of our agents of public authority and force as well as that of our relief services. Our group will, of course, continue its work in this area. This motion for a resolution is of common sense. That is why the MR Group strongly supports it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u191	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the sp.a will also approve this resolution. Our police services are under enormous pressure, not only because of the shortage of staff they are facing, but also because of the violence that is being used against our policemen. The trade unions have been talking about this violence for a long time. That is also one of the reasons why more and more policemen are dropping out. With this resolution we are sending an important signal that we do not accept that violence. For sp.a, the theme is important not only in relation to the police services but also in relation to the aid workers in general. We shall come back to that later. However, we shall now vote in favour of the resolution because it is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u192	Mr President, I thank most of the groups for their support of this important resolution. As many have pointed out, this resolution is not just one element among others, but it has the advantage of synthesizing not only what has been undertaken especially since 2012, but also of putting into perspective for the future. I hear Ecolo's remark about the worsening of sentences. This is one element among others since there are other provisions. The idea was precisely to be able to make a comprehensive package both on prevention and, possibly, since it is a strong demand from the police, on the worsening of sentences. I'm saying eventually. I think that this should also be the subject of further discussion. In order to have a comprehensive policy, all aspects must be taken into account. Some colleagues recalled the number of deaths in the police as a result of attacks. It's not just about moving. Of course, as politicians, we are as excited as we are among the population. But more needs to be done. I also quote other figures from 2018: 787 complaints of beatings, 514 complaints of armed rebellion, 4,135 complaints of unarmed rebellion, 2,908 complaints of contempt of a police officer. Of course, not all these acts are recorded. I have heard that some want to oppose possible acts of police overburden to violence against them. I don't think one of them is effective against the other. We have to distinguish one from the other. This resolution follows a real phenomenon of violence. As other colleagues have said, police officers also feel as violence the means that have been reduced, particularly at the level of the federal police. I recall that 3,000 police officers are still missing across the country. Unfortunately, as with immigration policy, it is also owed to a Minister N-VA who has emptied the federal police of its substance. I'm looking at the minister. I know that he is trying to make every effort to make up for this delay, particularly at the staffing level. It's also violence for them because they're under pressure. There is also violence every day. What we want is a society of respect. We want to give a clear signal to all police officers, whether they are operational, CALog, local or federal police, that we want to make every effort to prevent, as far as possible, the perpetuation of this violence. Thus, we propose to evaluate the measures, to launch an awareness-raising campaign on this violence, to adapt the BNG database for the registration of acts of violence against professionals of general interest, specifically police officers, to assess the relevance, to increase the maximum penalties for perpetrators of violence against members of the police force. Of course, this is a strong demand they have made. The resolution is a valuable tool for future Ministers of the Interior and Justice as it has the advantage of identifying what has been undertaken since 2012 and proposing concrete measures to improve the situation of our police officers on the ground. It is indeed time to raise public awareness of more respect for our police officers whose mission is paradoxically to protect them. A society that trivializes violence is a society that is not well!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u193	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over. No amendments have been tabled or retabled. No amendments were tabled or retabled. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u194	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Barbara Pas, Annick Ponthier, Ellen Samyn, Steven Creyelman, Pieter De Spiegeleer, Kurt Ravyts, Tom Van Grieken. The Committee on External Relations proposes to reject this motion for a resolution. (276/2) The Committee on External Relations proposes that this motion for a resolution be rejected. (276/2) In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the author. Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the author. Mrs Darya Safai, rapporteur, is not present. It shall refer to its written report. I now give the floor to Mrs Pas as the main proposer of the proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u195	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I tabled my motion for a resolution at the beginning of September and, in fact, there have been only arguments in the meantime. Had I rewritten the text today, the bundle would have been a bit thicker. Just think of the military offensive that Turkey has been conducting in northern Syria since 10 October, and in which it is, quite euphemistically speaking, targeting the Kurds. In recent years, I have had to interview the Foreign Minister very often about the situation in Turkey. I have regularly questioned Mr Reynders today, like his predecessors, about poignant situations, not only about the situation of the Turkish Kurds, who are victims of widespread government violence, but also about Erdogan's statements, for example that women are not equal to men. According to Erdogan, women are so different that they absolutely cannot be placed at the level of men, of which we acknowledge. I questioned the Minister about the crackdown on a demonstration of women's rights in Istanbul, about all the other protests that are being brutally crushed. I questioned him about the fact that newspaper editors are being transformed into press chambers of the regime, about the legal persecution of critical journalists in Turkey. Nowhere in the world are there so many journalists and people because of an opinion in prison as in Turkey. I questioned the Minister about censorship and the blocking of social media and so on, as well as about all cases of restrictions on freedom of expression in Turkey. Every year I questioned him again about the progress report of the European Commission, which in practice proved to be a retrograde report. Each time, there was no proper conclusion to it, by no foreign minister I questioned about it. They shared the concern and they were worried. It has become a kind of permanent state of concern. Moreover, all these things did not prevent the previous government from concluding a blackmail deal with Erdogan's figure. In 2016, the parties of the Michel government agreed to the principle of relaunching and even accelerating negotiations with Turkey. At the time, there was no agreement to speed up Turkey's accession. In 2015, Erdogan was incorporated into the Order of Leopold by the Michel administration. The turn came only after a failed coup d'état in Turkey. That's when Erdogan was incredibly busy with repression and purification operations. It was only when the European Union criticized that Belgium dared to criticise it. In the end, this criticism was rightly expressed in a resolution adopted in plenary on 16 February 2017. It called on Turkey to temporarily freeze accession negotiations with Turkey in view of the fact that billions of aid had already been granted to Turkey in the so-called pre-negotiation phase. That should have happened a long time ago. We abstained in the vote on that resolution because it did not go far enough for us. A freeze is one thing, but I will give you some arguments as to why the negotiations for us can be definitively stopped. I have added a number of arguments to my motion for a resolution, which are not at all reflected in the resolution adopted in the Chamber two years ago. For example, Turkey still denies the Armenian genocide and still refuses to recognise Cyprus. You will find them all in the majority of my resolution, which the members of the N-VA, who say they also want to stop the accession negotiations with Turkey definitively, did not want to support in committee, because it was 'not diplomatically formulated'. I quote it because you have not received a report because the rapporteur for the N-VA is absent. I have made another attempt to know which passage it was about and which words were not diplomatic enough, because, of course, I am always willing to amend, if a motion for a resolution can be adopted, but I have not received an answer to any of my questions. In an attempt to convince you not to reject my proposal later on, I give you the arguments why the accession negotiations with Turkey should be definitively terminated. What I have noticed from various parties, both when discussing the resolution adopted here in 2017 and when discussing this proposal, is that we want to reduce the whole debate on Turkey's accession to the European Union to the question of whether Turkey meets the Copenhagen criteria. It is said that the country must be a stable democracy, that there is respect for human rights, that it has a functioning market economy and that it takes over European laws and regulations. That is exactly the discussion we had in 2017. That is also the position that Goedele Liekens proclaimed on behalf of Open Vld in the committee. If all these things are in order, Turkey will have a different administration. Take Erdogan away and set up a different administration there and then Turkey can join the European Union perfectly for Open Vld. Now, ladies and gentlemen, there is something like Article 49 of the Treaty on European Union. It clearly states that EU membership is reserved for European countries. Of course, the European Union is not open to all countries that meet the criteria. We can also add Japan, Australia and South Korea tomorrow. Turkey is 97 % geographically not in Europe. Turkey has never historically belonged to European civilisation, unless it is a cruel occupying force. Turkey does not fulfil any economic criteria. Turkey is also Islamic, with 80 million inhabitants, who are free to flood our continent. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not in favour of such a Turkey ever becoming a member of the European Union. Turkey has been a candidate country since 1987. With my proposal, you will finally be able to put an end to it after 32 years. You can ensure that the accession negotiations, at least for our country, are finally stopped. I consistently count on your support in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u196	No one can speak any more. No other speaker may speak. The vote on the proposal to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later stage. The vote on the motion to reject this motion for a resolution will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u197	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Michel De Maegd.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u198	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85.4) (590/5) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85.4) (590/5) The title was changed by the committee in "proposal for a resolution on Belgium's priorities at the Climate Conference (COP 25) in Madrid in December 2019". The title was changed by the Commission to "proposal for a resolution on Belgium's priorities at the Madrid Climate Conference (COP 25) in December 2019.' The discussion is open. The meeting's open. The rapporteur is Mr Bert Wollants. He is also included in the general discussion. So he can unite two interventions in one.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u199	Ladies and gentlemen, our committee has examined this proposal for a resolution on 6 and 20 November 2019. It was tabled by Mr De Maegd, who clearly indicated that the next Climate Conference would take place in a context where civil society expressed its support for the fight against global warming. He stated that the aim of this resolution was to establish a policy to combat climate change, aimed at technological progress and digitisation, which should be effective in the fields of the environment, the economy and social issues. The first part of our discussion was devoted to the initial motion for a resolution, as tabled. Most of the groups have indicated that the resolution was too broad and should be aimed at providing a basic document for the forthcoming Climate Conference, so that positions can be taken on the ground on the basis of this text. Following that initial text, several members expressed critical reservations on a number of issues. Reference was made to the fact that the limits of federal powers were not respected in the text. There were concerns about the feasibility and level of ambition of the objectives set. There were also a number of specific comments on measures and sectors to be included in the proposal. The specific impact of a number of principles of previous climate agreements was also addressed, such as loss and damage and the extent to which countries can voluntarily cooperate on the basis of well-known mechanisms. Finally, a discussion was held on the further evolutions in society and the differing views on these issues, between which a balance had to be struck. This has given rise to a number of informal working meetings between the various political groups, which have led to a new text, which was to a large extent intended to respond to the concerns of the various Members. The new text was tabled jointly by seven political groups. All the groups present have expressed a positive view of the evolution of the text, in which the various groups have indicated the areas in which improvements are favourable to them. At the same time, some political groups point out that the text is, in their opinion, too far or not far enough. Several sub-amendments were tabled to respond to this. These sub-amendments deal, among other things, with the removal of the competitiveness of companies, the elimination of the mention of private investment and the removal of parts aimed at competition between companies. After the sub-amendments were rejected, the committee approved both the amendment and the amended text of the resolution by 13 votes in favour and 3 abstentions. Mr President, if I may, I will proceed with my personal statement at once.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u200	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u201	Ladies and gentlemen, today's resolution is a clear signal from Parliament for the forthcoming Climate Conference. It provides a clear framework for the Minister in current affairs, within which she can carry out her duties. Ladies and gentlemen, with a government in current affairs, it is logical that only Parliament, with full authority, can set out those guidelines, which is clearly the case with this text. The text also makes a very clear reference to the fact that the resolution is a task. When we adopt the text, Parliament has made it very clear that it wishes to be involved in all further initiatives in this area. Of course, we will also keep the Minister on this mission. We assume that the Minister, when she leaves for Madrid by train or by plane, will not be able to colour outside the lines of the text laid down here. It is important to mention that the text is also an extension of the interparliamentary resolution, which was adopted here in 2018. That resolution is a broad signal from the various parliaments, which results in a virtually unanimous vote. The requests are very much in line with the expectations of the various parliaments. In some areas, they are now being further underlined or clarified. That was then a clear and well-considered process, which, after intense discussions, led to an appropriate result. Ladies and gentlemen, the resolution before us today contains a number of very important elements. For example, the text clearly focuses on a coherent long-term strategy for Europe, aimed at climate neutrality, which should ensure that it is done in a cost-effective way. It also highlights very clearly the importance that climate action is accompanied by additional efforts from other trading blocs. Europe is not an island on climate grounds. All parts of the world must assume their responsibilities, which is what the text says in that way. That is very important to us. Europe has been ahead of us for a long time and a long time, but it has not looked back. We were alone at the finish line, but no one followed. That can't be true in the future. This text stresses that everyone, but everyone, must make a fair effort and that we can demand it. The resolution also pays particular attention to the competitiveness of businesses and to the purchasing power of our families, to whom it envys. Economic and ecological growth must go hand in hand for us. That is also very clear in the resolution. If economics and ecology are to be reconciled, then we must take the path of innovation, which we have always put forward. Finally, we must do all this with respect for the environment. It is absolutely not the case that climate action is always in line with the environment. Today there are regions where climate action is being taken to the detriment of the environment, human rights and so on. So this doesn't always go hand in hand. Think of how cobalt and rare earth metals are being extracted today, for example in Africa. This is work that is usually done by the poorest and sometimes also by children. That is what is happening today so that we could use these raw materials to shape our green technology. Another example is the discussion about palm oil, which we just had with Minister De Croo. The resolution before us today says that such practices cannot be tolerated. If this resolution were to be adopted in Parliament, we would have to stick to it in the future. Colleagues, these are very important elements that make this more than the classic resolution we write every year because we want to write a resolution every year. Climate policy is more than a new year's letter that is read out because the Minister has to leave for a climate summit by plane. Climate policy is about what we do ourselves, about how abroad does it, about how to motivate them and about how we do it. If we want to unite these elements, then we must give signals. This is a clear signal. We have set out the framework that the government can, must and will keep in running or running cases. We shall be watching and we shall be happy to approve this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u202	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the climate summit is an annual event that provides for an annual recurring resolution to be adopted in Parliament, as Mr Wollants said. However, it is extraordinary to adopt a climate resolution again today because we have had a special year. There has never been a year before when there were so many people on the streets, young people and the elderly, with a clear demand for solutions, support, to deal with the climate crisis. We, as policymakers, legislators, politicians, have never been pushed so hard on the facts. There's never been so much call to accept our responsibility. In this sense, it is very special that we are today adopting a climate resolution, which again sets out a number of objectives, but also combines measures with the objectives. Colleagues, the support has never been greater. The support of citizens, businesses and public authorities. It is a challenge for all of us to unite these three partners and work together to find solutions that work for everyone. Look at Wallonia, where the regional government has decided to set up a very participatory climate process. In the Netherlands people work with climate tables and look together what can work for everyone. I am particularly pleased that the Minister for Development Cooperation is present during the discussion of this resolution. The Minister of Climate is not yet here, she may be joining us. The Minister for Development Cooperation is sometimes forgotten in the climate debate, not by us. In any case, sometimes too little attention is paid to the position of development cooperation in the climate debate, especially at international summits. Our climate policy is a matter of justice, of social justice, not only here but also between countries here and countries in the South. It is therefore very important to highlight a number of points in the resolution. I'm going to highlight three and then maybe make another pair thesis to a fourth point that has indirectly to do with it. The first concerns the objectives. In this Parliament, in the previous legislature, I was not there at the time, but most of you adopted several resolutions which set out the path that our country should follow until 2030 and 2050. This resolution reiterates the need to achieve climate neutrality by 2050. In this sense, we are writing in "Ursula von der Leyen" today and yesterday in the European Parliament on the agenda of the new European Commission in Ursula von der Leyen and in a European climate strategy. So by 2050 we, as a continent of Belgium, want to be climate neutral. With Europe, we have the strongest vision of climate neutrality. This means that we are also the continent that can lead. We might ask ourselves what else we should do, because we are already doing so much, but our keen vision, coupled with measures, is just one way to attract the others. This Parliament has already indicated that intermediate objectives are also needed. So there is a clear vision of what we will do from now until 2030. Objectives, of course, always go hand in hand with measures. It is certainly also a merit of the resolution to emphasise these measures. It is not enough just to place a sign, if one does not know how one can get to that sign. This is something our group would like to underline. I am thinking of any concrete proposal that will be put forward in this House and which includes measures that will help to achieve carbon neutrality and initiate the energy transition. These may be proposals that are already under discussion today, for example a proposal in the Committee on Economic Affairs on the greening of the fleet, or proposals that are pending in the Mobility Committee, but we will always be a partner for solutions. As far as Madrid in particular is concerned, there are two things that are very important. I am very pleased that they are also very clearly included in the resolution. Firstly, it is about the functioning of the carbon markets. After Kyoto, we have seen that the facts with flexible mechanisms do not always achieve what it intended. At the time, there was a lot of cake-making about these flexible mechanisms. In practice, we have seen that these very often lead to double counting and that there is a real risk of hot air. There is nothing wrong with the principle of a carbon market. There is nothing wrong with solidarity in principle either. There is also, in principle, nothing wrong with looking at how we can achieve an objective together and see if a market mechanism can help in this. However, the market mechanism as designed under the Kyoto Agreement has not led to the desired effects. There is now an historic moment to avoid making the same mistake under the Paris Agreement. Moreover, with regard to the functioning of the carbon markets, the only element of the Paris agreement that has not yet been operationalised. The environmental integrity of Article 6 of the Paris Agreement is explicitly included in the resolution. I believe that this is a good thing for our Belgian negotiators in the European team, because they can give the importance of environmental integrity in the carbon markets in the multilateral negotiations. The second point is climate damage. In this respect, I welcome the presence of the Minister for Development Cooperation. Climate damage can now be quantified up to 520 billion dollars. However, there is still a lot of ecological and human damage to be added. The climate damage regime is actually the third pillar of climate policy. The first pillar is mitigation, the second pillar is adaptation. The third pillar is about elements that cannot be prevented, to which people cannot adapt, but which happen to us. The deepest example is the disappearance of a small island state due to a hurricane. Under the Paris agreement, there was a very difficult discussion about this, as much also has to do with responsibility and liability. I think we should now take note of the fact that this is covered by the Paris agreement, given that certain articles in the agreement create a framework for dealing with it, including the issue of liability. Now we are talking about financing it. The arrangement, the Warsaw International Mechanism, is also one of the points in Madrid. I believe that the States under UNFCCC should make progress in this regard. In our resolution we stressed that the mechanism should be operationalised, including the importance of its financing. That is an important first step. Finally, I would like to conclude with the reference in this motion for a resolution to another resolution which we approved in the Chamber of Parliament not so long ago, namely the Belgian contribution to the Green Climate Fund. In that resolution, we asked the government to double the federal share of the Belgian contribution. The Belgian share of the Green Climate Fund in the first round of funding was 50 million euros. Last week we received an interesting presentation in committee from the Minister for Climate, who clarified that the share was not EUR 50 million, but EUR 40 million of capital and EUR 10 million for a loan. If we double the amount, we would thus get EUR 80 million. The Minister makes a mistake on two points. Firstly, whether it is a capital contribution or a loan, these are ultimately modalities. Moreover, in committee, the Minister humbly admitted that it is a loan, but that we already know in advance that we will not get back the money for the projects we will finance with the loan, which we do not need, because it is an important problem. From what she has said, I would say that we are giving EUR 50 million and that the split between 40 million and 10 million is actually mechanical, symptomatic. If the Chamber here asks the government to double the federal share of the Belgian contribution, it is indeed about 50 million euros. I am therefore very interested in the position of the Minister for Development Cooperation on this issue. The second point for which the Minister gave an opening goes back to the debate on budget neutrality and additionality. She recalled in committee that in Belgium, under climate policy, we are generating revenues from the ETS, which includes European auction revenues, which was agreed in the National Climate Commission to transfer 10% of these revenues to the federal government and that we might be able to allocate some of those revenues to the federal state to the Green Climate Fund. In this way, the principle of budget neutrality, as set out in the motion for a resolution, could be met, while at the same time ensuring that the whole of the funds does not come from the general budget or from the budget for development cooperation. I think we could find each other on that point. Ultimately, regular development cooperation is also important. Climate policy certainly has a place in development cooperation, but it could and should be additional to that. I was somewhat disappointed by the discussion with the Minister for Climate Change, who is travelling to Madrid.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u203	Mr. Hedebouw, you're interrupting.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u204	There's a member of my group and another member of my congregation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u205	These are all aggravating circumstances, Mrs van der Straeten. I'm trying to show you the floor in all serenity.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u206	I'm waiting for them to finish their little chat. I'll finish up. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that we can adopt the motion for a resolution. I am very pleased with the carbon neutrality. In particular, I hope that we can be a little more ambitious with this and that the text will not be minimized afterwards, as happened with the resolution on the Green Climate Fund. I would once again ask the government to fully honour the resolution on international climate finance and therefore to double the amount.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u207	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, our group is particularly pleased to have reached a consensus on Belgium's priorities at the Madrid Conference. COP25 continues the dynamics of the different COPs. It is essential to prepare for the succession of each country's climate commitments. For our group, it was important to reaffirm the Paris Agreement and to pursue its objectives, but also to go further, stating that the environmental transition must be socially just and must not affect the most vulnerable. For us, it was also essential to refer to rail transport, which must play a central role in the future, both for domestic and international travel. Supporting credible alternative mobility is the way we want to go. We understand, of course, the messages sent by young people and the various environmental associations. The urgency resonates all the more after the alarm cry launched at the United Nations via the World Meteorological Organization (WMO). According to her, there is no sign of a slowdown or even a decrease in the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere despite all the commitments made with the Paris agreement. We therefore hope that the COP will be a real turning point and that we will go without a doubt towards sustainable and socially just development. More than ever, it is time to act with high ambitions. The whole world must focus on solutions and Belgium must actively participate in them. It is a text co-built with my colleagues which was adopted in committee and which is before you today. I would like to take this opportunity to thank each of the people who have been involved in this work, which we have carried out with a positive method, beyond the dividing lines. Congratulations to you all.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u208	Mr President, I have some bad news for the assembly: we will not be able to go out later, because the climate emergency has been declared this afternoon in the European Parliament. [[Applause from Mr Dedecker]] I can't help it either, Mr Dedecker. The climate emergency situation has been declared. The question is how this terminology and this way of working will advance us. Indeed, CO2 emissions are not doing very well worldwide. We have been able to take note of this too this week. There is still important news, Mr President. Anuna De Wever will not get to Madrid in time next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u209	She is still in the Amazon forest and would only hit Madrid if she took the plane, but that is not an option, as she knows. Don't worry, ladies and gentlemen, because another delegation from Youth for Climate Belgium will be travelling to COP and will hold our politicians responsible for 'their ridiculously unambitious climate policy'. Anuna also points out that the fact that Madrid has taken over the organisation of the Santiago Climate Summit is good news for our climate ministers. Anuna says that ministers can now easily take the train and thus contribute their part. I therefore hope that anyone who goes to Madrid next week or in ten days will indeed take the train. I don't know if that'll be the case. I thought it was important that I made that clear, Mr President, in the light of the resolution before us today. Mr De Maegd, I would like to begin by congratulating you on your resolution. I would also like to congratulate you on another ethical dossier, but I might be getting ahead of it. Your resolution contains a number of important things, even in the requesting part. I am thinking of the night trains, which always remind me of some good films, or of your wishes for a Blue COP, in other words emission-free maritime transport. I would also like to thank you for your great willingness to look for the greatest common denominator. Your initial text was based on a great belief in technological evolution in the fight against CO2 emissions. We share this faith with you. I refer, for example, to the news of an American energy company that has found a new way to reflect, through artificial intelligence and a field full of mirrors, so much sunlight that it generates extreme heat, up to a thousand degrees Celsius. This is an important breakthrough because for the first time concentrated solar energy can be used to create enough heat to make cement, steel, gas and other industrial processes. CO2-free sunlight could replace fossil fuels in one of the world's largest emissions sectors. I also refer to the reality of synthetic fuels which are becoming increasingly competitive and which, combined with renewable energy, can open up new prospects. The Flemish interest stresses that technologies must not be excluded. What is wrong with a maslin boiler, for example, if one could make fuel oil CO2 neutral? I note, moreover, that now that the crusade against biofuels has been launched, the environmental movement has once again discovered a new enemy, namely hydropower and hydroelectric power stations, as a threat to biodiversity. So that's not good anymore. However, Mr De Maegd, your resolution, which, of course, is also a compromise in which you had to meet Ecolo-Green and the PS Group, continues to bathe in the atmosphere of what you yourself describe as Belgium's determination. In your opinion, the federal government should advocate, within the European delegation, an ambitious position for European action in the negotiations in Madrid, for CO2 neutrality by 2050. At a time when Flanders will not even reach the 2020 targets for the production of renewable energy, this is a bit surreal. Mrs Demir, the Flemish Minister for Energy and Climate, recently emphasised that CO2 emissions have fallen by 5% since 2005 in 14 years and should now decrease by 35% by 2030. For the time being it is at least 35%. Although it is no longer in the text of this resolution, many Members here believe that Belgium should take the lead and go for a reduction of 55% by 2030. It is no longer in the text, but many here want it to be. Mr De Maegd has therefore had to be persuaded to abandon this mirage. It is very important that Mr Wollants has fortunately succeeded in drawing full attention to the principle of 'equal crossing' with regard to global climate efforts in the process of achieving this resolution. I quote the passage: 'in this respect, it is important that other major trading blocs also make additional climate efforts'. However, with regard to this principle of equal access, my group continues to insist on a number of realities. Although, according to some, China is on the envisaged climate plan, it intends, for example, to build new coal plants whose capacity matches that of the entire European park of coal plants. The plants that were added between January 2018 and June 2019 alone, representing a capacity of 43 GW, have destroyed the efforts of the rest of the world to shut down coal power plants during that period. Colleagues, three weeks ago, it also appeared that no G20 country is on course to limit global warming to 1.5 °C. The US is stepping out of the climate agreement, which has been announced once again. Only 5 of the G20 countries have committed themselves to becoming climate neutral by 2050. These are all realities against the background of this resolution. Furthermore, this resolution also refers to a carbon border charge for imported products which corresponds exactly to the carbon price for European products in the European ETS trading system. This could create a more level playing field for Europe. Will the World Trade Organisation play a part in this? Ladies and gentlemen, when we discussed the resolution on increasing the federal contribution to the Green Climate Fund last month in the Chamber, we abstained. Those new Belgian commitments have also been included in the resolution before us today, and we continue to have questions in a world of not crossing equally. Mr President, the resolution also calls for a debate on the adaptation of the Chicago Convention. The treaty came into force in 1944 and it was agreed internationally that aviation fuel would be exempted from excise duty: the kerosene tax. Indeed, it is true that in the meantime several large aviation markets, such as the United States, Canada and Japan, are already charging a tax on kerosene for their domestic flights. The use of kerosene is in fact not taxed anywhere in Europe at the moment. Indeed, there is also confusion about the difference between a kerosene tax and a flight tax, a direct levy on ticket prices. It is, however, caricature to say that today the aviation sector is not being heavily taxed. There are costs for the use of air traffic control, overflight rights, take-off and landing fees, airport taxes and national passenger taxes. Moreover, Brussels Airport charges additional costs for those wishing to land on an old and loud plane. In any case, the sector is already faced with a number of excise duties, but it is important to us that this does not apply to the consumer. The VAT does not apply to airline tickets. Only on domestic flights, which hardly take place, our country raises the lowest VAT rate of 6%. And yes, as far as ticket prices are concerned, Europe is indeed cheap. The question is whether that is a disgrace. I do not want to say in my surroundings that we will open a debate on a kerosene tax and flight tax when I know what the impact of these taxes on ticket prices will be. Indeed, a number of simple people in this country do not fly to culturally high destinations. Mrs Pas, I dare even mention Turkey or the Spanish costas. I would treat them very respectfully and with no pity. If you require those people to pay much higher prices, we are not socially engaged. After all, the European Union has carried out an investigation into these taxes, which has shown that there is indeed an impact, both on kerosene tax and on flight tax. The debate on the price of flying may be held for me. However, there is a need to clarify its impact on consumers. Mr President, I will conclude. We will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u210	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a few hours ago the European Parliament declared the climate emergency. That obviously doesn't mean you won't be able to get out of your house anymore. I assure you, this is actually a wise decision. In fact, we have anticipated this in this resolution. Let me quote François Mauriac, Nobel Prize laureate for literature in 1952, who wrote: "It is no use for man to win the Moon if he loses the Earth." Even more so today than seven hundred years ago, climate change is putting on our planet, on vulnerable populations, on the economies of many countries, threats that we must have the courage to face. Next Tuesday, in five days, therefore, COP 25, the 25th United Nations Climate Conference, will meet in Madrid under Chilean presidency. For our group, it is essential to speak with one voice, to focus on the best possible cooperation between the various international but also national levels of power, in order to coordinate the various actions in this field. Yes, Mr Ravyts, Belgium must be a driving force at European level in bringing states together on this climate issue, with the aim of achieving common policies in this area. We hope that all the necessary initiatives will be taken to ensure an effective and useful presence for our country at COP 25, in particular through bilateral or multilateral contacts with all the actors present. Ladies and gentlemen, the motion for a resolution which you have approved by a large majority in committee is, in my opinion and that of the MR, a step forward, although the exercise, I grant you, is sometimes difficult. Despite the short time that we had to achieve it, despite differences of opinion on certain points - it is quite normal and that is the essence of the democratic debate - compromises have been reached in order to reach a final text. I would also like to thank all the participants in this joint work that has been carried out during many formal and informal meetings. This shows, however some may think, that dialogue and constructive work can still be carried out in our country. I thank all the parties that, with the exception of the PTB and Vlaams Belang, have allowed this text to be adopted in committee. This is not the first time that our Parliament has been working on a resolution on the COP. In the past, on the initiative of the MR, several similar resolutions have been adopted. But this text has new features. For example, we are integrating the European green deal, led by Mrs Ursula von der Leyen, which will be at the heart of the European Commission's action in the coming weeks and which aims to achieve the vision of a climate-neutral Union by 2050. Emphasis will be placed on the development of the circular economy and financing capacities at European level. It is also important to examine, at European level, ways to make products manufactured by companies outside the Union and imported into Europe more sustainable in accordance with the rules of the World Trade Organisation (WTO). Madrid must also be a blue COP. Our country must continue to play a leading role in protecting the oceans by advocating internationally for greenhouse gas-free shipping and environmentally friendly port infrastructure. With regard to mobility, it is necessary to promote sustainable alternatives to continental air transport, in particular by strengthening the European rail network with, for example, the Brussels-Vienna link, which will be launched in January 2020. The launching of a debate at European level on the polluter pays principle can be better reflected in the aviation sector by examining in particular the fiscal measures and the possibilities for adjustment of the said Chicago Convention. Finally, with regard to financing the fight against climate change, our resolution calls for a very formal announcement that the federal financial contribution to the Green Climate Fund will be doubled from 2020, as we requested here, by resolution a few weeks ago. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, the work done in just a few weeks has been very important. We can be proud of that. It was the result of a common desire to respond to the messages sent to us by some of the population in recent months. We cannot and do not want to listen deafly to the climate emergency. Of course, the institutional complexity of our country makes concrete action in favour of the climate more difficult, but this should not be an excuse. We must act firmly by avoiding disaster, establishing a proactive, pragmatic and eco-positive strategy. Our will for the coming months is to go even further by working together with the other assemblies of our country in an interparliamentary climate policy. Colleagues, I think that some issues transcend political divides, and this is one of them. I thank you for your support for this text and invite you to extend this commitment in the coming months and years. An Arab proverb that I love says, "Whoever wants to do something finds a way; who doesn't want to do anything finds an excuse." Let's find ways to reinvent ourselves! It is our collective responsibility to bequeath to future generations a more breathable, more lasting world where dream, inventiveness and ambition will still have their place, always bearing in mind, as the Australian Aboriginals say, that: "The earth does not belong to man but it is man who belongs to the earth."
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u211	Colleagues, next week the Climate Change Conference will begin in Madrid. We have all worked hard on the proposal for a resolution. It is also widely supported in our committee. The resolution will ensure that Minister Marghem can go to COP25 with a clear position. We are therefore addressing various climate problems in terms of content. But human rights are also being addressed. The movements that people have to make because of climate change require solidarity, which is a very important signal for us. I would also like to say that we are awaiting a very strong long-term strategy. By 2050 we should be climate neutral. That starts with setting the right priorities. Recently, a member of the Flemish Interest Group mocked the European emergency and Anuna De Wever. I do not believe that we will be able to find solutions in this way. I think that we young people should be motivating these social problems rather than mocking them. I would also like to thank the MR Group for the initiative and the colleagues for the cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u212	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are pleased that this motion for a resolution calls for an ambitious European green deal and a climate-neutral Europe by 2050. We are also pleased that the text takes clear positions on a number of key themes of COP25, such as ensuring environmental integrity in the operationalisation of Article 6 of the Paris Climate Agreement and the implementation of the international mechanism for loss and damage. However, for us, it is essential for Belgium to express itself explicitly in favour of an increase in the EU's climate objectives from the EU's 40th to the 55th by 2030, both at European and international level. That is what the Paris climate agreement is asking us to do. That is also what is necessary according to science. We tabled a proposal on this in committee, but unfortunately that was voted down. In fact, at the end of last year, Parliament voted in favour of increasing its ambitions to reach the target of 55 per cent by 2030. The PVDA therefore regrets that the climate ambition for 2030 is not included in the present text. One party will abstain from the vote because it considers the text to be too far-reaching. He doesn't go far enough for us. The PVDA is for an ambitious, social and just climate policy. For these reasons, the PVDA will abstain from voting on the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u213	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 1 meter 87. That's not my height, but that's how high the water was in Venice two weeks ago. At that time, our colleagues in the Veneto Parliament were holding budget talks. The replacement of diesel buses, the limitation of plastic and the installation of new green energy were voted off. Then the water flowed into parliament. What did our colleagues decide with their feet in the water? They have decided to allocate EUR 20 million as emergency aid to the city and its inhabitants, but that is, of course, bad money, at a time when the city is being hit and its viability is under severe pressure. You may wonder what the problems of Venice have to do with a resolution on COP25. Well, these events are a very nice reflection of our national, but also of our international climate policy. At a time when we all know what to do and what measures to take, there are still politicians discussing its usefulness. In this way, they create divisions and anxiety in society. We can spare them for this theme. A resolution on COP25 is before this House today. A resolution has also been discussed today in the European Parliament. There, too, a strong signal was sent by means of a resolution. Perhaps you heard Mrs von der Leyen yesterday. It is clear that there will be an ambitious European Commission, which wants to mean a great deal in this area. I would therefore like to join with the message she gave yesterday because, together with Mr Timmermans, she wants to transform the European Investment Bank into a climate bank. She says there is money for investment and there are technologies. So there is still a lot to be done. It's not too late, but this is the time to respond. That is a message of hope, which I can only endorse. She also said that all climate proposals in the European Parliament should be inclusive. That means everyone can come with us. We are totally on that line. I am also very pleased that the resolution states that the proposals must be socially fair, because we must be honest: not everyone has the opportunity to take measures at home to reduce their ecological footprint. So I do not understand, Mr van het Vlaams Belang, why it would not be good to help people isolate their homes. Why shouldn't it be good to tackle the carbon problem and ensure healthier air in our society? What the hell is against that? The European Parliament has adopted another resolution. It is true that the climate emergency was declared. This is a symbolic act with a very important message, also for our country. Over the past five years, our country has not been very ambitious. Compared to other European countries, we have even fallen behind. In any discussion on energy efficiency and objectives, our country has been on the hold. Since we are now delivering the President of the European Council, I believe that we cannot afford to do so anymore. However, that is not why sp.a will support the resolution now before us. We do support this resolution because it is a common text and I welcome the fact that we have sought it so that we send a signal across party boundaries. In some places the text is indeed a little non-binding, colleagues of PVDA-PTB. However, there are enough strong points for us to support the text. These include the recognition of the 1.5 °C and the objective of climate neutrality by 2050, the incentive to create an international kerosene tax and the related alternatives via rail, including the night trains through our continent. We also welcome the involvement of the maritime sector in the search for sustainable ports. The focus is also on biodiversity. The doubling of the contribution to the Green Climate Fund is again included, as is the research into the effects and possibilities of a CO2 tax at the borders, the carbon border adjustment mechanism. We like these things very much. Of course, as always, we have some reservations about this text. It is true that the text contains nothing about 2030. We believe that we cannot simply push the ambition forward until 2050 and in the meantime pretend that nothing is going on; 2030 is an important time to reach the 1.5 °C target, but there is nothing in the text about that, and that is a pity. As far as we are concerned, the report on the European Investment Bank, which I have also referred to in committee, should be strengthened. That bank gave a very powerful signal. They say they will no longer invest in fossil energy in the long term, starting from 2021. For us, it's okay from now on, because transition takes time. Finally, I should like to say that the text is a little unaware of the fear that the transition would be a bad thing for our economy. We do not agree with that. Of course there will be costs, but if we do nothing, there will be costs. Of course, some sectors will have difficult turnaround times, no doubt, but a turnaround offers opportunities. In my province the last coal mine was closed 25 years ago. Yet at the beginning of this week we celebrated. We celebrated because, after 25 years of change policy, we have made a lot of progress in many areas and built a new economy. Transition really makes that possible. My message to this House is not to deal with the issue of climate change in the near future as a military purchase to be decided on or as a tax regulation to be approved. The message of scientists today is very clear: our human actions are destroying our planet at a very rapid pace. A lot of scientists agree on that. That was indeed referred to: the United Nations announced this week that there was never so much greenhouse gas in the atmosphere. Today, it was in the paper that Australian scientists said that our planet is heading for a global climate disaster.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u214	Mr Ravyts is asking for the floor for a break.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u215	Mr President, I do not want to prolong the sitting unnecessarily, but I would like to go back to the moment you say, Mr Verduyckt, that the Flemish interest would be opposed to the fact that people are being encouraged to isolate their homes. I don't know where you get all that. Those are all bullshit. We ask of sp.a par excellence, and of other progressive parties, a socially just and affordable climate transition. Have you read in the press today about a survey that was conducted at 2,000 Flemings? Six out of ten Flemings won't invest in climate-promoting interventions on their homes for the next five years because they think it's too expensive. That's news hot from the needle. That's all we're saying. I'll just share that with you. We call for a socially just climate transition. Besides, a flight tax isn't very social either.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u216	Mr Verduyckt said something very important. He has referred to the change in Limburg and has quite rightly cited the advantages of a socially just policy, how one can look to the future and put companies and citizens at the heart of the transition. We must not be alarmed, we must look at positive examples. Mr Verduyckt's example of change is an excellent example of this. It's not the only example. It is just that support, and it is precisely those solutions that will ensure that we achieve the 2030 and 2050 targets in a socially just way.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u217	I'm not hysterical, I'm not a doomthinker, but I'm genuinely concerned. I hope you share that concern. I may not be an ecorealist, but I am realistic enough to know that this resolution is just a signal and that it will not work miracles. Soon we will be talking about the National Energy and Climate Plan, and I hope that will show sufficient decisiveness. Today I call on everyone in Parliament to take responsibility. The water is not literally at the gate here today, but figuratively. Mr Ravyts, let us vote unanimously in favour of this resolution if you are in favour of it. Let's go today for a carbon-free society with which we can narrow our footprints on this planet. You can count on us in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u218	Mr President, many things have already been said. It is true that COP 25 is coming to the conclusion of a year when the reality of the climate emergency has become more evident than ever. A record level of CO2 concentration was detected in the atmosphere. Twelve million hectares of forests have been removed from the map. The level of the oceans has risen by 86 cm. And the highest temperature record ever recorded in Belgium was beaten; it was on 25 July last, with 41.8 degrees. Of course, it is to be welcomed that this Parliament, despite the diversity of its forces, has succeeded in obtaining a large majority for the adoption of a resolution not to be left behind at the Conference which will begin next week in Madrid. However, between not being left behind and being ahead, there is a step that we have not been able to take. In the future, which I hope is near, Belgium will have to make a firm commitment but above all to fulfil its commitments to join many of our neighbouring countries in their efforts to achieve more ambitious objectives at international level and to follow the strong signal given today by the European Parliament. Indeed, as far as the climate emergency is concerned, between our resolution and what has been voted on today in the European Parliament, there is a step that we have not yet managed to take. In the future, therefore, we will still have a lot of work in the verb but even more so in the acts.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u219	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, all over the world, society is mobilizing for the climate, for the preservation of our planet, because we have no planet B, because this planet is the only one we can leave for our children and grandchildren. This has prompted the political world to take urgent and particularly necessary climate action in the light of the various IPCC reports. The COP 25 meeting next Monday will aim precisely to meet this just and legitimate citizen expectation by anticipating and preparing for the effective implementation of the Paris Agreement. My group certainly supports this proposal because of its ambition for the environment, social justice and human rights, three cumulative conditions essential to the success of the climate challenge. We support it because it stresses the importance of reconciling environmental protection and economic growth. We must also see the ecological transition as a real economic opportunity, as we must ensure that all the policies that are and will be carried out in order to meet our objectives do not penalise our fellow citizens, especially those in precarious situations. We can no longer accept the fatalism of seeing the price of our electricity as one of the highest in Europe obliging us to consider our basic needs as luxury products. However, I regret the lack of concrete objectives set out in the operative part of the proposal. I believe, indeed, that the urgency is now to achieve these objectives and that it is time to move to a higher speed, as our federated entities have done, in any case some of them, in particular the Brussels Region. The latter was the first to detail its concrete contribution to the long-term objectives of reducing greenhouse gas emissions under the Paris Agreement. In terms of sustainable construction alone, the Brussels Region has, since 1999, established very strict standards for new construction and large-scale renovation. It is time to put Belgium back on the path of the long-term ambition of the future. But I can, however, understand that the choice made by my colleagues in committee – I would like to thank them here for their work – to consider that the clear mandate that we must give our minister for this Monday, in Madrid, must first and foremost concern our commitments at international level, while knowing that, at the same time, we will have to continue to mobilize at national level in a strong interparliamentary logic. These are the reasons why the DéFI Group will support the text under discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u220	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the colleagues who have worked hard to reach this important agreement. I regret that Minister Marghem cannot be here today to hear the mandate we will be forwarding to her tonight. The mandate given to him is ambitious and will enable him to participate in the COP by making Belgians proud of their country. For the past year, the Belgians have sent us a clear signal. Nearly 365 days ago, on December 2, 2018, there were 100,000 people protesting in the streets of Brussels. Since then, actions in the North and in the South for strong climate action have not ceased. And then there have been changes in habits, in terms of transport and consumption. I saw young people taking action in their schools to also change the way the community was organized within the school system (Coca-Cola machines, school canteen, etc.). This is what Belgian citizens today live on a daily basis. The proof is, again yesterday, the victory that NewB won when it came to raising 30 million euros to launch the first sustainable bank in Belgium. The Belgians are a bit of the climate champions. They have inspired many other movements around the world. Today, we must make them proud and, as called for in the resolution, join the ambitious countries and be a global climate leader. Concrete measures will have to be taken in the coming months. It is a work that must be done tomorrow and also in the composition of the future government. It will be necessary to increase the just transition, to develop alternatives so that everyone can change their habits with, in particular, more sustainable and financially accessible transport. That's what we want. One aspect on which we could work tomorrow here in the House is to improve the sustainability of transportation that parliamentarians use to carry out missions abroad and to promote, wherever possible, the most sustainable mode of transportation. I invite all those interested in this approach to discuss it in the Conference of Presidents. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to have a thought for Chile which would normally host this COP 25 and which, ultimately, because of the demonstrations, will not be able to do so. COP 25 will therefore be held in Madrid. It has been forty days since thousands of people rushed into the streets of Santiago to denounce social inequalities that have persisted since the Pinochet era. Human Rights Watch reported serious human rights violations. On behalf of my group, I would like to extend my full solidarity to the Chilean people. I would like to recall that, while this COP obviously has a huge challenge that is climate change, it is also an opportunity to talk about the social inequalities that are linked to an economic system that crushes people and destroys our environment. Both the movements of the yellow vests, the Chilean movements and the other movements that we see all around the planet must remind us of this link between social inequalities and the destruction of the environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u221	I did not intend to take the floor, my dear friends, but as a state of emergency has been declared, I feel obliged to appease you all a little while and yet to give you a good evening. I will not vote in favour of the motion for a resolution, but I do not think anyone is surprised. I would like to comment on point 15, which says: 'to recognise the growing problem of the relocation and relocation of the population under the influence of climate change'. We have already talked today about migration and refugees. Indeed, we are getting a new kind of refugee, the climate refugee. I have not prepared a speech, but I will read from the collected works of a very great author. Just wait, it'll only take ten minutes, it's not the Bible. "Sedert the origin of humanity, however, has always taken place there as a result of climatic conditions. Droughts and floods have always caused regional disturbances. People have always followed their food production and the biotope in which they thrive most easily. The animals too, whether it was to warmer or colder regions. When the earth warmed up at the end of the last Ice Age, reindeer moved from southern Europe to the colder north. If not, they were extinct. Due to climate change, life on the Central Asian steppe in the fifth century AD was unbearable. Together with the scourge of the ruthless Huns of Attila, who behaved themselves as animals on two legs, this set in motion an unprecedented migration from the east to the west. Climatological factors have always contributed to the emergence and demise of entire cultures. Even the disappearance of the Mayans or the fall of the Roman Empire were associated with this." And now, dear green friends: "CO2 is the food and breath of our plants." What's so funny, ma'am? I like to listen when people laugh. Even in these dark times of emergency, I'm happy to do so. I'll read on. "Deforestation is quite right, because on the one hand it increases the CO2 content, but according to satellite images of Nature Climate Change, our Earth has grown 14 percent greener over the last 30 years! After all, more CO2 in the air makes plants grow faster and also makes them more water efficient. This also increases the food yield. The Africans, who are now sailing to Europe from the Sahel on a crummy barge, are now also called climate refugees. However, there is no increasing drought in the Sahel, according to the African Climate Research Group of the University of Oxford, as well as according to the Deutscher Wetterdienst. The Dutch Meteorological Institute expects the precipitation to increase even further. It rained there for the past 15 years on average more than 40 years before. From Sudan and Mali to Senegal, the harvests increased and the livestock of the nomads grew. In countries like Burkina Faso, the natural vegetation has even moved north over the last decades. In the driest regions of the Sahara, Egypt, Libya and Chad, the vegetation and arrival of birds and rodents has increased. There's never been more rain than the last few years. The level of water in Lake Chad has risen and the famine in the north-east of Nigeria is not so much the fault of climate warming, but rather of the terror of the Islamic social associations such as Boko Haram, says Jacques van Nederpelt. The Huns of that time are now called warriors of Allah. The Dutchman of Nederpelt is an agricultural expert at the universities of Amsterdam and Utrecht and is almost the only scientist doing research in the Sahara, an area as large as the United States and where there is almost no meteorological station. According to Stefan Kröpelin, climate historian of the Africa Research Centre at the University of Cologne, climate warming has a minimal impact on the situation in Africa. In his view, however, there is always a political and economic background, not only in the black continent. In Russia, climate change can already triple agricultural capacity, but corruption and bad policies do not. In Greenland, they call global warming climate improvement." I'm quoting Hans Rosling now. 'Very worrying is the attempt to win people for charity through the invention of the term climate refugees. As far as I know, the link between climate change and migration is very, very weak. The concept of climate refugees is mainly a conscious exaggeration, intended to turn the fear of refugees into fear of climate change and thus to ask a much wider audience for support." These sentences are not from the manifesto of a climate-negationist, but from the book Factfulness by Hans Rosling, professor, doctor, advisor to the WHO and UNICEF, founder of Gapminder and Swedish Doctors Without Borders. Philanthropist Bill Gates finds it one of the most interesting books he has ever read and gave 3.4 million copies as a gift to all students who graduated from an American university this spring, a gesture of 55 million dollars. The exaggeration of the role of climate change, wars and conflicts in poverty and emigration is counterproductive, says Rosling. Contemporary shocking problems such as the war in Syria, Ebola, HIV, sharks attacking people or other distant and unproven hypotheses are, according to him, used to make future dangers concrete in the present. Climate activists who evoke feelings of fear and urgency with exaggerated and unfounded claims, become entangled in their own hotheaded claims and squander their credibility. Political malpractice, corruption and overpopulation are mainly the real causes of the many problems in Africa. The aid industry also prefers to blame the climate, says Gerbert van der Aa, journalist and connoisseur of the Sahel in De Standaard. Africans know that complaining helps, because rich Westerners then, out of pity, open their wallets faster. Climate change is far too important worldwide to be left to superficial worst-case scenarios and prophecies. Famine exists only in dictatorships and colonies, never in a democracy, claims Richard Tol, Professor of Climatology and since 1994 member of the UN climate panel IPCC. In the last century, there was always enough food in the world. The problem is never the quantity but its distribution, wrote the economist and Nobel laureate Amartya Sen in the 1970s, a wise man. Ladies and gentlemen, that's a different clock, but it's mine. (Mr Dedecker hands over the book to the President)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u222	Mr President, Mrs van der Straeten, you have referred a few times to development cooperation and you ask how much the doubling of the Green Climate Fund ultimately amounts to. I would like to clarify this. The pledging session for the Green Climate Fund took place on 24 and 25 October 2019. Then a pledge of 40 million euros was done. On the basis of an opinion from the Treasury Inspectorate, we were no longer able to do so in current cases. At that time, however, we referred to the parliamentary resolution. We initially provided 40 million and then another 10 million, i.e. 50 million. Tijdens de pledge van 24 en 25 oktober werd er verwezen naar de parlementaire resolutie en werd gezegd: "Belgium aims to double its contribution from 50 million in the initial resources mobilisation to 100 million for the first replenishment, in line with the parliamentary resolution adopted on October 24th of this year." Belgium will contribute EUR 100 million and not EUR 80 million to the Green Climate Fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u223	Mr President, Minister, I would like to thank you for this explanation. We have heard something else in committee. Your answer is very clear and it is very nice that Parliament and the government are united here to take responsibility for international climate financing. Mr Dedecker, it is always amusing to listen to you, but fortunately resolutions in this House are not based on just one book. This resolution is indeed based on the IPCC report, which reflects the shared scientific consensus and which is not the opinion of one person.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u224	Mr President, Mrs van der Straeten, you have probably not listened carefully. I've named several people. I told them what their function was at the IPCC. You need to listen better. The people who declared this are members of the IPCC. The book is also available in the better bookstore, at 20 euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u225	Mr President, very briefly. I would just like to respond to Mrs Farih's intervention, who has just reacted horribly to Mr Ravyts' intervention. Mrs Farih, I would like to refer to the hearing that was held in the Committee on Climate Change and on which Youth for Climate was invited. When these young people come out for weeks and get a forum, a chance to come to a committee with a hearing, one would expect them to have some things to say. I have only established, Mrs Farih, that they began to say that they were surprised that they were invited and that they did not know what to say. Now, madam, if that organization takes itself seriously and all those thousands of young people who have come out on the street, then they do not say such things. Then you should also be able to expect us to make such statements.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u226	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over. No amendments have been tabled or retabled. No amendments were tabled or retabled. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u227	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Van der Donkt, rapporteur, referred to his written report. I shall give you the floor immediately in the general discussion, Mr Van der Donkt.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u228	Mr President, first of all, on behalf of our group, I would like to stress that we recognise the importance of this draft law in the fight against fraud. With this bill we will be given a weapon in the fight against VAT carousels crimes. In committee, we have said that there are still some shortcomings in the draft law before us. That is why we tabled an amendment to Article 12 in committee. I am not going to go into that now, as this is already well explained in the report. However, in the preparation of this sitting, we have discovered another error in the draft law, or let me say it with caution and call it an imperfection. A number of additional provisions included in the VAT Lawbook are not linked to the first book of the Criminal Code. However, that is very important, because criminal provisions are now being incorporated into a special law which is actually a bit crooked and with which we will not be able to start much in practice. More specifically, I am referring to Articles 12 and 13 of the draft law, which add Article 73novies and Article 73i to the Code of Value Added Tax. This discussion is legal-technical, but not without importance. We note that Article 73quinquies of the Value Added Tax Code expressly states that all the provisions of the first book of the Criminal Code, including Article 95, apply to the offences referred to in Articles 73, 73a and 73c. Thus, in Article 73quinquies, all criminal provisions contained in this law are linked to the first book of the Criminal Code, but Article 73novies and Article 73i are not included. What's the implication of that? Article 73novies concerns the attempt to commit a particular infringement. For this, a penalty is imposed from eight days to three years and a fine of EUR 26 to EUR 50,000 or one of those penalties alone. Article 73i provides for a much heavier penalty when an infringement is committed by a criminal organisation within the meaning of Article 324a of the Criminal Code. The penalty is then a prison sentence of one year to five years and a fine of 5,000 euros to 500,000 euros. If there is a fine of EUR 26 in a law, you may think that this amount is ridiculous, but it must of course be increased by the figures. Right now, the opdecims are eight. This means that EUR 26 times 8 will be the effective fine. That's very important. Keep that in mind when I continue to reason. We have found that the two Articles 73novies and 73i in the current draft law are not covered by the first book of the Criminal Code. This means de facto that when a judge has to rule on such a crime, he can impose a maximum fine of EUR 5,000 to EUR 500 000 when it happens in a criminal organisation, without applying the sanctions. Colleagues, we are convinced that tax offences, especially when they are committed in a criminal organisation and cross-border, need to be dealt with more heavily. That is precisely the spirit of the European directive that we are now transposing into our legislation. If we do not incorporate Articles 73novies and 73i into our Criminal Code, then we will de facto rape the spirit of the law and punish people lighter than we intended. That can't be the intention, can it? That is why we have tabled a very simple amendment which incorporates Articles 73novies and 73i in Article 73, third paragraph, with a paragraph subdivision, so that there is no longer any problem in that regard. It's actually very simple. If you do not approve the amendment, the people we are arguing against will all agree that they must be punished more severely, and those who commit acts within the framework of a criminal organisation, will be punished lighter than originally intended. The N-VA is sometimes accused of being too lenient for the perpetrators of tax fraud. I will give you the second time now, after we in committee have also made it possible, through an amendment, to impose more severe penalties for inciting such a crime, the possibility of correcting it. If you do not approve the amendment, we have a problem with the application of Article 73novies and Article 73i. In the long term, we will have to work out a repair law, which is not really the intention. We are the legislator and we are supposed to be doing quality work.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u229	Mr President, you know that we prefer to look at the transposition of such European directives in a wider European framework. A number of parties dance around the hot stuff, by falling into details. However, the directive that is being transposed here, the so-called PIF directive, will be very important for the case law of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. I have already said in committee that in a number of countries there is clearly fraud involving European money, which is unacceptable. What is the solution of the good Europeans who constantly want more and more European Union? That is the creation of another European institution. The Flemish interest is against the creation of another such European institution. However, we are in favour of European cooperation between national authorities in the field of fraud. Only 22 European Member States participate in the European Public Prosecutor's Office. Some important countries do not, because they believe that justice belongs to the sovereignty of the Member States and that the new rules are contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. They're right, of course. Because fraud involving European money is too common and not properly addressed in a number of Member States, should we create a new European institution? We are also saying that with this new institution we will give up promise. For example, the Belgian Public Prosecutor's Office's powers of investigation will now have to be shared with the European Public Prosecutor. In doing so, the European Public Prosecutor will be able to exercise a kind of right of priority. As a result, Belgium loses democratic control and we cannot agree to it. We have not adopted this directive in the European Parliament and we will not consistently approve its transposition here in the federal Parliament. We believe that fraud should be dealt with strictly and firmly by cooperation, but not by more Europe, not by additional institutions, and certainly not by increasingly taking down the powers of the Member States.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u230	Mr President, I would just like to talk about the N-VA amendment just now. This amendment was distributed in plenary session. Those who have listened to the explanation know that it is a fairly technical matter, quite complicated. We would like to have more time to study this and find out where there may be hooks and eyes, and whether this will be resolved correctly or not. However, we do not have that time. The amendment is also quite difficult to unravel on paper. That is not Mr Van der Donkt's fault, it is simply a complicated matter. The amendment has also been drafted only in Dutch. For Dutch speakers it is already very difficult to unravel, so I can imagine that it is even more difficult for French speakers. In fact, we would prefer this to go back to committee to discuss it properly, but I understand that there is no enthusiasm for that. Our group will therefore abstain from this amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u231	Mr President, could you perhaps shed some light on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u232	We have adopted the directive directly, without any amendment. In fact, the directive only talks about prison sentences. The Council of State did not comment on this either. I would suggest that we simply convert this, but it is obviously up to Parliament to look at the way in which amendments are dealt with. I also have a more technical explanation if necessary. The opdeciemen are governed by the law of March 5, 1952. Those are the charges against the criminal penalties. These apply not only to the fines included in the Criminal Code, but also to the criminal penalties included in the special laws. The fines included in Articles 73novies and 73i are criminal fines to which they would apply anyway. Technically, we do not think it is necessary to adopt that amendment. We have done a direct transposition of the directives. In principle, there is no additional need.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u233	Mr President, this is indeed a technical discussion, but basically we need to apply Book 1 of the Criminal Code. This is not only the case with the multiplication with the opdecimals, but also in order to be able to properly punish cases of repetition and to assume mitigating circumstances. The amendment does indeed make technical sense. I would ask you to support this amendment. Otherwise, we are in the process of doing kaduke legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u234	Mr President, this is an improvement in the fight against fraud for the European Union's own revenue. We all agreed on that. It has to be done. The amendment now tabled by the N-VA colleague is the continuation of an amendment which was already voted on on his initiative in committee. That amendment was already a double-edged sword, while we had been assured by the Minister that it was a correct transposition of the spirit of the directive. On the one hand, it is an increase in joint and several liability. On the other hand, there is a softening of the burden of inciting or inciting what is to be punished in the spirit of the directive will no longer be penalised if it is not implemented by a third party. We have already had that discussion. This is, of course, continued in the new amendment. However, as Mr D'Haese said: (...) It is a two-edged sword and we will also have to look at the mitigating circumstances technically. I understand from the Minister and the Council of State that the directive has been correctly transposed. So I would not start working on this at the end, when we do not know exactly how to do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u235	I would like to conclude the debate. We are not going to re-examine the committee debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u236	Ladies and gentlemen, you are wrong and you will see the consequences. I'm just warning you. We have examined this very thoroughly. Confrater D'Haese has already mentioned it; when the facts as laid down in Article 73, third paragraph, are committed in a criminal organisation, for the third or fourth time, the same penalty is always imposed. Then there will be no increase. Remember that. It will be in the report. You're responsible for that. You actually want to encourage the recidivism. That's one point. Secondly, when you refer to the fact that the Council of State had no comments, you are mistaken. However, there was a comment from the Council of State that the attempt was not included in the initial draft law. They were then included in Article 73novies, but they forgot to apply the first book of the Criminal Code to that article and also to Article 73i. My amendment merely seeks to rectify it. No more, no less. However, if you do not agree with that, you agree that the repetition should not be more severely punished in this law. Then blame us for not taking tax fraud seriously. I believe that by not adopting this amendment you are making that mistake.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u237	Colleagues, I believe we have heard everyone. We are still in the general discussion, but I think I can now consider it closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u238	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u239	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (706/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (706/4) The bill has 13 articles. The draft law has 13 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u240	Annex V.Part 2.124 • 2............................................................................................................................................................ Annex V.Part 2.124 • 3................................................................................................................................................................ Annex V.Part 2.124 • 4............................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u241	Decision of the article-by-article discussion: Réservés: Amendments and Articles 11 to 13.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u242	Article adopted by article: les articles 1 to 10.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u243	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles reserved, as well as on the whole, will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the articles that have been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u244	Proposals submitted by: Proposals tabled by: - 773: Stefaan Van Hecke, Zakia Khattabi, Katja Gabriels, Goedele Liekens, Khalil Aouasti, Philippe Goffin, Sophie Rohonyi, John Crombez, Servais Verherstraeten, Valerie Van Peel John Crombez.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u245	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u246	Mr President, at this late hour I would normally be reasonably expected to refer to the written report, but there is not yet. Since it is a legislative proposal which is dealt with at high urgency, I will therefore report very briefly. On 14 November, the Chamber decided that sexual offences committed against minors should be remanded. This was done by amending Articles 21 and 21a of the previous Title of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The intention of the law, that sexual offences committed against minors can no longer be allowed to lapse, was safeguarded as a principle. The law adopted fourteen days ago has a very undesirable effect because of an important omission in the legislation, namely by not linking the limitation periods for minors to the limitation periods applicable to adults. After all, the most serious sexual crime, which results in rape with death, committed on adulthood, is no longer a matter of 15 years old, but of 10 years old. In order to remedy this and bring the limitation period back to 15 years, a proposal has been put forward by Mr Van Hecke. That proposal was unanimously adopted in committee and we would ask that it be adopted as Chamberly as possible today in order to avoid all practical problems. A direct amendment of Article 21 has been technically chosen. This gives the advantage that the repair law can be published jointly with the initial law and that there will therefore be no negative impact on practice. I would like to thank the services of justice and all the members of the committee who have contributed to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u247	Thank you, Mr D'Haese, for the report. Mr Van Hecke, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u248	Mr President, I can be very brief, because the oral report was very complete and everyone knows the problem in the meantime. In fact, I can only refer to the already known proverb: haste and urgency is rarely good.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u249	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u250	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (773/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (773/4) The Court of Justice of the European Communities decided to stay proceedings before the Court of Justice of the European Communities for a preliminary ruling under Article 21 of the preceding Title of the Code of Criminal Procedure.' The title in Dutch was amended by the Committee to amend Article 21 of the previous title of the Code of Criminal Procedure." The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u251	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u252	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 18 July 2019, an appeal for candidates was published in the Belgian Monitor of 29 July 2019 for the terms of office of Federal Ombudsman (1 F + 1 N). In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 18 July 2019, a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 29 July 2019 for the mandates of the Federal Ombudsman/woman (1 N + 1 F).
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u253	Francophone applicants:
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u254	- Mr. Philippe Vande Castele, lawyer at the Antwerp Bar French-speaking candidates:
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u255	French-speaking candidate:
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u256	French-speaking candidate:
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u257	Dutch-speaking applicants:
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u258	Dutch-speaking candidates:
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u259	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 November 2019, I propose that you transmit to the political groups the curriculum vitae of candidates who meet the required levels of language proficiency. The candidates will be heard in the Petitions Committee. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 27 November 2019, I propose that the CVs of candidates who can demonstrate the language skills requested be provided to the political groups. The candidates will be heard in the Petitions Committee. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u260	The Government requested urgency in accordance with Article 51 of the Regulation when introducing the draft law transposing Council Directive (EU) 2018/822 of 25 May 2018 amending Directive 2011/16/EU as regards automatic and mandatory exchange of information in the tax field in relation to cross-border reporting arrangements, No 791/1. The Government requested the urgency statement pursuant to Article 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the draft law transposing Council Directive (EU) 2018/822 of 25 May 2018 amending Directive 2011/7/EU as regards mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation relating to obliged cross-border arrangements, No. 791/1. The government also requested urgency in accordance with Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when the bill on various tax provisions was tabled, establishing a commission for the recognition of specialized training on customs and excise regulations in Belgium and relating to the Royal Mint Theatre and the National Orchestra of Belgium, No. 792/1. The Government also asked for an urgent declaration of urgency pursuant to Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure, when the draft bill on various tax provisions was submitted, setting up a committee for the recognition of specialized training courses relating to the regulation of customs and excise duties in Belgium and the Koninklijke Muntschouwburg and the National Orchestra of Belgium, No. 792/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u261	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are two requests for urgency. The first concerns the amendment of the Law of 22 December 2009 on the general system of excise duties and the transposition of Directive 2019/475. The reason is that this transposition should take place before 1 January 2020. A second question of urgency concerns the draft law transposing Council Directive 2018/822 of 25 May 2018 amending Directive 2011/16/EU as regards the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation with regard to obliged cross-border arrangements. The justification is that this transposition must be carried out by 31 December of this year at the latest.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u262	I propose that we take a decision on these requests. I would suggest that we give an opinion on these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u263	You have taken note of the list of proposals that have been requested for consideration in the last agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I shall consider it to be taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider it accepted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? (No) It is thus decided. I also propose that you take into account and refer to the committee responsible: the motion for a resolution (Mr Thierry Warmoes and Mrs Greet Daems) calling for the release of the indexation of the annual amounts for the Gas and Electricity Fund, calling for a revision of both the height and the mechanism for indexing these amounts and for a revision of the method of financing the Fund, No 822/1. I also propose that you consider and send to the committee responsible: the motion for a resolution (Mr Thierry Warmoes and Mrs Greet Daems) to re-adapt the annual financing granted to the Gas and Electricity Fund to the index and to increase those amounts, to adjust the indexation mechanism and to adjust the method of financing that Fund, No. 822/1. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u264	Mr President, I would like to ask the Chamber to accept the urgency with regard to the legislative proposal No. 803/1. It's a bill containing various provisions. It is an entry into force and a postponement. The practical organisation is not yet ready, which could lead to legal uncertainty. On the other hand, it proposes a slightly longer transitional period. Some of these legal adjustments should enter into force before the end of the year. Hence my request for urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u265	I propose that we take a decision on this request. I would suggest that we speak on this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u266	Unanimity. It is a good moment for you, Mr Verherstraeten.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u267	Vote on Amendment No 8 from Darya Safai cs on requests 1 and 2. (493/8) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Darya Safai cs to applications 1 and 2. (493/8) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / Fin du vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[39]] Yes No. [[80]] No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 129 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u268	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes [[80]] Yes No. 48 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (493/9) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (493/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u269	Vote on Amendment No 5, Goedele Liekens, in recital H. (692.5) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Goedele Liekens in recital H. (692/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes [[41]] Yes No. 51 No Abstentions 36 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 6 by Goedele Liekkens in recital N. (692.5) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Goedele Liekens to Recital N. (692/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u270	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 7 from Goedele Liekkens to the omission of request 5. (692/5) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Goedele Liekens to delete the request 5. (692.5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes [[40]] Yes No. 69 No Abstentions 18 Abstensions Total 127 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Monsieur De Maegd?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u271	Mr President, I just want to change my vote. I was wrong. I vote in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u272	Mr. Bogaert?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u273	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u274	Mr Bogaert, did you vote like your group? Is it noted, Mr. Registrar? If we were to be more attentive, we would be a little less mistaken. Colleague De Roover?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u275	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u276	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u277	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 72 Yes No. [[17]] No Abstentions 40 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (692/6) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (6926) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u278	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes 129 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 129 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (621/4) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (621/4)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u279	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 116 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 12 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (443/4) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (443/4) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u280	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u281	Mr President, we believe that Turkey cannot become a member of the European Union for longer than today, given a number of well-known factors. But in other circumstances, too, it is an absolute no-go for us. That might suggest that we would support the Flemish Members with their motion for a resolution, but we will not, we will abstain. We are abstaining because our colleagues on the right have taken advantage of the opportunity to let the blood crawl where it cannot go and to develop a discourse in the decision-making area in such a way that the success of their proposal is impossible, as they knew in advance. They merely wanted to put forward a statement, knowing that in the decision-making part they put forward a series of arguments that other parties can invoke in order not to support the proposal. We have already said at the committee meeting that, unfortunately, it is a missed opportunity, because I repeat that in our view Turkey cannot become a member of the European Union under any circumstances.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u282	Mr President, I have just referred to the fact that the majority of the motion for a resolution, according to the members of the N-VA, was not written diplomatically enough. Mr De Roover, you were not present during that discussion. So you would have known what I repeated, namely that I asked in committee what exactly were the passages, what exactly was not written diplomatically enough and where we were supposed to have gone over the line. I did not get any clarity on that. You could have amended it if you had been serious enough to support the motion for a resolution. I conclude from this that it is an easy typical trick not to approve a proposal from the Flemish Interest. That's what we're used to in the meantime. Mr Verherstraeten, I certainly didn't mean to offend you this time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u283	Mr Verherstraeten asks for the floor for a personal statement? It's not that. In any case, you must keep to your explanation of vote. The debate will not be reopened.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u284	Mr President, I would like to draw Members' attention to the fact that this is not a statement. I have just referred to all the arguments. There is nothing in it that we do not support or which you cannot even support, Mr De Roover. So if you are consistent with your words and for once aligning your voting behaviour with them, you can only support the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u285	Start of voting / Start of the vote. Did everyone vote and check their vote? / Did everyone vote and check their voices? End of voting / End of vote. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u286	Yes 89 Yes Non 17 No. Abstensions 22 Abstentions Total 128 Total Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Bill No. 276/1 is therefore rejected. Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The Bill No. 276/1 was therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u287	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 100 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 28 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (590/6) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (590/6) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u288	Vote on Amendment No 2 by Wim Van der Donkt on article 11. (706/5) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Wim Van der Donckt to Article 11. (706/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes [[39]] Yes No. 62 No Abstentions 27 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 11 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 11 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 3 by Wim Van der Donkt to omit Article 12. (706/5) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Wim Van der Donckt to delete Article 12. (706/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u289	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 12 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 12 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 4 by Wim Van der Donkt to omit Article 13. (706/5) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Wim Van der Donckt to delete Article 13. (706/5) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u290	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 13 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 13 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u291	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u292	Mr President, we are going to abstain. Not because we are bad losers, because our amendments did not succeed, but because we believe that, despite our support for the spirit of the draft law, the transposition of the directive into Belgian law is a quadruple.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u293	Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 88 Yes No. [[17]] No Abstentions 22 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (706/6) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (706/6) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u294	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 126 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (773/5) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (773/5)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-28-55-plenair-ip015x.u295	We must approve the agenda for the next sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for the next sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, December 5, 2019 at 2:15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 5 December 2019 at 2.15 p.m.
