ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1071x.u1	Colleagues, I suggest that we begin our work. Minister Kris Peeters has already introduced and explained the artist's statute here, not yet, Mrs De Block. I suggest that you give some preliminary consideration, Madam Secretary. Then there are another five questions that are still pending and can be put to the two ministers. The other Members may then take part in the debate. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1071x.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Chamber, it has had some feet in the earth before we got together here. We can finally discuss the status of artists. In our country special rules apply to artists in the field of social security. The Committee on Artists plays a specific role in this. Under the general rule, social security contributions are subject to recovery if a contract of employment is binding. To this end, three elements are needed: salary, benefits and authority. For artists, the ONSS law provides a specific rule in its Article 1bis, i.e. persons who provide services or produce works of an artistic nature for payment, on behalf of a principal, natural or legal person, are also subject to the application of the ONSS law, even if there is no question of authority. In this case, the payer is considered to be an employer and is required to comply with all obligations of an employer, i.e. Dimona declaration, Dmfa declaration, payment of contributions and identification with the ONSS. Once there is artistic achievement, one can be subject to the scope of the RSZ law. The artistic nature of the achievements or works must be attested by means of an artist's visa issued by the Artists Committee. The term "artistic performance" is defined in law as follows: "the creation and/or performance or interpretation of artistic oeuvres in the audiovisual and visual arts, in music, literature, spectacle, theatre and choreography." It is the Artists Committee that interprets and applies this definition in the case of an application based on the methodology laid down in its domestic rules. This also allows the concept of "artistic performance" to evolve over time. There is also a specific regime explicitly governing artists who receive only a small allowance for their performances or works, i.e. no more than EUR 100 per day. They must not be reported to the ONSS because it is considered an allowance. This amount is indexed annually and this specific scheme is limited to 30 days per calendar year. In order to benefit from this regime, the artist must have an Artist card issued also by the Artists Commission. Finally, an artist who does not wish to suspect submission to the RSZ may have his or her self-employed status established by the Artists Committee by means of a self-employed declaration. The Committee on Artists has been in existence since 2003 and had the task of establishing whether artists are employees or self-employed. As of 2014, with the introduction of Article 1a, the Artists Committee was empowered to deliver artist cards and... visas, and to make self-employed declarations. However, the regulatory texts to make the committee work effectively were missing. For example, there was no secretariat, no budget and no internal rules. In practice, therefore, no artist's visas or maps were delivered. There were a lot of requests, so there was a big backlog. When I took up my position in Social Affairs, I faced this problem. So I took the necessary initiatives to reactivate the artists' commission. Since 2016, the artist commission has been operational again and has begun to close the backlog. Therefore, ONEM, ONSS, INASTI, the social partners, the arts sector and the Communities are represented on this committee. It consists of a French-speaking room and a Dutch-speaking room. The Commission's hearings show that the functioning of the artists' commission is generally positively appreciated and that the new composition represents an improvement over the previous one. The arts sector and the Communities are closely linked. In the meantime, the delay in applications has been caught up. During the hearings in this committee several times there was a call for digitisation of the documents provided by the Artists Committee. This would indeed be a step forward because it would reduce the administrative burden on artists and also make possible the detection of possible fraud. This recommendation was taken to heart. I commissioned the development of a digital application for artists. I said this last week in this committee, Mr President, in response to a question you asked yourself. The application Artist@work is based on the already existing Student@work and was created by the company Smals, in collaboration with the FPS Social Security. The digital application for artists will consist of two components: an information component and an application for the application of the artist card, the artist visa and the declaration of independent activity. Extension requests and subsequent requests for the addition of activities can also be made via this platform. Artists who have received a positive response to their request for an artist card will then be able to introduce their performances into this platform. It will also provide an overview of the services provided and the benefits received to ensure that the statutory ceiling is not exceeded. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that Artist@work will help to reduce the administrative burden on artists. In this way they can concentrate on their main task, be an artist, be creative and create art. Thank you all for your attention for this brief introduction.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1071x.u3	I propose that we have a debate on this with all our colleagues later, but perhaps we can have the oral questions first. Mrs. Schlitz is not here. Her question No. 27312 expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1071x.u4	Mr President, I thought these issues would be dealt with more during the exchange of views, since that was what had been planned. These are topics that have been postponed as they progressed. So I am not going to limit myself to my questions. Mr. Minister, I'll start with a little bit of a mouth. If you remember correctly, it was on June 13 that the minister presented his note. In that context, an exchange of views had been planned. It has been postponed five or six times. We have still not had this exchange of views in this committee. I imagine this is today's exchange of views, when the purpose of this kind of debate and the minister's note was to change the status of artists. We are on the eve of the elections. I'm afraid we have nothing to wait for. However, I would like to have this exchange of views. If I may, I will not stick to the questions asked, but I will address the whole debate that has been going on for some time now. I can only regret it, Mr. President. It is felt that artists are not at all taken into consideration by this government, as well as creation. If you have delayed from June 13 to March, until the eve of more elections, it means that nothing more will be done by your government with regard to these points raised throughout the last few years. Mrs. De Block, I've never had contact with you. This is the presentation made by the Minister of Employment. So I am speaking for Minister Peeters. He came alone, you were absent at that time. Following your presentation, many hearings took place as you said, Minister. These have been very rich, but have demonstrated before the commission all the fears of artists as to their status, future and prospects. Recently in Le Soir, twelve claims for a true status of the artist were put on the table. Read them! Some proposals are very interesting. It is true that these hearings, Minister, have highlighted the difficulties of artists in obtaining a clear and lasting status, which guarantees effective and dignified social protection, since this is the objective here. After the famous interpretative note of the ONEM around which the debate took place in 2011 in Parliament, the trains of recognition of the contract-programme in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation and the recent circular of the ONEM concerning the rule of stamp, it is now clear that the status of artist must be rethought in a global way to let the creation express itself. Unfortunately, this has not been done by this government, despite concrete proposals that have been made by various federations of artists, in particular by Dutch-speaking actors (of Acteursgilde). These proposals have not been taken up. The question of access to artist status is essential for young people, especially those who want to start as artists. Today, they must prove 312 days of employment during the 21 months preceding the application. You know the rules, minister. Even with the stamp rule, it's extremely difficult. They're all saying it. I think it's recognized. They also added that even Leonardo Di Caprio, who does not need it, could not meet these conditions today. Minister, in relation to these remarks, we have not heard anything from you. The only solution you put on the table in your June proposal was the self-employed person's trail. This idea raises more questions than it provides answers. We had already asked you a whole series of questions about this notion of self-employed workers. This is, above all, like a new status to further weaken employees. This status as a self-employed person is not at all demanded by artists. They are in fact unanimous against. They do not share your notion of self-employment at all. If you heard what they...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1071x.u5	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1071x.u6	No, it's not us who say it! These are the federations. I think that a reform of the artist's status must be done with them and for them. I don't think you've worked that way. In any case, there will be no new status under this legislature. It's way too late. I don't know who will be in the next government, we'll see about it. For the future, it is absolutely necessary to work with the artistic sector in its entirety, although it is sometimes very complicated to obtain a unanimous position on their part.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1071x.u7	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1071x.u8	And the social partners, yes, but the social partners do not represent all the artists. It's more complicated than that. We agree. [[But it's not because it's complicated that you have to...]] Minister, it's not because you're joking about your PIA that you're going to shove about the artists and comment on all my sentences. We are discussing the status of the artist. If we had worked in June and perhaps if you had worked there from the beginning of the legislature, we would not be there on the eve of the elections to talk about the status of artist. I'm just asking you to listen to me and I'll listen to your answers. Mr President, I don't know what he has, but the minister seems to have had a lot of coffee this morning. Minister, I have a series of questions. In your June presentation, what do you mean by the term "artist". Does this word include technicians, workers in sectors other than the performing arts, such as comics, plastic arts, literature, etc.- Is that what you're saying? What do you mean by "specific way of working"? Why not talk about intermittance, which is the specificity inherent in the work of artists and technicians. That's the way it is, we know it! Will the status of the worker be reserved exclusively for the intermittents of the professions of creation or extended to other sectors of activity? If the self-employed person is not a third status – that's what you just said! –, where do you find him? I don't understand what he is. Do you consider a self-employed person to be a worker who is engaged exclusively under contract with a job, which is not the case with the intermittents in the trades? Do you therefore wish to distinguish between the social status of workers in the labour force and the status of those in the labour force? What about your great status, which is neither an autonomous status nor a different status? What are the differences between the wage-earner and the self-employed? Will the self-employed worker be under the authority of an employer? What social protection for self-employed workers? Mr. Chair, please excuse the number of my questions, but they are legitimate in relation to the Minister's presentation. What adjustments will be made to the labour law, particularly on the question of working time? In short, will this status be less well protected than that of the employee while the employer and the characteristic elements of the employment relationship are present? If there is no difference with the status of the employee, since you state that this is not another status, what is the value of this status? Finally, what will be put in place to avoid creating a new form of competition and to cannibalize the status of salaried workers? I also have a more specific question. You may know that, but there are advisory bodies in the French Community, which relate to the performing arts, the plastic arts, etc. The Minister plans to include creators under the status – for the time being, non-existent – of an artist. With this in mind, they will receive taxable attendance allowances. The result will then be cumulation with the benefits and, consequently, bad tax surprises for the unemployed under or without status. Therefore, we ask you to relax the social and tax rules for artists who work alongside management activities in an ASBL or an advisory body. Finally, an article in L'Écho at the beginning of the month referred to the cumulation between artistic income and unemployment benefits. Many artists – and not least – have asked you to put an end to an urgent situation that weakens the creation in Belgium, namely the prohibition of cumulating unemployment benefits and copyrights beyond a certain amount. You know what I'm talking about? What is the current rule? If an artist earns more than €4,361.76 net per year – taxable – of copyright, he or she must repay part of his or her unemployment benefit, while his or her copyright comes from works designed under a contract of employment. We ask you to repeal this provision and have tabled a bill to this effect - to help you in your work - that we have opened for signature. I would also like to thank Défi and the CDH for co-signing our bill, which remains open to other signatures. If you could include such a measure in your assessment – very meagre, minister – in terms of artist status, this would already be a significant first step. The text is on the table. It is enough to abolish this rule of cumulation, as all artists ask. It would therefore be a step forward under this legislature. So I'd like to know what you think.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1071x.u9	Mr President, Madam Minister, Mr Minister, as we know, the regulation concerning the status of artist in Belgium is of considerable complexity. Everything is organised around pay at work, which gives creative professions the opportunity to claim a social status. It was the regulation of this job remuneration that was the subject of an interpretative note from the ONEM in autumn 2017, which severely restricted the legislation, making access to the status much more difficult. Through this initiative, the ONEM also short-circuited social dialogue. The reaction of the artistic world has not been delayed since the social partners have asked the minister to unlock the situation as soon as possible. You have assigned a working group to define a number of criteria, which should serve as the basis for the ONEM to process files as part of the application of the stamp rule. In the last committee, you explained the six criteria identified and you said that you had instructed the social partners to translate these proposals into collective labour agreements, in order to ensure the legal certainty of the artists. What is the status of this work? In the same committee, you referred to the concept of "self-employed worker". You said that you were examining "whether the self-employed person's trail could be the ideal solution for their specific way of working". It's far from safe! You had already spoken about your desire to modernize the artist's status. Does this concept of self-employed worker meet this objective? With the explanation given in committee, it is difficult to take full measure of the concept. Can you explain in more detail what this concept of "self-employed" involves? Where does this idea come from? Have you ever submitted this idea to the social partners? What was their position? In consultation with the social partners, you have also announced pilot projects or experiments related to the organisation of artists' work. Can you give us more information on the framework, scope, objectives and timing of these experiments? What budget is planned? Will representatives of the sector be involved in the supervision, monitoring and evaluation of projects? In the longer term, how can cultural workers be given the right to a full social status, which fully supports artistic creation? In the longer term, various unions have indicated that they want to conclude collective labour agreements for all workers in the cultural and artistic sector, including support and support functions (technicians, cameramen, etc.).). What is your position on this proposal? Have you ever had any exchanges with the sector and the social partners on this subject? What measures have you taken to prevent the status of artist from being used and diverted to exploit artists more and more harshly?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1071x.u10	Are there any other Members who would like to take the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1071x.u11	I have two brief points. During the hearing it was shown that there are a number of pain points in the statute. For example, it is difficult to get into the statute. Once you are in the statute, it is very easy to stay in it. There are a number of ideas to make the entry and exit of the statute more dynamic. Can you say a little more about this or do you have any suggestions or ideas on this matter to resolve it? Then I come to my second point. During one of these hearings, the authors' guild United Artists made a number of reform proposals. They were very concrete proposals that they presented on a slide. It is very difficult to assess its feasibility. My question is whether you have already asked the services to examine the impact of these proposals, including whether this would mean savings or a cost in the financial field. Actually, that wasn't clear at the hearing. The only way to find out is to have that checked through the services.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1071x.u12	Madam and Mr Ministers, we are at the end of the legislature, but this remains a full and complete project that will have to be reopened under the next legislature. I'd like to take a look at the situation to see if we can move on to one or the other. One of the fundamental questions is whether we want the artist to have access to a status and above all to the maintenance of that status despite a complex and specific reality. In addition, do we want to have specific protection for artists and do we want to take into account this very specific reality, through the intermittentness and sometimes more artistic and sometimes more technical activity of the artist? I have a few questions for you. There have been several contacts and discussions with the social partners. We can question the composition of the commission. This is one of the first points I wanted to highlight: the composition of the artists' commission should evolve to better reflect the pluralistic dynamics of artists. At the same time, it is essential to develop a cross-sectional vision. You are two ministers to be present today. There is obviously the ONEM component, there is the social component, but there is also the tax status of artists and intermittents. There is also the whole link between social status, possible unemployment benefits and control at the level of federated entities. What are the measures that are now transversal at the federal government level and between the federal and federated entities? You mentioned, Mr. Minister, the famous third statute. At that time, you recalled that you had to execute a contract under authority, by mutual agreement, with objectives. This contract, you said, must have been related to the availability chosen. You did a simulation with a full-time and part-time job. Are you a little further away today? This is from June 2018. So it's been nine months. Are things now more specific? Have you been able to move forward on the ONEM thresholds for initial status and for maintaining status? With young artists, the question of access to the initial status of artist arises with the famous existing rules which, admittedly, are not simple. How flexible can this be? Have you made any progress in this regard in the last nine months? On the INAMI status, there is health care insurance, but there is also access to benefits insurance (maternity, incapacity for work). It is true that access to compensation insurance is much more restrictive than access to health care insurance, which is, for its part, more universal. There is the rule of internships, etc. Above all, there is no rule equivalent to the stamp rule which is applied at ONEM in the case of sickness and disability insurance. Would it not be appropriate to have a form of gathering rules giving rise to a correct coverage of the various aspects for artists? I was just asking the question of whether or not we wanted specific protection for artists. This exists in Belgium for other types of artists, i.e. great athletes who enjoy a special status. Could this type of status be considered for artists, even if it had to be a bit different since the reality is obviously different and plural? Without going into the details of the rules, could there be ways of having a particular consideration somewhat similar to that provided for under the sportsman's statute? You're laughing at me, Madam Minister. Is there a problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1071x.u13	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1071x.u14	I don't know what you're thinking, but it's not a big deal. As far as the cumulation of copyright and unemployment are concerned, I will not repeat what Mrs Lalieux has already said. However, this could bring together quite broadly. This is about an important but also very concrete measure that could be implemented almost immediately. Is there an opening of the government or at least other colleagues from different parties to make this progress before the end of this legislature? What is your position as Minister of Employment? Given the lack of clear progress for artists for a number of years, this could give a positive signal to those involved. Finally, Madam Minister, you announced the famous Artist at Work app. I do not see very well where we are today, since it has been announced for a long time. Unless I'm mistaken, I don't think it's really available to artists. If my information is correct, the National Labour Council has taken a positive position on this point. Where are we today? Are the responses sufficient and adequate on this component? It should be borne in mind that this is only a small administrative aid, but that the transversality, which I mentioned earlier, between the various aspects, whether federal, from the ONEM, fiscal, social, but also from the federated entities, is important. It seems to me that in the multiple institutional layers of our country, the responsibility of political power towards artists, but also towards others, is to create a real cross-cutting point of support, which starts from the reality of people rather than from the institutional or political reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1071x.u15	Mr. Chair, Minister, Mr.Minister, I am taking this intervention a little bit in flight, as I have not had a chance to listen to what you have outlined. My speech will be brief. I would like to make two comments. First of all, we all know that the situation of artists is not necessarily enviable. She's tough. Various problems arise, including a very concrete one against which we have tabled a bill. This concerns the cumulation between unemployment benefits and copyright income / [[neighbouring rights.]] At present, the ONEM obliges artists to repay part of their unemployment benefits in case of cumulation, since the net income they derive from their activity exceeds 4 446 euros annually, if my information is correct. The principle of having to repay is discriminatory in that another unemployed person who benefits from movable or immovable income, e.g. through stock options which he would hold from an old job, can accumulate these income with his unemployment benefit. This already raises a question of discrimination. Moreover, this principle also does not correspond to the reality of the collection of copyrights and related rights, particularly in the case of exploitation licences negotiated by collective societies, on behalf of the artist, with a foreign country where the payment of rights takes place, for example, every three years. To that end, we have tabled a bill that, unfortunately, cannot be considered in this Parliament. It's a case you might be able to move on with now, through your relationship with the ONEM. Maybe you can tell me more today. The second point I wanted to bring to your attention is that of an experience that has been carried out in the Netherlands, the Arbeidsmarktagenda. As part of the exploration of the local Raad voor Cultuur, it has been noted that the situation of artists in the labour market is worrying. Many jobs have disappeared. Pay is very low. Despite this situation, many people are active in this sector. The President of the Economic and Social Council therefore acknowledged that this was a particular sector. The values created do not always benefit workers. All this led to the operator Kunsten '92 drawing up an agenda that went beyond the different disciplines and was based on three questions. What needs to be done to improve the position of these workers? What can the sector itself do? What can the public sector do? As a result, a meeting schedule was initiated by Kunsten '92 and an independent working group was set up. It is currently examining the position of artists in the labour market. New issues enrich the agenda of this working group, and the sector has taken the initiative of several proposals. The political world has understood the interest of the process and has freed up financial resources to continue in this direction. Discussions will continue until 2023. Several successes can already be highlighted. A code of good practice has been adopted and has been adopted by other sectors. The Minister of Culture has made the position of artists in the labour market a priority by targeting their remuneration, in particular by allowing tariff agreements. A social dialogue has been promised by the Minister to strengthen the position of the sector. Minister, Minister, are you aware of this initiative? Would it seem relevant to you in Belgium in order to set up a dialogue between all disciplines, artists in a wide variety of fields but not always speaking to each other? With an operational agenda, such a dialogue could perhaps be useful and serve to separate status issues. Should we create a specific status or rather change the elements of the current status? Finally, as regards the experience of the Netherlands, an intermediate status was created there, the ZZP status. I can't give you any more memory of the acronym but I could do it if necessary. This status means "self-employed without staff". It is intended for artists. They used it, but it did not put an end to the precarious situation they are facing. Perhaps it would be interesting to pay attention to this when we reflect here on the development of a new status or measures, so as not to duplicate the mistakes experienced there.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1071x.u16	Perhaps there are still some reservations. It is a good thing that an electronic platform for this small fee scheme is being implemented in the short term. That is a good thing. With regard to the interpretative note of the RVA, this has been provisionally resolved. The social partners still had some work to do in this area. The question is, therefore, what is the state of play in the drafting of collective agreements in the various joint committees as regards the definition and criteria for determining the wage of the job? Mr Spooren has pointed out the problems of new artists who find it difficult to enter the system because of the strict conditions. Once they are in the system, they stay in the system very easily. Shouldn't both grow a little closer together? Should it not, on the one hand, be made stricter to stay in the system and, on the other hand, should it not be made easier to get into the system? The opinion of the National Labour Council states that a classic contract of employment must be carried out if all the conditions for a classic contract of employment are to be met. This is self-evident, but it is difficult to adequately control and enforce it. The NAR therefore proposes to impose conditions on the employer to allow someone to work in accordance with Article 1a. The employer should also be recognised through the RSZ. If an employer makes someone work unjustly through Article 1a, he should also be sanctioned for this. The question is whether this can reduce the number of abuses and encourage employers to conclude full employment contracts. Is it possible and desirable to set a minimum remuneration per sector and to register it as a condition for employment under Article 1a? Then there is the question of the statute itself. This is a statute for the social security of workers, which is paid for with solidarity from this social security system. The question arises as to whether we should not reflect on a statute that is more in line with the self-employed status, possibly evolving towards an adapted statute for self-employed persons in secondary employment. In doing so, access can be simplified, for example by not imposing a requirement to work half-time, and yet a minimum set-up of social rights may be possible, in exchange for paying contributions. In fact, this problem does not arise only with the artists. We need to think about whether we should not turn this additional profession into a more comprehensive system, with minimum social rights being built up. Many people with a secondary profession do not understand that they have to pay, but do not build up rights. I'd like to add one last element. For the purpose of determining unemployment benefit, a cumulative rule is used, which converts earned earnings into days and for which no benefit can be obtained. According to the sector, the daily allowance of EUR 90.15 is not in line with wages, which would mean that the artist would have to turn in too many days in this system. The question is whether we should not come up with another system to determine how much one can accumulate with the unemployment allowance, regardless of whether it is EUR 90.15 too little or too much. Shouldn't we evolve into another cumulation system?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1071x.u17	I see that Mrs Lalieux is no longer here, Mr President, but for the report I shall...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1071x.u18	Nor does Mr Van Hees.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1071x.u19	The employees are here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1071x.u20	The Artists' Committee and the RVA sometimes use the concept of "artistic performance" differently, which indeed leads to legal uncertainty for some artists. What can be done about it? It would indeed be a good thing if all the services concerned were to use the same definition of "artistic performance," because now there is a great deal of dissatisfaction and confusion among the artists. In the event of an artist's visa, the RVA does follow the interpretation of the Artists Committee. Moreover, the RVA is also represented on the Committee on Artists. The way in which the Artists Committee interprets the concept of "artistic performance" is a good way, because it allows evolution. This is not the case when you work with fixed lists. There's still work to be done. What is the state of play in the development of Artist@work? The part concerning the application is launched in two phases. In the first phase, the platform will be operational for the application of the artist's card and the completion of the performance overview by the artist. It will then also be operational for visa applications. The second phase will start in May or June, the first within a few weeks. In the second phase, applications for certificates of independence and renewal may also be submitted. Mrs. Lalieux asked what an "artist" is. Mrs Fonck raised the same point. Who can be called "artist"? Not everyone, of course. There are criteria to be met. Not everyone who thinks they're artists is. We needed objective criteria to know if anyone could call themselves "artist." Article 1a is useful when an artist and a client cannot conclude a contract of employment and there is no authority. This allows small artists, who have too little income to be self-employed in a viable way, to have a full social status. If this arrangement did not exist, many fewer people would have the status of artist. There are three ways of achieving social protection. Either one is an employee and then there is authority. In the case of Article 1a, there is no authority. In other words, they are self-employed. There is always protection and a social status. This gives a lot of freedom to choose what one wants to do as an artist, how one wants to work. We can also change the statute at some point and still enjoy social protection. The most important thing is that there is social protection. As far as Mrs Waterschoot's proposal is concerned, the ZZP (zelfstandige zonder personeel) do not have social security contributions but do not have protection either. They are not protected from illness or disability and have no pension rights. This is not an example to follow because it can bring problems. It has also been asked whether there can be no comparison with the top sports statute, but of course there are other criteria to this. One must, among other things, be connected to a league. It's just the happy few who have a top sports status. If one looks at how many people in Belgium have applied for cards in 2017, we see that 314 visas were granted by the French-speaking room and 63 visas by the Dutch-speaking room. On the French-speaking side there are also more umbrella associations that encourage artists to apply for a visa. As far as artists' cards are concerned, the number on the Dutch side is 7 033 cards and 5 093 cards on the French side. The rooms work well: we had to make a catch-up there, but it arrived soon. The Committee on Artists also has a different composition depending on whether it is the Dutch or French Chamber. It was thus extended: earlier it was made up of the RSZ and the RSVZ, now the RVA and the respective Communities are also included, as well as three representatives, in particular of the interprofessional trade unions, employers' organisations and the artistic sector. So they are certainly involved, since someone is on the committee for them. The enlargement and the other composition of the committee offer added value. The committee is thus well-balanced, with input from all the departments concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1071x.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen,chers collégues, allow me to supplement my colleague's reply. In general, I would like to say first of all that artists are very valuable in our society. We have therefore organised specific regulations for artists. The concern is that in this regulation we are also fair to non-artists who, for example, become unemployed or benefit from benefits. It is therefore a search for the right balance between the special arrangements for artists. Today there are also representatives of the RVA who approach this issue with the same attitude. With respect for the specific situation and for what has already been worked out, they are trying to apply the rules. It has already been mentioned that there was a major unrest in the autumn of 2017, a concern within the artistic sector about the interpretation and application of the regulation of the statute of artists by the National Employment Service, the RVA. Since an alarm bell has also been set off from this Committee on Social Affairs, we have taken immediate action. After consultation with all the actors involved, on 24 January 2018, I asked the Chairmen of the Joint Committees in the artistic sector for an opinion on the salary by the end of February. After receiving and analysing this opinion on 30 March 2018, I requested the conversion of the social partners' proposals into a collective labour agreement in order to be able to continue to guarantee the legal certainty of artists. This procedure is ongoing. I have reminded her of her urgency several times. The last reminder was sent to the Chairman of the Joint Committees concerned on 1 March 2019. We have taken action, both with the RVA and with the social partners. A number of points were discussed. On 1 March 2019, I also called for this issue to continue. Some colleagues have asked about the slope of autonomous worker. This piste not only covers artists, but is wider than that. The question is whether this is not the solution for the artists and artists. For the sake of clarity, this is not a new third statute, for which some organisations argue, but it gives workers greater autonomy within the current statute. There are two angles. The status of self-employed workers or the status of employees can be used to provide for a number of specific elements, such as hours. The advantage of the status of workers is, of course, that they already enjoy relatively substantial social protection. An autonomous worker carries out a contract under authority in exchange for a wage and an investment in development opportunities. The objectives and results to be achieved shall be determined by mutual agreement. The contract must also relate to the availability chosen. A choice must indeed be made between assimilation into full-time or part-time employment. On 23 August 2018, a presentation was given to the social partners on the self-employed. They have shown interest and have been invited to submit projects on this topic, with no results for the time being. We have asked the social partners to look at this, but of course they are aware of other concerns and points of discussion, and unfortunately they have not yet moved on and have not yet taken a position. I would like to refer to the exception rule for the artists in the unemployment regulations. That is a very important point. There is a system and they have an exception regime. However, it is important to be careful when asking additional questions about additional exceptions, whether they do not go too far with regard to other groups. For example, there may be a new debate on the justice of unemployment benefits by taking into account the specific elements of artists, for example. This can go too far and lead to new discussions, especially because of the group of the unemployed. So one has to look for a balance. One has to be careful, because if one goes too far, for example on copyright and the like, this can open up other discussions, for example on 'ordinary' unemployed people, who also receive income and in what context a similar reasoning can be followed, with all the consequences. In addition to the exception in the context of the granting of unemployment benefit on the basis of the job wage, artists do indeed have an exception in the context of the degressivity. In order to be able to make use of this exception and thus remain within the first period of degressivity, the artist must, as you know, prove 156 working days in the last 18 months, of which at least 104 days as an artist. This exception may be extended after 12 months if three performances are proven as artists during that period. Following the debates that have taken place, I can tell you that these three achievements, even if one looks at the 'ordinary' unemployed, are a very delicate element. The application of these rules is part of the further analysis of the system and of the long-term solutions. Like Members of this House, I would like to see the group of artists and artists to have the necessary specificity in their application and their own statute, that self-employed worker, in order to develop this further. Moreover, I do not want to end up in a situation in which, because of the accumulation of a number of elements, there is very strong competition on the artists' market, causing many people problems. The fact that artists in Belgium are having a very difficult time by combining a number of elements is actually the basis of the discussion. We have done so in order to move forward with the RVA and the social partners in the short term and to ensure that no massacre would be caused by a stricter interpretation, and to seek a lasting solution that is just for all. There are also proposals from the NAR to allow someone to work under Article 1a. That's under further investigation. A number of matters need to be clarified first, such as criteria and the relationship with the Artists Committee on administrative organisation. In addition, this will mean that a large number of on-the-spot investigations will have to be carried out if such reported performance is to be assessed on the basis of their reality. The discussion on the limitations on the cumulation regime is also based on the rules of admissibility for artists and artists. These cumulative rules are there to compensate for the advantageous method of calculation through the use of the job wage. The job wage of artists can be converted into working days when calculating eligibility to unemployment benefits. It should also be noted that the amount taken into account for the application of the cumulative amount is EUR 90.15. This amount is 50% higher than the amount taken into account for the application of the contract wage, which is EUR 60,10. The amount of the benefit reimbursed according to the contract wage thus gives the employee more days in calculating the eligibility than the same amount when applying the cumulative rule, once one is admitted. These regulations are also analysed in the long-term solutions. On 1 April 2019, an interministerial conference on culture will be held under the chairmanship of Minister Greoli. In preparation for this conference, a meeting was held between the relevant firms on the status of artists and how they should evolve. After the interdepartmental conference of April 1, 2019, this issue will be discussed further. I now come to a number of other elements that have been addressed. Technicians aren't artists. We are, of course, all artists in life in the ground, but that would take us too far. Technicians have their own scheme and benefit scheme, including unemployment benefit, while retaining the amount. So there is no degressivity, as far as the technicians are concerned. As far as the impact of the recoveries is concerned, it is 6.4% of the unemployed. This is 6.4% of the unemployed who are affected by Article 130 on the settlement of cumulations. There are 416 recoveries for 7 304 artists-unemployed. Artists are allowed to perform unpaid work in a non-profit association. If they are on their own management board with seat badges, they, like the other unemployed, have to give up their benefit for those days. This is obvious, because there is concern that justice towards other unemployed people is being monitored very closely. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I also have an overview of everything we have done in this dossier. Whoever says that we have done nothing is either not well informed or ill-intentioned. In both cases, of course, it is not good. I will not go into detail about the complete overview, but just a few points. A consultation with the sector delegates took place on 19 January 2018. On 24 January 2018, we met with the presidents of the relevant Joint Committees. A hearing took place on 30 January 2018 in the Social Affairs Committee. A consultation with the Administrator-General of the RVA took place on 31 January 2018. On 28 February 2018, we received representatives of the Joint Committees. A consultation with the social partners took place on 6 March 2018. On 30 March 2018, we consulted with the sector delegates. On 9 March and 18 April 2018, the Ministers of the Länder were also informed. On 23 August 2018, a presentation was given to the social partners on the autonomous employer. On 1 March 2019, RAPPES were sent to the Chairs of the relevant Joint Committees on the inclusion of criteria for the contract wage in the collective agreement. On 21 March 2019, the preparation of the Interministerial Committee took place with the staff of the relevant regional ministers' cabinets. An Inter-Ministerial Conference on Culture is scheduled for 1 April. I hope that this will be appreciated, possibly not by the members of the committee present, but by those who are the subject and subject of the debate, namely the artists and the organisations that stand up for them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1071x.u22	Minister, Minister, it is good to have meetings and meetings, but the status of artist still does not exist today! Or you deny all the hearings we have conducted, the remarks of certain federations other than the social partners. I agree: this is not an easy logic. If we introduced the cumulation bill, it was because it was a pressing request. It's shameful! You can't cumulate copyright with unemployment benefits – but they come from a period when you had a contract of employment – but you can cumulate everything you want in terms of personal income or other income! These are injustices. You may say the opposite, but to the very clear and ad hoc questions about a global statute, you did not answer during this parliamentary term! Or you have to be deaf and not hear the artists' grievances. I understand that attention must be paid to other job-seekers in the light of the unemployment rules, but that is why we are asking for a real status as an artist. If we continue to pretend that there is no status as an artist because we must not derogate too much from the general status, we will not succeed! I advise you a little reading during your election campaign, Madam and Mr. Ministers. You have twelve ideas to forge a true status as an artist. This means that there is no such document. These range from the powers of Mrs De Block to those of Mr Peeters, not to mention those of the Communities and Regions. This document contains many ideas for the future. It also proves that the status of artist does not exist in our country despite the meetings held. On the other hand, the interpretative circular must indeed be reworked. Again, it was the ONEM that had not respected the spirit of the law. If you speak to the artists individually today, they will let you know their dissatisfaction with the work done over the last five years.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1071x.u23	Minister, thank you for your answers and comments. I understand that you are concerned about equality between the unemployed, which I understand of course, but I would like to support my Socialist colleague's comment: a real status specific to artists would allow you to get rid of this concern for balance. The work of an artist is not the same as that of all these unemployed. This is a special, specific contribution to society. For example, the artist must prepare, create for a long period of time before he can show the product of his work and share it. You speak of equality with the other unemployed, but an unemployed person can accumulate income from movable and immovable property, while an artist cannot accumulate with his or her copyright. I'm going back to that. You gave us the collection figures: 416 artists had to repay the ONEM, because they had received copyrights from a work or work previously done. It seems to me that it's 416 people too much. Overall, this government's policy appears to be at least sluggish, if not defensive. About 15 or 20 meetings are good. Talking is good. But the concrete proposals we are waiting for, and the artists are waiting for them as well. The interdepartmental conference should be welcomed. Just before an election, it's good to get there, but could there have been some before, which could have led to tangible and concrete proposals. We can only hope that the next government will take this case in arms.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1071x.u24	Is anyone else asking for the floor? No? Then we can finish here. We have done useful preparatory work for the next legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1071x.u25	I would like to add one more thing, Mr President. A separate statute for the artists was not requested by the artists themselves, certainly not in the hearings. Mrs Lalieux, you feel that too little has happened, but much more has happened than under my predecessor. From 2014, when the article 1a was introduced, the competence of the Artists Committee to deliver artist cards and visas and to grant certificates of independence was made possible. However, the regulatory texts to make that committee work were not there. We had to pick them up. We had to draw them up as soon as possible. There was no secretariat. There was no budget and there was no domestic regulations. Now it's working. They have social protection. I believe that this is the most important thing. Some things are still difficult, such as unemployment and the desire to combine them with copyright income, that is something we can talk about. However, the child should not be disposed of with the bath water. Mrs Waterschoot, you say that you expect new proposals but for us and for the artists, what exists is good! You propose a status as in the Netherlands but this status does not include any social protection! I don't think this can really help artists. We now have something that works. They have a choice, they have a great freedom. They will have social protection. If any improvements can be made to the next legislature, that is good, but I believe that what is already working is better.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1071x.u26	Mr President, will there be a report on our discussions?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1071x.u27	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1071x.u28	All artists do not ask for a new status. Some want to change what exists and others want to create a new status. That is why I was referring to the experience in the Netherlands, which makes it possible to have a dialogue between different points of view and to draw up proposals. She doesn't seem to have caught your attention, but maybe you'll look at it during the campaign. It is not up to me to decide this question, but it seems to me important to listen to the different parties. Madam Minister, I did not mention ZZP status in the Netherlands to say that this was a solution applicable here. On the contrary, it was because it was up to me that certain ideas in this direction were on the table in Belgium that I wanted to warn you against the inadequacy of this status.
