ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u1	Colleagues, I suggest that we begin our work. First of all, I would like to welcome the ladies and gentlemen of the academics. They will explain the legislative proposal for a climate law, which has since been submitted by all of you. I would also like to welcome the ladies and gentlemen of the senators. As you know, at the Conference of Presidents, we decided to invite the senators to attend this meeting so that they can follow first hand what will emerge from the hearing. They will follow the meeting as a spectator, so that we do not waste time when the file moves to the Senate. That is why the President of the Chamber has contacted the President of the Senate to emphasise that this is not a joint committee but a chamber committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u2	Mr. Chair, I hear your announcement that senators will not be able to speak. Given the scale of the issue and the expertise of senators in this area – as they have mentioned it on several occasions in their work – I would have liked, even out of courtesy, to be allowed to speak here. Besides, they have come many, and I thank them for that. It seems to me in a good tone that we would allow them to ask questions to take advantage of the presence of academics. In this way, they will be able to enrich our work. Therefore, Mr President, I would like you not to sweep this possibility with one side of your hand. In any case, I look forward to the advice of my colleagues in the House on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u3	I heard your proposal. I would, of course, like to point out that there was no choice to set up a joint committee. Nor is it mentioned in the invitation that the senators would take part in the debate. It has been very clearly chosen that we should be able to attend the sitting. That is also why the meeting was not discussed in the Senate Bureau. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber, Members of Parliament may take the floor, as do Members of the European Parliament in a number of cases. As far as I know, that doesn't apply to senators. I am, of course, always prepared to listen to everyone's opinion. The question is whether it was intended to install a joint committee here. I understood very clearly that this was not the case. However, I would like to hear your comments on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u4	Mr President, thank you for inviting us. I speak, of course, as Speaker of the Senate. As Mr Clarinval said, we have been working on this subject for more than two years. Our intention is to participate in this work, to bring our expertise, so that the work may go faster. As you know, since this will be a special law, it will have to go through the Senate. We can, of course, wait until we see what the House will decide and vote, after which it will be passed on to the Senate. We will also see what the Senate decides and will vote. I don't have a lot of illusions about how long it's going to take. Personally, and my colleagues in this chamber share this view, we are very sensitive to this climate issue. We have held symposia and provided information reports. They are of course at your disposal, provided that we are able to participate actively in the work. Our will is that we move forward, and that in this climate issue, which is really very important, we are not wasting time. Personally, I hope, and I would be very happy, that we can set up a joint committee, and that this will be discussed by our respective Bureaux. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u5	I think you are a direct object in this too. You are going through the decision that has been made, but let us be friendly and pragmatic. There is an important topic on the agenda and that is even more important than the interaction between Chamber and Senate. I understand that colleagues from the Senate would like to have the floor, so let's just do that today. Tomorrow we can then look at whether the work will be carried out in a Joint Committee or not in the Conference of Presidents. Let's think about the important things today. I understand the senate's colleagues want to show their commitment. So let's work that way today. Talking about it for a long time now wouldn't be the best way to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u6	I'm sorry, but that's obviously not possible. That way we threaten to create chaos. I propose that the work be carried out as announced. Firstly, the Senate Bureau did not meet on this issue. Secondly, the senators were not invited against that background, so those who might want to participate did not know that they would get that right here on the spot. Thirdly, I do not think that the regulation is possible. The establishment of a Joint Committee may be an option, but it has not been decided to do so. I would be very sorry if the work of this committee were to give rise to a very long discussion because of this kind of intrigue. We know where it ends, in particular that only Members of Parliament can take part in this session. I propose that the discussion should begin in that spirit.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u7	Mr. Chair, by giving the floor to a senator, you responded positively to the question of whether or not senators could intervene in the debate. You decided the matter in fact. Let us continue with this momentum and not waste too much time discussing these procedural issues!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u8	Mr President, it has been twenty minutes since the hearing of the experts should have started. We are here to "save the planet," as young people say, and we are discussing whether four honourable senators can speak. We are all elected; we are all representatives of the people. Let us forget the Rules and move forward by looking at the substance of the matter!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, I can only say that the Conference of Presidents was very clear in its terms. [[Objection]] There is a demand here on a regular basis for the correct application of the Rules of Procedure, and I wish to do so. By the way, derogations from the Rules of Procedure, in this case Rule 31, can only be achieved by unanimity. I would therefore ask the Members of Parliament whether they agree to depart from Rule 31 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u10	I have to say that there is no unanimity, so we will keep the Rules of Procedure. I suggest the academics give their explanations. I suppose they will agree on how this will be done and then we can organise the round of questions with Members afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we thank you very much for inviting us to this sitting, and we are very honoured to have the opportunity to present to you our academic exercise in writing a special bill dealing with both the coordination of Belgian climate governance and its long-term vision. This is an interuniversity academic exercise.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u12	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u13	Mr Daems, we have a Rules of Procedure to follow. I'd like you to stick to that. We will not discuss this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u14	You can solve it within the Rules of Procedure. I have over 20 years of experience in this House. I could have given you a solution if you had given me the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u15	We shall continue with the presentation. I would ask you to remain calm so that the attention can be paid to the presentation of the academics.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u16	This proposal was prepared by academics from various universities whose logos are reproduced here: the University of Saint-Louis - Brussels, the universities of Ghent, Hasselt, the Catholic University of Leuven. I am myself a professor in Saint-Louis and a researcher at the FNRS. We will then hear Professor Luc Lavrysen of the UGent, D. Carole Billiet of the UGent as well, Prof. Dries Van Eeckhoutte, University of Saint-Louis - Brussels, Prof. Mathias El Berhoumi of the University of Saint-Louis - Brussels and Prof. Charles-Hubert Born, UCL. We were more numerous but we represent the group. There was also Professor. Jan Theunis of Hasselt University, Dr. Hendrik Schukens of Ghent University and three researchers who accompanied this collective writing exercise. The roots of this exercise lie in a series of seminars that we organized last year with the support of the FPS Public Health, Food Chain Safety and Environment, the conclusions of which were publicly presented to the Royal Library on November 27. However, we wanted to continue the reflection and propose what we then considered to be the milestones of a special piece of legislation. We have so well advanced that we have finally written a proposal that we feel deserves a very broad communication, hence this conference we have organised and this desire to make the text available on various websites of our universities. This proposal for a special law is absolutely not the answer to all the climate problems in Belgium. That's part of the solution. Nor is it a text that should be considered frozen. This is an academic exercise that we are discussing. On the other hand, for us, this is really a response to the shortcomings we have found in terms of climate governance in Belgium. It is also a response to the multiple demands for better cooperation, including with civil society, on this climate issue. Here I quote from this weekend's newspaper L'Écho: "The fight against climate change will be together or will not be done." It is also an exercise that we believe is absolutely necessary to meet European demands, including a regulation on climate and energy governance. This exercise is inspired by an initiative, more than that, of British legislation that has been in existence for ten years now: the Climate Change Act, whose origin must be understood. Its origin is economic, a need for stability, certainty following the 2006 Stern report, which – which is well known – demonstrated the cost of inaction. It is more economical, more cost-effective to act immediately than to wait 20 years to fight and adapt to climate change. This has been understood in the United Kingdom. It was also necessary to act beyond the simple programmatic way. It was necessary to cement the exercise in legislation that gives greater visibility to an exercise that concerns society because, as it says there, out of sight, out of mind. The very great aspect of this British law, as it is commented on in the doctrine, is its long-term vision. The main thrust of the proposal we are putting on the table is a few key words: the transparency that we put into the governance exercise, the objectivation of data, the involvement of civil society in the climate debate in a structured way, the question of ambition and the long-term vision. All this is proposed in seven pages with seven chapters. We wanted to make it simple and convincing. The chapters are proposed here. We are going to go through them quickly by insisting on the points that we already seem to be debating. But first I give the floor to Professor Luc Lavrysen of Ghent University.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u17	The question is why a special climate law is needed. This has to do with the division of powers after the sixth state reform. When we look at climate policy, we can distinguish two main pillars: on the one hand mitigation or reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and on the other hand adaptation. Unfortunately, climate change is happening and we will have to prepare ourselves for the negative consequences of reducing vulnerability. If we look at the existing division of competence in Belgium, climate policy is a mixed competence, partly federal and partly regional. This depends on the source of the measure. If we look at the powers of the Regions, then powers are relevant to the problems of climate change such as spatial planning, both in terms of mitigation and adaptation, environment and water policy, including in the two areas, land design and nature conservation, housing, agriculture, mitigation and adaptation, regional economic policy, regional energy policy, public works and transport, regional taxation, regional development cooperation, local authorities. One thing that is often forgotten and one of the reasons why we propose a special law is the Communities. The Communities are not formally involved in climate policy in the current framework, but the Communities have powers in education, both relevant to mitigation and there are a lot of school buildings and decarbonisation of these buildings is an important factor in adaptation, protection against the risk of flooding, heat and so on. Same for culture. Many cultural buildings are important if we are to reduce energy consumption. Infrastructure may also be vulnerable. There is also health care and care for the elderly, similar. Preventive health care, education, research, various forms of training are of great importance in terms of research and awareness-raising on climate change policy. The Communities also have powers in the field of development cooperation. We're coming to the federal government. Of course, we have energy policy and its federal aspects. We have the product standards that are important, we have the problem of ionising radiation and radioactive waste. We have the approval of the means of transport, we have the whole of the fuel problem. We have the railways, which have an important role to play, we have Brussels Airport. We have federal taxation, we have everything in terms of enforcement in the area of justice and police. We have civil protection, which is increasingly being dealt with by disaster management, such as drought and floods. We have the Federal Scientific Research, we have Development Cooperation and we also have the important role of coordinating international and European policies in this area. If we look at where we find fundamental principles in the Constitution to pursue a policy on this issue, we can refer to Article 7a of the Constitution, which defines sustainable development as a cross-cutting policy objective, both for the Regions and the Communities and for the federal government. The link is clear, of course. For the SDGs "Sustainable Development Goals," SDG 13 relates to climate policy, so that is a very close link. There is also a link to Article 23, the right to the protection of a healthy environment. An unsafe climate is not, of course, a healthy environment. Another important aspect is the European regulation of 11 December 2018, which is relatively recent, on the governance of the Energy Union and of the Climate Action. That Regulation requires each Member State, including a complex Member State such as Belgium, to draw up an integrated national energy and climate plan. Those plans should be drawn up every 10 years and updated every 5 years. There are biennial progress reports and, what is important, the European Commission is checking whether those Member States are properly implementing that regulation. I have that regulation with me. Our legislative proposal must be read together with that regulation, because a regulation is directly applicable. What is foreseen in those national climate and energy plans relates to five dimensions. Planning, as it should be, is very structured, so Member States, including Belgium, will have to adopt such plans. What is even more important is that these plans also have to get through the critical look of the European Commission. That's how we get to the next slide. What we have done in our preparatory studies is to see in which interesting countries we can gain inspiration in. The original law comes from the UK and dates from 2008. In the meantime Denmark, Finland, France, Sweden, Norway and almost the Netherlands also have a climate law. In December 2018, the House of Representatives approved the Dutch Climate Act; it is now ahead of the First Chamber and is expected to be approved as well. In the table you can see the different aspects covered by these laws. An important issue, which will be discussed in the near future, is the important role assigned to an independent committee in almost all these laws, which must play an important, guiding role in the whole matter. We now come to the question of why there should be a special law. That is to meet the obligations of the European Union. As has been said, we need an integrated national energy and climate plan and not a combination of different plans. It is an integrated national energy and climate plan. In order to draw up this plan, it is inevitable that there will be intensive cooperation between the federal government, the Regions and the Communities. We do not believe that a change of powers is necessary. Therefore, the proposal we are making does not entail any change in powers. We have departed from the existing powers. We are not proposing any re-federalisation or any defederalisation. What we are proposing is a system for coordinating policies, on the one hand, by defining the common objectives. If we do not commit them ourselves, they will be imposed by the European Union. On the other hand, we are proposing coordination. The implementation of this policy within the various powers at federal level, at Community level and at regional level remains, of course, the competence, role and task of the individual authorities. The question is whether there is a basis for that proposal. We think so. Firstly, there is Article 39 of the Constitution relating to the Regions. In it you will read that a special law determines, among other things, the way in which Community powers are exercised. Articles 127 and 128 of the Constitution shall apply to the Communities, so that powers and forms of cooperation may be determined by special law. Furthermore, in the special law you will find a number of provisions and definitions of jurisdiction whereby regions and Communities are given powers which they must exercise with respect for certain rules. These rules may sometimes be laid down by the special law, but sometimes they may also be ordinary national laws. Several examples of this can be read in our explanatory statement. If there is any doubt as to whether the modalities in which the Communities must exercise their powers in so far as they have an impact on climate policy can be framed by a special law, the answer is clear, because the answer is already in the special law and in its applications. I also refer to Article 6a of the Special Law, which states that the federal government has the right of initiative in the field of scientific research. Title 4a deals with cooperation between the Communities and the Regions. Finally, what you see on the next slide is probably not unknown to you. It concerns the provision, which is registered under regional competence, whereby the regions must exercise their powers in economic matters in accordance with the principle of the free movement of persons, goods, services, capital, etc. It is clear from the caselaw that this applies not only to economic matters but also to all matters, and that this applies not only to the regions but also to the Communities. For these reasons, we believe that it is perfectly possible to lay down a general framework with common objectives for the whole country and to provide a set of coordination mechanisms. This seems to be entirely in line with the current division of powers. We are therefore not proposing a recast of powers or similar powers, since the exercise of those powers by the Communities, the Regions and the Federal Government is retained in the areas either directly or indirectly defined by the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u18	As far as the content is concerned, we shall briefly address certain aspects. First, there is a general objective. You've received the texts. We have also recently provided a statement of reasons for the details of our explanation. As far as the general objective and principles are concerned, it must be understood that this is an application of Article 7bis of the Constitution and Article 23 thereof. We place our proposal on the issue of ambition in relation to climate change and adaptation, but we stress that it is primarily about the place of people and the maintenance of biodiversity on earth. In any case, we express the objective in a sufficiently broad way that it embraces the reality of this climate issue today. We maintain a principle of systematic assessment of the climate action of the authorities. That's what we call a klimaattoets. But above all, in addition to what already exists at the level of environmental policy principles, we are introducing a series of principles which are not new but which are not yet sufficiently anchored in our law in Belgium. I'll list them for you: - a principle of social justice: the fair transition is set out in advance of this proposal for a special law; - a principle of mutuality which was unanimously agreed by the social partners in the Federal Council on Sustainable Development, a few years ago, and which calls on all public authorities to act in a converging and coherent manner which reinforces each other. So we're not making up anything. Only what has already been proposed is anchored; - a principle of progress which is one of the essential elements of the Paris Agreement; - a principle of integrated pollution reduction, a principle which we believe is fundamental and which is well known in industrial matters. This is the famous IPPC principle applied to this matter of climate, as it can have an impact on the other compartments of the environmental dimension. It seems to us very important, at the dawn of a new dynamic, to include it in this legislation; - finally, the so-called principle of environmental integrity, which is merely a reflection of a principle found in the Paris Agreement.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u19	A second extremely important aspect is the involvement of stakeholders in the development and review of the implementation of climate policy. We suggest, in accordance with Article 11 of Regulation 2018/1999, to establish a multi-stakeholder and multi-sector dialogue that includes both civil society, public actors, in particular local authorities, businesses and the public at all relevant levels. This is to organise the widest possible participation with the aim of discussing the options that would be envisaged for all energy and climate-related policies, in particular to discuss the draft National Integrated Energy-Climate Plan and the long-term strategy, which are also provided for in Regulation 2018/1999, and finally, further downstream, to examine the progress made by the various competent authorities in the implementation of these planning tools. The organisation of this multi-level dialogue would be entrusted to the Inter-federal Climate Agency, which can invent a series of specific organizational modalities that we have not defined voluntarily precisely to allow for as inclusive a dialogue as possible but also the most creative. There are different possibilities in this respect. The most important aspect, with the proposal for a new governance, concerns the setting of common objectives, both in the long and medium term, i.e. two time horizons. In the long term, the 2050 horizon is also the time horizon adopted at European level in the current Commission discussions in the long-term strategy. There are also medium-term targets for 2030. The bill we are making sets out four types of targets, including greenhouse gas reduction targets – the definition of greenhouse gases referring to European regulations. We propose reduction figures that reflect discussions in the House of Representatives, particularly in its December 2018 resolution on the repositioning of Belgium in the climate debate. That is why we have indicated a 95% reduction in emissions compared to the 1990 situation. The proposed 65% reduction reflects civil society demands, including Rise for Climate. These are, of course, figures which are not the result of our own reflections but rather of public debates. They have been deliberately mentioned in square brackets, so that we do not present already set objectives here, because these are of course objectives to be discussed. A second objective concerns the share of renewable energy in gross energy consumption, which would be increased to 32% by 2030. This figure reflects the EU's overall commitment under the Renewable Energy Directive. By 2050, we have not proposed figures at this stage. This point obviously remains to be discussed. Improving energy efficiency is another key aspect of climate policy. The proposed target is an improvement of 32.5% by 2030, which is also the overall target pursued by the European Union in its Energy Efficiency Directive. Another objective is adaptation to climate change. The idea is to include in the plan the national dimension of adaptation, which is a key element in managing risks to human communities as well as biodiversity. The figures presented here are taken from the public debate or, possibly, from texts already in force. We'll let you discuss it. The revision of the objectives is also provided for in the proposal, on a proposal from the Committee of Independent Experts and through a discussion in the framework of the multi-level dialogue, following a principle of progress. The idea is of course not to allow a regression in the setting of these objectives, in accordance with Belgium's international obligations under the Paris Agreement. The above objectives are those that will need to inspire and be integrated into the various federal, regional and community policies through the National Integrated Plan and the long-term strategy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u20	Then we come to Chapter 5, on climate policy institutions. We would like to discuss that chapter briefly here. In that chapter four institutions are discussed, but before I go into that, I would like to mention the basic principles that we used when working on them. Firstly, we have left the current institutional framework. The idea was to keep this as much as possible. It is important to repeat, taking into account some public responses to this design. There is no transfer of powers. That is not the intention of the draft that we have written. Secondly, we have incorporated the existing institutions and the officials who work there as much as possible into the draft. Unlike certain public statements, no seven new institutions are created by this draft and no multiple assignments are made to officials. That is not the intention of this draft. On the other hand, we have adapted the current institutional framework as much as possible to the findings of the public and social dialogue on climate governance held on 27 November last year. In fact, many of you have participated. Let me repeat the relevant general findings. The public findings that we have heard there were the need to strengthen cooperation between the different policy levels in Belgium, but also between the different policy areas. We must not forget this, it is about levels but also about different policy areas. Another question that has been repeated several times is that there is a need for the objectification of the debate. That is why we have also provided funds for the objectification of the debate. It also asked for a flywheel, for a tractor, so institutions or governments that can draw the debate, cooperation and coherence between policies, so they can move forward. The guarantee of democratic legitimacy was also underlined. This must certainly be embedded, as must the strengthening of civic participation. A final important aspect was the alignment with the new Energy Union Governance Regulation and the Climate Action Regulation. Let us then look more specifically at the different institutions in the light of the findings of the climate governance dialogue. We have discussed four different institutions in Chapter 5 of the draft. An exact bottleneck that we have picked up on this climate governance dialogue concerns the problematic functioning of the current National Climate Commission, the NKC. One of the many comments was that the political, administrative and scientific functions were too mixed up in the National Climate Commission, which does not improve its effectiveness and efficiency. For these reasons, we have clearly distinguished these three functions in the proposal. Firstly, we have provided for an Inter-Ministerial Climate Conference. This is in itself an inter-ministerial conference as many exist today and which work under the Consultative Committee. Secondly, at the official level, we have provided for an Inter-Federal Climate Agency. Contrary to what has been adopted by certain people in the press, this is not a new institution created, with its own officials, but a common workplace for officials from different administrations, different levels of policy and different policy areas. Officials therefore work there on the basis of a public contract or on the basis of the posting model. Thirdly, there is the Permanently Independent Climate Expert Committee. That is an important novelty in this proposal. This committee should provide the scientific basis, the scientific support, to the policy. We found the inspiration for this in the UK Climate Change Committee. Another finding from the climate governance dialogue we have been working on is the following. Political consultations at ministerial level are now taking place at the comprehensive Inter-Ministerial Conference on the Environment (UICL). One remark was that it does not adequately reflect the transversal nature of climate policy. The UICL gives the impression that climate policy is purely environmental policy, environmental protection policy. However, this ignores the broad transversal nature of this issue. It is not just about protecting the environment but about preserving human life and biodiversity on earth. That's the bottom line. We have therefore taken this into account in our draft. The current consultation does not adequately reflect the transversal nature. That is why we have adapted the consultations in the form of the Inter-Ministerial Climate Conference. The last point we have picked up from the climate governance dialogue is that it was noted that the exercise of the informal interparliamentary committee was useful, that it was a good example, and that they wanted to work on it. That is what we have retained and formalized in our design. Let me repeat what is new: at the moment only the expert committee is really new. As a result of our design, an institution would also disappear: the current National Climate Commission. I would like to summarize the whole institutional structure once again. On the one hand, there is the political level with the Inter-Ministerial Climate Conference. Next is the agency, the common workplace for civil servants. Cooperation from a common workplace promotes coherence. That's the official level. Then there is the expert committee that must provide scientific support for policy. Parliamentary accountability is carried out, inter alia, through the interparliamentary climate consultation. Here's what I'm gonna say. It is about the instruments for cooperation between the different Belgian levels and policy areas. The actual policy itself remains with the governments and under the authority of their respective parliaments. So it is not about a transfer of powers. Another aspect that is not discussed in the chapter on the institutions but which is also important here is, of course, the broad social dialogue that Charles-Hubert Born has just explained.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u21	I would like to comment on the various climate policy institutions. The Inter-Ministerial Climate Conference would be the political level of the executive. It fully subscribes to the cooperative federalism instruments provided for in the ordinary law of 9 August 1980, in particular Article 31a. It is important to mention that this Inter-Ministerial Climate Conference, which will take over some of the tasks of the enlarged Inter-Ministerial Conference on the Environment, will be a decision-making body within our proposal. It will have a decision-making power that is largely related to what the European regulation requires each Member State, including Belgium, to do. This concerns national energy and climate plans, first of all the decision-making power to adopt the draft. After a round of checks by the Commission, the draft comes back to us and we need to work on establishing the plan. She also has the power to decide. It also has decision-making power over the update that takes place between two plans. It also has the competence in relation to the long-term strategy to which the regulation also requires us. The Interfederal Climate Agency, Professor Van Eeckhoutte, has already situated it, with the aim of bringing together the civil service forces of the administrations of the various authorities concerned, the Federal State, the Communities, the Regions and the rest of the world into a workplace; what, in common sense suggests, will be done to a large extent by some form of posting of officials already working in existing climate services. That agency will be the climate administration with tasks in the preparation of the preliminary draft national energy and climate plans, the actualisations to be carried out. These are tasks directly resulting from the European Regulation. The Interfederal Climate Agency will also be responsible for the organisation, tracking and making work on this broad social climate dialogue that Charles-Hubert Born mentioned and which is actually also based on the Paris Agreement. Those are things that are actually dripping down in our legal order of the supranational level. Forwarding information and reports is another important task. That can make a bit of a smile, but don't underestimate it. There are a lot of reporting obligations under the regulation. Those reporting obligations are, of course, the paper trail on which the whole control and monitoring is based. They are therefore particularly important. This climate administration is also responsible for this. These are the broad lines of the tasks of this administration. We will then come to the Climate Expert Committee. The essence of this is that it is an independent centre of expertise and knowledge with a very broad expertise. I'd like to go over to the next slide before I take care of it. On this slide you will see the expertise that should be present on this committee. You note that, of course, there is a need for expertise on climate change, climate risks, and international, European and internal climate policies. Similarly, there should also be expertise on the economy, finance, industry, technological developments and their inclusion in the economic fabric, and energy production and distribution. In addition, expertise on social, behavioural and educational aspects. You can read it yourself. However, what is particularly important is the following. This expert committee is not a club of climate scientists. It has been opened up much wider and this according to UK-model. I've been happy to list the UK composition, in addition to our proposal. You will also notice financial investment, business competitiveness... all these ideas were taken over and must be taken away. The Committee on Climate and Climate Policy, I should like to go back to the previous slide: it responds to the question of objectification of the objectives, of the climate problem, of proposals for Burden Sharing and the like, which was already clearly present from a political and social point of view. The tasks assigned to this committee in our proposal relate, on the one hand, to the scientific basis of the climate policy planning provided for in the regulation, and I do not go into the details, as you will find them in the explanatory memorandum and, on the other hand, with advice on the request of the authorities, with advice on the committee's own initiative and, finally, with interpreting or addressing when there are issues that raise questions and the possibility, if the committee deems it necessary, of being heard in the parliaments. That is the basic task. The Committee is supported by a permanent secretariat and can draw on the wide range of expertise already available in other institutions, such as the Court of Auditors, the Planning Bureau, the Federal Council for Sustainable Development and so on. I now move on to two slides to the Interparliamentary Climate Committee. The interparliamentary climate talks, as already mentioned by my colleague Dries Van Eeckhoutte, came about spontaneously and were seen not only by the outside world but also by the Members themselves as positive. In the joint statement on climate policy in Belgium in November 2017, I noted a passage in which MEPs said: "We underline the enrichment of exchanges between parliaments on climate policy." So it has not only been seen as positive by the outside world but also by the Members themselves, but my colleague Mathias El Berhoumi is going to talk about this in greater detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u22	As Mr Dries Van Eeckhoutte has said, this interparliamentary committee is an initiative that already exists, which is only being formalised. We are only following what was recommended in the work of the Senate Information Report. We must not here demonstrate the interest that this type of organ can have in a mechanism that may lack transparency, if not be very opaque, because we are here in a framework of cooperative federalism. We know that the difficulty of cooperative federalism, in general, is that it is a federalism between executive powers, which does not have this direct democratic legitimacy mentioned by Dries Van Eeckhoutte. The idea of this interparliamentary commission is precisely to give it this foundation, to allow parliamentarians to play their role as interface with citizens and civil society. I would just like to emphasize that there are three differences from what is contained in the information report of the Senate. The first is that the association of the Communities is planned from the outset, which reflects a general orientation of this proposal for a special law, to say that climate policy also concerns the powers of the Communities and that it is necessary to include them. Secondly, a provision specifically recognizes the importance of the publicity of these meetings of the Inter-Parliamentary Commission, because it is clearly the added value that accompanies the debates and that is a difference from the governments that operate in secret, in discretion. It was intended to include this element from the outset in article 10. Finally, there are other more specific aspects in relation to what is envisaged in the recommendations and which are based on what already exists in article 92bis/1 of the Special Law on Institutional Reforms. You have an interparliamentary commission that can be set up when it comes to adopting joint decrees or joint decrees and ordinances. It was found that there were inspirations to be sought in terms of the composition and functioning of this Inter-Parliamentary Commission on Climate. With respect to the Senate's recommendations, one element has not been integrated. Delphine Misonne talked about a product that could still be improved. That is the case. In the proposal we have drafted, there are not yet enough links between this interparliamentary commission and the process of adopting the National Energy-Climate Plan. You have, in Article 13, in particular, the fact that this plan is adopted by the Interministerial Conference, but no doubt we must also provide for a form of consent on the part of this interparliamentary commission, precisely in order to avoid, from the moment when there are mandatory measures, that these measures can produce effects without parliamentary consent. These are suggestions that can be added and which are part of the elements that can still be considered in order to improve the proposal. As far as the parliamentary aspects are concerned, I will also mention the day of the climate. At the end of the proposal, we find the issue of climate day. The Inter-Parliamentary Committee deals with relations between parliamentarians from different assemblies. Climate Day is, on the contrary, a form of climate accountability for each government before its respective assembly. For this, we have drawn inspiration from foreign examples. I am thinking in particular of what was imagined in the Netherlands, although, of course, when it is transposed into the Belgian context, it is more complicated because there are many assemblies. The idea is to have a form of declaration inspired by the discourse of the State of the Union, but which would focus more on the climatic aspects that concern all the entities that make up the Belgian federation, thus including the Communities that are sometimes forgotten. This is a time when there will be a specific focus with the government that will come to report on the climate measures it has taken and what it plans to do in the next period. A special debate will thus be held on these issues, which will be articulated in particular with the broad, multi-level social dialogue referred to in Article 3 and which must be accompanied by a plenary meeting specifically devoted to these issues. It was proposed in April to prevent this issue from being debated at a time too close to the parliamentary re-entry which gave rise to a speech on the state of the Union, in any case at the federal level. The aim is to have a moment that is not absorbed in a sequence in which public policy is generally addressed. Ms. Delphine Misonne spoke about developments in the proposal. These developments are open to the public. They were sent to the secretariat of the commission. I draw your attention to the fact that we did not write these developments the same day because we did not know if our initiative was going to be successful. So we decided not to go any further, considering that we had done enough work. But in view of the interest we have seen, we have tried to justify the various elements. This paper contains developments that are sometimes more in-depth than those that have been expressed here orally, in particular as a legal basis for the instrument of the special law. From the moment you have referred to the Council of State proposals for a special law which were based on our proposal, it would be interesting if you would also submit to it the elements that we propose to you and which sometimes allow for a better justification of the provisions and arrangements that have been envisaged.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u23	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u24	Mr President, I will begin by thanking the university professors from the north and south of the country – which is always commendable. To address the proposal for a special law, I will not enter into a political debate, because we are not here for this purpose, since these are technical issues. One of your many merits is to put on the table the thorny issue of climate governance in a country like ours. Whether we like it or not, energy competence has been designed according to successive state reforms. However, climate competence was stuttering, or often being put on hold in recent years. Our ambitions in this area have not always been relayed in a remarkable way. We will remember that the last COP resulted in a real trauma for many of us as well as for civil society. That is why, if I understand correctly, you are trying to establish, by means of this special law, climate governance, in the hope that all the workings are articulated between the different levels of power. Secondly, you propose setting medium- and long-term targets, as the European Commission is also asking – we are not going to lie to ourselves. Many of your principles come from European directives, which apply directly. This method allows us to give some visibility to our objectives and how to achieve them. I come to very technical questions, since we will hold the political debate between colleagues at a later stage. First of all, you set out several principles in Article 3, § 3. For us Socialists, they are fundamental in the climate and environmental debate. As we have always indicated, we must not oppose social emergency and climate emergency. We know that the first aspect is well present in our country and that it will only worsen if we take care of the second, so that inequalities may increase. You are therefore laying down a series of principles such as social justice, mutuality and the progression of integrated reductions. Should not the question of the principles mentioned in section 3 be defined directly in the law? For us these are fundamental principles. I therefore ask you a question of a legal nature. In Article 4, you talk about the multi-level dialogue, which you mentioned in your presentation. It's not very pragmatic. You did a little bit of roughing up the way to put it in place. Multi-level dialogue also includes civil society and citizens directly. We know how complex it is to come out of something that doesn't frustrate the majority of levels. Do you have experience or expertise in this field abroad? You talked about the English law. Could this very broad multi-level dialogue lead to a result in which everyone can "find their little ones", as they say? In Article 5, you refer to the long- and medium-term objectives. You repeated them here. You have taken up certain objectives at European level, others concerning resolutions that we have voted here in Parliament. You left a lens in square brackets, as you said, and I don't understand it. This is the 65% reduction in greenhouse gases by 2030. I was going to talk to them, and I see you smiling. In the various texts we have voted here in Parliament, this reduction has been cut to 55%. You said it came from civil society. We can run numbers any way we want. At some point, it is necessary to be serious in determining the results to be achieved. The same applies to the ability to achieve this, otherwise disappointments are even greater. Did you choose this option because scientists - I'm not talking about lawyers - told you that we could reach that figure? Or have you decided to use, on the one hand, a figure mentioned in a text voted by Parliament and, on the other, a figure from civil society? I'd like to know why you set your choice at 65%. It is not the figure that has been taken up elsewhere. Let me turn to my fourth question. I will not be longer because other speakers have to speak, Mr. Chairman. The purpose of your proposal for a special law set out here is to give subjective rights to citizens who could, for example, attack measures or denounce the absence of measures taken by governments before the courts, which has recently occurred in the Netherlands. Does this proposal give citizens subjective rights? This is also a legal issue. If I were to disappear for a moment, it was to defend bills, which also concern citizens, in the Committee on the Economy. However, one of my collaborators will remain present to take note of the answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the introduction. I will not mow away Mr Wollants all the grass at his feet and will make just a few general remarks. The explanation of the proposal for a special climate law is not yours, but it is in preparation that we are holding a hearing today. She is also in the spirit of what you yourself say in your document. For example, the applicants say that doing nothing costs 5 % to 20 % of GDP or gross domestic product. "Take action forever costs 1% for a period of twenty years. It is high time for radical structural measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions quickly and drastically and to limit global warming to well below two degrees, preferably one-and-a-half degrees, because it changes our living world dramatically." In the same spirit, I read: " Waiting for action would have disastrous consequences." In your note, you also say: "Every government decision that can reasonably have an impact on climate or climate policy is subject to prior evaluation of this impact." It is quite clear that a large majority of the population undoubtedly wants to make efforts that are also effective. We are talking about global warming at one and a half to two degrees. On the other hand, emissions are produced worldwide at only 0.3 percent of our output and 9.6 percent in the EU. However, the aim of the proposal for a climate law and your note gives the impression that we need to tackle the problem internally. So, first of all, what would be the impact of implementing your proposal on global warming? Secondly, why is your proposal, apart from my mistake, not paying any attention to innovative knowledge sharing? I mean the technological developments which, if successful in a number of areas, can be exportable, so that the impact can be much greater than just working on the objectives in our own country. We read in the explanatory statement on page 6 that it is necessary not only to save our climate, but, of course, to protect our planet, but also to create additional opportunities for our economy and employment. My question is whether you agree with that. On page 10 of the explanatory memorandum to the proposal, we read that if we invest now, we will improve competitiveness, stimulate employment and contribute to a sustainable economy. Do you have any idea of the cost of implementing the proposed climate law? This is an extremely important point for us as politicians. Can you compare this with your answer to my first question about the impact of the full implementation of your proposal? You are asking for quite a few bodies to be set up. I am somewhat afraid that if you set up all these institutions, you will, in particular, be threatening to disrupt the administrative environment. After all, this country does not really have a shortage of institutions, while you are adding a rather decent group to them. In Article 17 of the bill, I read that the Inter-Ministerial Conference will draw up a long-term strategy of at least 30 years and that this long-term strategy will be submitted to the European Commission after consultation with the Inter-parliamentary Climate Commission. What is the impact and role of the Interparliamentary Climate Committee in decision-making? On page 20, I read that each Parliament on climate day, referred to in Article 19, devotes a plenary session to the discussion of the report. A discussion of the report sounds rather non-binding to me for a parliament. To what extent is the role of Parliament in the implementation and roll-out of your forest being undermined by institutions? It is about politically enforceable and, I presume, legally enforceable objectives. If an objective is put forward and it is fixed, one can expect a path to the objective to be drawn up in order to achieve it. You're not even vague about that. You don't talk about it in all languages. Is that justified? Is it justified to say that we need to achieve a result without even giving a hint of the veil of the way in which we should be able to achieve it? So you've actually ignored the most important part of the homework. You didn't do that. You did not put forward any concrete proposals to indicate how we would achieve the objectives. This means that you are actually holding back the policy, without taking responsibility, to work towards it in one way or another. That sounds a bit like a bank screw, of which we do not know what lies behind it. You want to put forward and impose an objective here in our federal institution, which must also be respected by the Länder. That means that you are actually undermining the competence of the Länder. You ignore them and you give an important binding political mandate from the federal level, which will determine the policy space for the Länder to an important extent. It is difficult to deny that this is an intervention on the autonomy of the Länder. You refer to the law that was passed in Britain. The European Union is drawing up a fork of 80% to 95% reduction. Great Britain opted for the bottom of the fork, 80%. You choose the top of the fork, which is 95 %. You do that again quite gratuitous, without indicating how we could get that 95 %. I repeat, I am not opposed to this. However, as a politician, I would like to inform the people of the consequences of a particular decision. Where does your entanglement with Britain's decision come from? The EU wants to reduce CO2 emissions. Energy reduction and the use of renewable energy are resources, but you also set targets, which apparently means that a number of alternatives to achieving the CO2 reduction are pushed away by you as not acceptable. I would have liked to have a word of explanation on that too.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u26	Mr President, first of all a word to thank academics for this approach. This approach may not be unique, but it is in any case very original. Not unique: we have already received bills in connection with a debate that we had in Parliament and that was taking place in society. But it is also original, because it revolves around the mobilization of tens of thousands of young people, families, NGOs, trade unions, all those who call for a more ambitious climate policy, in the short term. It is also in this that I find the approach to be original. I followed the Senate's work on governance and the synthesis report that you released. We already found the chapters of what you presented here. I myself thought it was a good basis for a text, probably at the beginning of the legislature or as part of a government agreement. But in fact, the news has, somewhere, caught up with us, and that's very good. You were able to react very quickly and put in the form of legal text - which was better placed than you to do?-, the conclusions you had drawn from your scientific work, which was initially not specifically legal, but related to climate governance. In this sense, I find it both original and socially relevant. It is also one of the missions of universities. I regularly stress this aspect, while too often the only mission, either research or teaching and training, is highlighted, forgetting the third mission. Here, you prove that you're far from forgetting it. Our group, very modestly, has transposed this text into a bill, to make it go back to the agenda of Parliament's work very quickly. But let's be clear: paternity comes back to you. You made it very clear: it is not an Ecolo-Green text. I said that at the time of consideration. It is a text that relays what has been done. Indeed, it is already co-signed by a number of colleagues. It is always possible, for those who have not yet signed it but are in favour of the principles and claims expressed, to sign it. It's obvious. My questions are, like those of my colleague Lalieux, of a technical nature because the political debate will take place in the Committee on Public Health and the Environment, since this was decided by the Conference of Presidents. However, behind the technical issues are of course political concerns, both of which are strongly linked in this kind of text. I will start with something that may seem anecdotal and that could give the impression of a pro-format, namely the principles that you decline in § 3 of Article 4. I'm not a lawyer - I'm lucky. So I can be totally imprecise. Since you are a lawyer, I would like to question you because you will probably be able to explain to us the force and legal scope of such considerations which may seem very general but which are nevertheless in a special piece of legislation, which guides the sense of understanding and possibly even in case of subsequent recourse. Because the Ecolo-Groen Group is particularly committed to this dimension and these principles that must guide climate policy and, in particular, the principle of social justice that you have put in place, and you are right to have done so, in the first place in your principles of law enforcement. My question is, what is the legal scope of this? Is it a declaration of intent or can it be binding, namely that if there were to be measures under the special law, dimensions that would not respect social justice, for example, would subsequent remedies be possible? It is known that the link with justice is a new tool or tool recently used by a series of NGOs and citizens defending the climate and who are taking legal action to make it known and to assert their right to climate protection. This is my first question concerning the scope of these principles in Article 4, § 3. My second question relates to Article 7(1), which states that the quantified objectives can be modified in accordance with the principles of progress. You mentioned it in your presentation. This principle of progression is also reflected in § 3 of Article 4. I say it again, I'm not a lawyer. It's a chance. In other parliamentary proceedings, however, reference was often made to the standstill principle. Is it the same? Is that necessarily different? If so, what is the difference? What is the difference in scope? Is it as binding as the standstill? In a previous life, I was responsible for a student movement. Much reliance has been placed on the New York Pact to demand standstill in various matters, including minerval and other matters. I wanted to know what was the scope of the principle of progression compared to that of the standstill. I heard one of your colleagues who had not been involved in your work, Professor. Ernst of the University of Liège, say that we do not have to worry about the part of the law relating to figures. In fact, if tomorrow, without changing the special law which creates a two-thirds text, it can be changed simply as desired either by an ordinary law or by a decision of the government (e.g. revise 65/55 % and put it to 35), what would be the point of putting these figures in the special law if your article 7, § 1 simply allows them to be revised downwards later? We'd have a nice window, but behind the scenes, we'd see those numbers down. With this new text, it would obviously be impossible according to my view of the standstill but I am not a lawyer. I therefore ask you about these figures once they have been determined by law. You put them in square brackets. I totally understand. Unless I'm mistaken, it's not your job. You are specialists in the law, the Constitution, special laws but not the environment. You are tending the pole to other skills to complete these numbers. Once these figures have been determined by the special law, can they be revised very simply, especially downwards? I come to Article 4, § 2, which is also very interesting. It brings a dimension on which you have not yet stopped much, but which is very close to my heart. I read it again for colleagues: "Any government decision that is reasonably likely to have an impact on climate or on climate policy must be subject to a prior assessment of this impact." If this special law is adopted, does this mean that either a law or a special law, through decisions of the various governments concerned, must be put in place? Or is it simply a declaration of intent that does not require implementing legislation or implementing decrees, or even special implementing legislation that allows, for example, as the Walloon government is currently considering, simply to the minister in charge of giving his or her opinion? Or does it go further? Like me, I will one day consider it necessary, perhaps not in the text of the special law but in the text of other devices. There is now a financial inspection that controls a priori the ability of a government to spend such and such a sum on a voted budget. Could we imagine a climate inspection that would check whether the climate budget - with the percentages and tonnes of CO2 emitted - is well in the trajectory as the entity concerned would have translated it into a special law? If this is not the case, it is obviously not the financial inspectorate that must permanently block. The draft decree, the decrees must pass to the government, take steps with a warning lit by the inspection concerned. So these are my questions about the logical, necessary, coherent follow-up to Article 4, § 2. I now turn to the secretariat of the committee because the professors told us that they had forwarded the developments. I saw them on their website. Unless I'm mistaken, they only exist in Dutch. They are very technical at times. It's not a criticism. I've read these aspects. Not being a lawyer, Dutch law doesn't help me. I would like to check with the services that the translation into French is under way. Thus, during the work in the ad hoc committee, we will be able to have solid legal tools. These are very detailed reasonings, in any case in all that I have understood, of the presentations filed as attachments. We will not repeat the presentation of a special law tabled, but we can attach annexes to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u27	We have indeed received that. The text is currently being translated and should be ready at the time when the Health Commission will begin its work.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u28	Thank you very much for that. Another aspect is "climate day". It's quite original to bring this, but you brought it into your governance conclusions. It sets an appointment in the month of Earth Day, which makes a lot of sense. There would be two important meetings in October: the State of the Union and the state of the climate. I wanted to point out that I have no specific question about this aspect. I still have questions about multi-level dialogue in Article 4. Who can or should take the initiative? Can all concerned entities do so? At what level? It is not enough to stay with a beautiful frame but without impulse. You have presented us with the removal of the CNC but what becomes of the cooperation agreement? Shouldn't it be repealed? You have placed a great deal of emphasis on the Communities. With the behaviors that the climate demands of us, who can imagine that the Communities are not fundamentally involved in this work? Why didn't you include the Communities in the Inter-Parliamentary Committee? Is it because you are starting from a reasoning that regional Members are also in the parliaments of the Communities? That's a question I'm asking you to have a good understanding of that. There is nothing about the international dimension – even if we are talking about the Paris Agreement – in the other direction, in what Belgium must bring to the international level, in international representations, in the fact that it must be an actor in order to lead Europe to the height and even to lead Europe to the global level. It seems to me to be a bottom-up in the role we could take on in addition. We have thought about it, but we did not want to overwhelm the text so that we could start work in Parliament with the original text. We have only changed the text in square brackets, which is automatically rejected in a text tabled in Parliament. We will discuss the content in committee. Would not the international dimensions, such as the contribution to the Green Climate Fund and a coherent position from Belgium to Europe, also have their place in this text? Thank you again for this quick contribution. You see that the Parliament and the Senate that I include in the reflection – unfortunately, some did not want it to be able to speak – are assemblies that are listening and can react very quickly to what is being said outside and what academics are doing. My only hope is that this bill will be voted on in time for the House and Senate to have completed their work before the dissolution and the elections, so that future governments will take responsibility for the measures that need to be implemented. For this to work, the widest possible consensus must be reached on the necessary objectives and tools. Oil in the workings, that's what you bring us and I thank you again.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u29	Mr President, I would like to thank the speakers for their presentation on the special climate law. It is good that there is a proposal. For example, we have at least a basis for discussion and we can take note of everyone's views. I have eight specific questions. The first question is who actually wrote out the special climate law. This morning there was discussion about this in the special Committee on Climate Change. There were six authors at first, then seven and in other documents eleven people were indicated. It would be good if you could explain who actually handled the pen and whether we have actually invited everyone here. After a first reading of the proposal for a special law, we are concerned about the number of new institutions being set up. There is the Inter-Ministerial Climate Conference and there is an Inter-Federal Climate Agency. There are already many bodies dealing with the climate at the various levels. I do not think that the climate has been helped by creating more bodies. You have said here that no new body will be created and that the officials who are already dealing with climate change will be involved, even after a redeployment, so that they will not be recruited to do so. That sounds good, but you also speak of an Interfederal Climate Agency, bringing together officials from all levels to work together around the climate. That sounds very nice in theory, but the question is whether this will be possible in practice. After all, all these people have different statutes and work among different political leaders. How will you translate your idea into practice? Are there any examples in Belgium of exactly how this can be organised? If we want to do this effectively, what steps do we need to take? Should there be agreements on this? I think we will have some further discussions on the objective, but I assume that this will be done at the political level and that we do not need to enter into this discussion. It is not so difficult to set an objective, we can all do so, but that objective is translated into concrete actions and it is the path to which it is most difficult. That is something that is lacking in the proposal for a special law. How the objectives are defined and agreements on their achievement remain a blind spot. Besides, there's not really a stick behind the door. We can approve the proposal for a special law with objectives, but will it help to achieve the objectives? For example, we could have opted to include sanctions in the proposal for a special climate law. That was deliberately not done here. Can you tell me why you don't provide for that? After all, if the proposal for a law is adopted with the necessary objectives, it is the intention that everyone should comply with their commitments. Is a special law the appropriate means for this? Another possibility is a cooperation agreement, rather than a special law. Why didn't you choose that? What are the pros and cons of a special law on the one hand and a cooperation agreement on the other? Then I would like to turn to Chapter 5, Section 3. There is a list of 11 domains, for which up to nine experts provide measures. I was surprised at the lack of mobility and housing. Why weren't they taken? We are talking about important sectors, where we should take a great deal of action to achieve our objectives. Eleven domains and nine experts are proposed. Do you think those nine experts are enough? Can they follow all the themes sufficiently? Is there sufficient knowledge about this? You say in Article 9 (3) that the professors must be independent. How will you guarantee that independence? How are we supposed to see this independence? Then I come to my penultimate question. You referred to countries that have already adopted climate laws. Is that where an evaluation took place? How long has this climate law been in force? When the climate law enters into force, will the objectives be achieved more quickly? Is there a huge progression there? Or hasn't there been an evaluation? I would have liked to have the figures. A climate decree has already been adopted in Wallonia. Has there been an evaluation of this? Has the policy in this area been speeded up after the adoption of the decree, in other words the objectives are being achieved more quickly? If so, I would have liked to have the figures. Finally, there is the proposal on climate day. That seems very good to me, but if we incorporate that idea into a special law, doesn't that go against Article 60 of the Constitution? After all, the Constitution makes it very clear that each parliament determines the way in which it exercises its powers through its own rules of procedure. Can you verify that for me?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank our guests for the initiative they have taken. I want to start with a positive note. The renewed attention of the public and the academic level for the climate is, of course, commendable and positive. However, when I read the text and note the spirit of the introduction, I do not think we understand each other very well. I have the impression that there is not enough interest in the subject at political level. That really is a fundamental mistake in this story. After all, the merit of this text is putting the issue back on the agenda. The aim is to institutionalise this and to ensure that there are a number of institutions to follow the renewed and strengthened objectives. The view is therefore that there is insufficient attention to the issue. I have to say that in the last five years all the political groups have been paying attention to this by their colleagues, in other words, almost every working day. Many colleagues on this side are trying to make creative proposals to meet the objectives, but of course in a pragmatic, feasible and realistic way. After all, what we in Parliament approve must also have a support for the public, which sometimes has to make sacrifices in order to move forward. That is the difficult situation that we often face. We are therefore looking at the proposal before us from that point of view. The focus on the subject is, of course, very positive. A first comment from our group is that a number of institutions that already exist today, such as the National Climate Commission, the Inter-Ministerial Conference on the Environment and the inter-parliamentary climate consultation, are somewhat ignored. There are already bodies within the federation and with the regions to discuss this issue. The fundamental criticism concerns precisely what action we will take if we set these objectives. In other words, these objectives will be a lot more stringent than what has been proposed so far. The target is to achieve 55% greenhouse gas reduction in Belgium by 2030. This is not at the level of the EU where it is now 40%. In addition, 32 % of renewable energy is to be obtained. You know that our party is very much in favour of this. We have taken enormous steps forward in the policy at Flemish level, with Bart Tommelein and now with Lydia Peeters. We find 32.5 % energy-efficient very ambitious. We know that there is still a great deal to gain from concrete measures, but they will demand sacrifices from everyone. It's quite ambitious, isn't it? The academics even mentioned in their text a 65% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. That's 11 years from now. Do you think those objectives are realistic themselves, knowing that they are even sharper than what has been proposed so far in the international context? We know how much time it takes to loosen investments to achieve a new energy policy. Private individuals still have a lot of energy efficiency gains to achieve in individual housing, in existing and older homes, but these are mostly lower-budget homes that cannot make the investments more energy efficient for homes. You know this will cost a lot of money. Industry must make a contribution, but it also has an economic impact. Was this figured out? Do you see that in a period of 11 years? What specific proposals can you make to make this move forward? For us, the problem is not the setting and following of strict targets, but we do want to know what we, as politicians, can do in concrete terms. Otherwise, we will have an unfair debate with public opinion. Of course, this debate has a nice side, because everyone who has children and grandchildren naturally wants the planet to be viable for the next generations. We must, of course, commit ourselves to this. At the same time, however, we must tell public opinion what they will be asked to do at different levels. If we do not, we will have an unfair debate. That's not fair. When one says A, one should also say the beginning of B. That is our fundamental criticism of the text. We would like to know exactly what we are going to do, or at least have an idea of some measures to know where we are going. It must go beyond just setting objectives. Otherwise we may be holding a mirror where we feel morally good, but on which we are not satisfied at the end of the journey. Then, year after year, institutions will say to policy: it is not enough. Mrs Dierick has just asked what kind of sanction mechanism there is. It could be a basis for lawsuits such as the climate case, but that has not yet happened in policy. I am quite pragmatic and realistic in this. I share your concern. I want to go along with ambitions, but we really need pragmatically realistic proposals. Our group has tried to do so in recent years. I have already said what we have tried to do at regional level in the field of renewable energy, with a lot of criticism from some of the other groups in this House who are portraying us as unrealistic. I would also like to mention, for example, the proposal on commercial vehicles which I have recently submitted myself and which I consider to be very important. There is the perpetual criticism of our system of commercial vehicles, which actually serves as a form of remuneration. There are 700 000 commercial vehicles in our fleet today. We can abolish that system, and the most radical voices say so too. I understand why this is said: if one were to start from scratch, there would be no cat in the room inventing such a thing. The commercial vehicles are there, because the wage burden in our country was too heavy, so some people now have that in their wage package. We are trying in a pragmatic and realistic way to motivate people to abandon it and convert the company car into a mobility budget, which may be approved in plenary in two weeks' time. This is already an important step, because many companies are waiting for it to be able to exchange the car for other alternatives and to adjust it in the same way. That is not the ideal yet, but it is a pragmatic way of dealing with it. We now have hundreds of thousands of cars, which are usually the forerunners of the second-hand market, so please let us apply ever stricter standards so that the commercial vehicles become zero-emission cars and the entire fleet will be renewed in five to ten years' time. What I do find weird, though, is that the colleagues from CD&V support our proposal and I think that there are still parties looking positively at it that the biggest leaders of the climate story are firing our proposal. I think that is foolish: they set the bar so high that any pragmatic measure can be renounced, but it can be a huge step in the right direction. If you can make hundreds of thousands of cars of our fleet CO2 neutral, it will have a very big impact on our country. So I will stick to my fundamental criticism: it is good to set objectives, but we need very concrete, tangible things. That's what the kids are asking. They are not asking us for major objectives, they are asking us for concrete action, and we really must be able to do so. That is our big problem with the text, for which we would like to see an alternative. For the rest, we are open to the debate, because we are very pleased that it has started.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u31	Mr President, I would, of course, like to thank the academics for the explanation, but also for the work that preceded it. Ladies and gentlemen, there is some criticism here of the practical effects, but I think that the positive aspect of what we are now experiencing is that it is on the agenda and that an attempt has been made to achieve unity in Belgium's policy and in the general objectives for the different Communities, regions and the federal level. If we do not have this, it will always be very difficult in Belgium. We have had to go to climate conferences a few times with very embarrassed jaws because we had no agreement between the different regions and the federal government. An agreement was reached just at the last minute. I think that we can avoid that with this framework in the future. I fully agree with the need to take concrete action. That will then be up to us, the Regions and the Communities, to fill this out. In any case, thank you for initiating this. In any case, we will support this move. Many colleagues have already asked questions. I'm gonna add another one. What is very important to us, Mr Lalieux, is that this is the principle of redistribution and social justice. You have also put that forward as a principle. I think Mr Nollet has already asked how this will be done. What really amazes me was that a number of expertises have been included in your Climate Expert Committee and that social redistribution aspect is not taken into account when it is actually one of your starting points. It is also a shock to many people in public opinion. They fear that all kinds of measures to improve the climate will be at the expense of their wallet. Mr Lachaert has just set an example of the houses that are poorly isolated. These are the houses of people who have no money to isolate their homes. If people are going to impose things, this will be problematic for those people. What amazes me a little is that on your committee that expertise is lacking unless she's elsewhere. That would certainly be something for us to add in an amendment. For the rest, I am taking up some of my questions, because so many have already been asked: I would certainly like to give you time to replicate some of my colleagues' comments, although I do not think they are relevant here. After all, we are working on a proposal and we will have to discuss the political aspects together in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your presentation and for the initiative you have taken. In a more usual period of time in the parliamentary system, you would probably not have had the same advantage, because it is probably the absence of a majority of governments that today creates a space for dialogue in our parliamentary assembly, allowing us to examine your initiative. I welcome this and intend to contribute to the successful conclusion of your special bill. I would like to make a few preliminary comments and to address a few more technical questions. In short, what you are proposing to us, and that is very well, is first and foremost to set objectives, in accordance with international conventions or certain provisions of international law or European law, and to propose an institutional methodology for achieving those objectives. Of course, it is not the law that will now determine the content of the policies to be implemented in order to achieve the objectives in question, we agree on this point. I can therefore understand that some of my colleagues are asking questions. What you want is to remove any institutional obstacles by what could be called a mechanism for enhanced cooperation between the different levels of power. I agree with you on the methodological objective, but perhaps I wonder how to have all the legal assurances to achieve the methodological objective. In particular, you recall in your summary report that the sixth reform of the State provided for alternative mechanisms that have never been implemented, because you have found that they are insufficient or cumbersome. I therefore first wonder why you did not start by working on the reform of the aforementioned mechanisms. How far do you think they should be kept? Shouldn't certain provisions, in particular Article 16(4) of the Special Act on Institutional Reform, be repealed? How far, if I may say, is it appropriate to combine the mechanisms that you are planning in this proposal, and what already exists in the special law? Why, in order to establish the constitutionality of your proposal, have you not referred (unless I am mistaken) to Article 169 of the Constitution? In other words, would it not be in our interest to rely on article 169 to better justify the substitution of new procedures for cooperation with an obligation of result to what was possibly provided for under article 169 of the Constitution? The second aspect, always preliminary: when I read your proposal, I wonder how far there is an obligation to achieve results. Understand me well: how far are the different entities of the country obliged to exercise their powers in compliance with the obligations arising from the international conventions on combating global warming. When I read your provision of Article 3, the obligation is rather to coordinate. It is not an obligation for each entity, in the exercise of its own powers, to contribute to achieving the objectives. It's very different. Therefore, it would not be appropriate to establish as a principle that each entity exercises its powers in accordance with its obligations under international commitments. Recognizing that not all international commitments contain directly applicable provisions. There is, no doubt, a problem in terms of methodology. But that is precisely the difficulty that we are facing: some take the pretext that certain provisions are not directly binding in order not to achieve the objectives to which we have committed ourselves. It should therefore be clarified, in one of the first articles, that different levels of authority impose an obligation to achieve results in the light of international obligations. The second aspect which I think is important is that the interdepartmental conference is more than a place of coordination. In view of the evolution you want to give it, it becomes a place of decision. I would almost say an intergovernmental body. If it is not a supra-governmental body – as the European Council might be – we are not far from a body that would see its authority superior to that of each individual government. In any case, for this matter. It is so true that the national plan – which could be described as a federal plan, if it allows some to better accept it – contains binding provisions. It is adopted by the inter-ministerial conference. What is its legal status? It is not a legislative act. Is it a regulatory act? If so, in what form? Honestly, the text of the special law does not, for the moment, define the legal status of this binding norm, which would be decided – indeed, after several consultations and opinions – by the sole will of the interministerial conference. That is what motivates me to say that this body is something other than a body of consultation and cooperation; it is a decision-making body whose authority is vested in all the governments of the country. Indeed, several binding provisions apply to all levels of authority and to all their administrative services. That is why I come back to my reasoning on article 169 of the Constitution. If one goes so far as to argue that the inter-ministerial conference is a decision-making body whose choices are, in short, necessary – through the national plan – at all levels of power, then it is important to base this competence on Article 169 and to reform the alternative powers which were organised under the same Article. Otherwise, we may experience difficulties of interpretation or conflict of authority. I come to a third essential aspect, which Mr Nollet mentioned in particular. This is the legally blurred notion, I will not hide from you, of "multi-level dialogue". It must be said that its composition and organization are very vaguely presented in your text. If it is a question of indicating that we are in a kind of informal procedure of consultation of actors in society, in the broadest sense, it can be admitted, even if it is not clear which body should regulate the organisation of this "multi-level dialogue". Is this the role of the interdepartmental conference? Will it be up to each level of power, as your text suggests, to organize a form of consultation? This issue is crucial, because this multi-level dialogue, which is not otherwise institutionalized, has important advisory powers. Thus, in the principle of progression, if a change is justified, it must have been discussed in the multi-level dialogue. More specifically, what is the latter, since the multi-level dialogue is not organised? Can we not fear a risk of legal uncertainty with regard to the obligation to justify the amendment in application of the principle of progression? In another provision, you still recognise the role of this multi-level dialogue by mentioning it in Article 13, which refers to the preliminary draft of the Integrated National Energy-Climate Plan, stating that it "takes into account the conclusions of the multi-level dialogue". Again, since this structure and level of opinion are unclear, it is not clear how these conclusions can be validly expressed. Moreover, with regard to Article 13, it is not clear whether the public consultation which is to take place under the 1999 European Regulation precedes the conclusions of the multi-level dialogue, whether these conclusions are part of public consultation or are prior to them and whether they are themselves subject to public consultation. The modalities are probably to be clarified. Surprisingly enough, but we can talk about it again, what should we deduce from the role of interparliamentary consultation and its powers? Is it only competent to give an opinion on the inter-ministerial conference or is it appropriate to consider that there is a more direct association of inter-parliamentary consultation with the inter-ministerial conference? I do not believe that the latter's decisions can escape any control on the part of the legislature. We will have to look at how to articulate this. I agree with the view expressed by Mr Nollet. I believe that you have left this informal body which exists today and which does not involve the representatives of the Parliaments of the Communities. You may also have done so to take account of the delicate institutional and linguistic balances, and you have therefore not mentioned the Parliaments of the Communities, except that of the German-speaking Community and, in a way, the Flemish Parliament, which exercises both levels of competence. But the Parliament of the French Community cannot be excluded since both at the interministerial conference and at the federal agency there are representatives of these levels of power. It would be rather contradictory for a parliamentary assembly to be excluded from the assembly, from the co-operation and co-decision process, whereas through the inter-ministerial conference and the federal agency, the Communities were involved. Finally, I believe that it will also be necessary to be precise when, in the definition of the Integrated National Energy-Climate Plan, the obligation of explicit motivation to derogate from obligations under European regulations will be determined. It is said that this must be explicitly stated. Who assumes it? The interdepartmental conference I suppose and perhaps the agency, since sometimes it is it that has the initiative of the project or the preliminary draft, sometimes it is the interdepartmental conference that has to adopt both the preliminary draft and the draft. By the way, it is clearer for the project than for the preliminary project. In particular, I believe that the arrangements for organising the public consultation on the preliminary draft national plan should be decided by the interdepartmental conference rather than by the agency itself. This seems to me more respectful of our traditions of political responsibility of the organs of our rule of law. That's a set of thoughts. There are still others on a more technical level, but I believe that the key question is how far beyond cooperation is to have a decision-making body that is ultimately superior to the authority of each government.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u33	I would also like to thank the academics for coming, but I do not want to hide the fact that my group was very disappointed with their work. They've identified a problem. There are divided powers, but they seem to invent hot water for that, namely the special law. That's a fantastic technique. Mobility and road safety are very divided competences. The objectives are therefore laid down in a special law. Health care is also a very divided competence. The objectives in this area are also covered by a special law. For the budget, too, your reasoning can almost be followed in full. You referred to the integrated national plan, Mr Lavrysen. That's the same thing. Europe is looking at budget entities 1 and 2. How's it gonna be fixed? The objectives are laid down in a special law. Honestly, if it were that simple, it would probably have happened here a long time ago. Another point is the re-federalisation. I have just noticed that Mr Lavrysen laughed at a comment made by Mr De Roover. Now I see one of the experts shaking no. All crazy on a stick, but what about now? Mr Lavrysen's slides show a very clear distinction between what is federal and what belongs to the powers of the Länder. Who determines the objectives of the powers? That is either the federal government, or the states, depending on the subject at hand. You want it to be federally determined now. Why do you need a special law? That is because you are changing the division of powers, otherwise you would not need a special law and you would have come to Parliament with an ordinary law. You place your goals at the federal level. Now they can be determined by any state. By making it federal again, you're re-federalizing. There were three ways you could work. As experts, you could work within the current framework. Then you would have come here with a legislative proposal and possibly proposals for a decree and a proposal for a cooperation agreement as an annex. That is the way we are doing it now, and that is how we are working. At some point such a point will be discussed at the Consultative Committee. That is the neutral way in which one works according to the current division of powers. You won't. There are two possible political choices. You can defederalize. We may not have defederalised too much in this country, but simply far too little. You could do the same. When all powers are placed with each Land, there are perfectly homogeneous powers and each Land can approve and immediately achieve all objectives. The implementation and definition of the objectives will then be at the same level. However, you do not. You are making a different political choice, namely the re-federalisation. After all, if you are not refederalising, I see someone here shaking no, why do you need a special law? You referred to the fact that seven institutions were mentioned. By the way, you are free to mention the names of the authors, especially Mrs Wouters and myself; we are not afraid of them. Of course you will set up seven new institutions. After all, what do you propose in your proposal? The terminology is also correct. It says, "set up." Article 8 states that "shall be established'. Article 9 states that "shall be established'. Of course, you do that because you give those institutions, some of which actually exist, a completely different statute, because you want to lock them in a special law. The existing institutions are thus effectively changing completely and becoming new institutions. I must congratulate you on the accuracy of your proposal, because you correctly use the word 'founded'. Can there be a climate issue in relation to the objectives listed, as Mr Kurt Deketelaere has said a few times? Of course you can. Mrs Lalieux asks whether the proposal of special law gives rise to a subjective right. It doesn't have to be. Subjective law has existed since 1804. Due to the very simple application of Article 1382 of the Civil Code on public liability, legal proceedings can of course be initiated. What also surprises me, although it is so Belgian that I could have expected it, is that certain objectives are set. However, in order to achieve these objectives, you do not take action, but believe in institutions. I agree with what Mr Lachaert said about this. Well, if the creation of many institutions would lead to good policies, then Belgium was a truly fantastic country. So I think it is a very peculiar choice to think that policies will be taken from the institutions in one step.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u34	It is always the case that the institutions must change in order to come to policy (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u35	Mr Calvo, your group has already spoken. Let the other groups speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u36	Mr President, I should like to answer Mr Calvo's question. Mr Calvo, the institutions must operate in such a way that it is possible to achieve an efficient policy. This implies that the number of institutions is limited and that the powers are equally divided; this aside, as is usually the case, Mr Calvo's question had nothing to do with the debate that is now under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u37	Absolutely. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, there is no need to be alarmed, we are used to that, Mr Calvo is always doing so. After a while, you'll get used to it. I have therefore raised the questions from my group. You can now put forward ten thousand arguments to show that you are not refederalising. I don't know what you're gonna come up with, but I think your arguments come from an ivory tower, from an academic world. Anyone who submits a special law in parliament is effectively engaged in a state reform. So that's what you're doing and nothing else. I'm looking forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u39	Mr President, I thank the speakers. Although I did not have the opportunity to attend the entire presentation, I have all the documents in front of me. I must be aware that I was in the Health Committee, where we will be studying the special law in depth in the near future. I would like to make a number of points and ask several questions. First of all, we are all extremely attentive to the appeals of the population and, more specifically, of young people. In a way, you are responding to these calls with a concrete proposal, which we can only welcome. As far as I am concerned, I wonder whether we should not have moved forward 20 years ago. But that remains a question. For the rest, the most important thing is that we are now moving forward. I will not repeat what has been said by several speakers. However, it is obvious that if we want to move forward urgently, since we are in an emergency, we must not go too fast to prevent what will be put in place from being applicable. I am referring here to several legal interventions. I am not a lawyer, but it will be necessary to ensure that this law can be implemented and that it does not suffer any pain. If that were the case, we would obviously not have achieved our objective. I would like to make a first remark about this special law, after comparing some documents that come from the international level. In fact, in the Kyoto Protocol, the recitals to the Climate Governance Regulation and the Energy Efficiency Directive, there is a systematic discussion of a socio-economic reality. In all the documents that I have covered in the Chamber's work – I am thinking in particular of the resolutions on the various COPs – there is reference to these documents. I have the feeling that here we do not find the notion of cost-effectiveness, nor the consideration of the socio-economic reality of the country. Perhaps you have referred to it, but to date I do not think these aspects are sufficiently clear. It should not be forgotten that, regardless of the realization of a special law and its implementation, there is its understanding. Indeed, in my view, the public is also entitled to a number of explanations – I agree here with the comments made by two of my colleagues – to which it will have to be explained that all the decisions that will be taken will have to be financial and not always at the expense of taxpayers, some of whom are less well off than others. I see clearly that there is a willingness to create institutions. But ultimately, some of the institutions you mention are already in operation. Adjustments may be necessary to enable them to be more effective. With regard to the Inter-federal Climate Agency, in December we had a very lively discussion in plenary with the Prime Minister, who had already committed himself to setting it up. I would like to focus on the Independent Standing Committee of Experts on Climate. This is very interesting and important, especially since all our parliamentary work is systematically based on expert reports. As not all experts in all subjects, we rely on experts. The most important is the quality of the expert and the certainty that there is no conflict of interest in the appointment of experts. I see that we will have to be careful, or that we will need guarantees of independence. Perhaps this will be the subject of an amendment. What you mean is understandable, but it will probably be necessary to be more precise, upstream, in order to avoid such potential problems or criticisms related to the appointment of experts. Experts will have to handle several disciplines correctly. Among these disciplines, I do not find – perhaps it is a mistake or an inattention on my part – an expert in taxation and mobility. These are two aspects that have been addressed in our resolutions. I can't find those two notions. Attention will have to be paid to covering the overall pattern of the different concepts, as well as to ensuring the perfect independence of the experts, perhaps through a procedure in the Belgian Moniteur, but this will have to be defined. I worked for 20 years in the pharmaceutical sector. It turns out that if we want the experts to be blameless and available, it has a certain cost. This is a more general issue, which goes beyond the question of experts. You intend to set up different institutions, or at least make them work more effectively. Do we have any idea how much this will cost? I don't think it's free. We talked about climate day. This is obviously an excellent initiative. Is there any specific reason why the month of April is considered to be the month that must see this day of the climate? I come to a question that has already been asked. This morning, we had a little concern about the authors of the text. I understand that there are a number of teachers but, to my knowledge, eleven people participated in the production or writing of the text. Do you guarantee today that your only hearing represents everyone's opinion? Or should other colleagues, who have participated in the drafting of this document, also be heard, especially since we will continue the hearings? My next question might make some smile, but I think it's important. Mr. Nollet, it seems to me, spoke of the paternity of the special law. For my part, I read that Minister Marghem was claiming the maternity of work done on the basis of an investigation she had requested, the results of which were known in November. You relied on these results to be able to write this special law. Maternity? Paternity? Who can gain "responsibility"? Or, rather, who is behind the drafting of this text, this initiative? I have seen that there are three lines on the possibilities for action at the level of federated entities – we are talking about a lot – and at the provincial and local levels. As a municipalist, I remain convinced that initiatives must be encouraged at the local level. They have the advantage of being understood quickly by citizens. In addition, local authorities can also take initiatives that can produce effects very quickly. This may need to be emphasized. As a result of our discussions in the Climate Committee, another element needs to be clarified. I refer to the intermediate objectives that you quote in the text. It states: "to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Belgium by at least 55% by 2030." We've always had this discussion. Where do these 55% come from? Personally, I never got an answer. You have included them in the text. To my knowledge, it's a notion...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u40	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u41	Don't I have the latest version?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u42	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u43	I will therefore ask the question for the 65%, but I would like to know where the 55% used previously came from. I therefore ask the question of our eminent professors. Then, when we go through the special law with all the demands and achievements, the impression could be that not much has been achieved. Perhaps we should insist on some of the elements that we are pioneers towards. I am thinking, among other things, of recycling and recovery of packaging waste. According to Eurostat, Belgium is the best country in this area, as it is also the case with the circular use of materials. We can thank you for the work base you provided us with. It has the merit of existence and allows us to move forward. Unfortunately, it seems to me that the road is still long, knowing that time is limited.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u44	Mr President, I thank the speakers for their intervention and for the contribution that led to this special bill. At the outset – this is the link to these 2030 targets of 65 or 55 % – I would say that the PTB has introduced a bill in parallel to the one that colleagues have introduced to meet the authors' ambition to achieve this 65 % reduction, not 55 % of greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. We have been committed to fulfilling this initial commitment of the authors. You have been questioned about this and you will provide us with details of these percentages. This seemed important to us because, in terms of ambition, a number of scientific experts consider the 65% to be a standard to be achieved. We're back from afar. It is true that a few weeks ago, a little controversy arose with Mr Nollet about this interparliamentary resolution, which set the only objective of achieving a more ambitious target than the 40 per cent previously set. This was already enough above the Belgian target of -35 % by 2030. At the time, in 2016, the FEB found that -35% for 2030 was disproportionate. Here we're talking about -65 percent. How did you get to that percentage? Are there IPCC recommendations? You said it was not a re-federalization. I believe you. But I think this is still a response to Belgium's institutional problems. The analysis that the PTB makes of the climate blockage in our country is based on two essential things: the Belgian institutional lasagna creates significant blockages and the blind confidence given to the market in order to solve climate problems leads us to an obvious impasse. In this context, you offer a creative response to these institutional problems. You say that we are not re-federalizing, but I think it would be important to recognise the problem of the institutional structure of our country as a source of problems. Perhaps it would be a matter of re-federalizing this energy policy in some way, like others. Doing this analysis would be important. You propose the creation of an interministerial climate conference in which you add the additional actors of the Communities. We can understand the reasoning, but aren't you going to complicate things yet? It is already difficult to reach a four-way agreement, won't it be even more complicated? Is it possible to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 as desired without imposing binding standards on the largest polluters? In particular, we know that the largest companies in our country are responsible for 40% of emissions. So far, we have gone through a ETS system of permits to pollute. Should we not have binding standards? Should these standards not be integrated into the national plan you are talking about? How could this be done institutionally? At what level of power can one come with binding standards if it was a chosen political option? In any case, we at the PTB are defending this option. If it were politically retained, how could we act at the institutional level? This is the same question for institutions that seem to me to be useful in creating to achieve climate objectives, for example the creation of a climate investment bank or a renewable energy company that would be public and could intervene in relation to the lack of private initiative. How could such organizations fit into your institutional framework? The first principle of your text, that of social justice, is indeed inescapable. For example, in the Netherlands, the impact of climate measures on a poor family is 5 per cent, compared with 1.5 per cent for a more affluent family. Other studies in France show that the impact is four times greater on a poor family. This question is therefore inescapable. I know that the exercise to which you have submitted does not give a political orientation but have you considered the concrete way to reassure this more precarious population that the transition will be social? How can we do that? How can we avoid the least wealthy paying the bill? I conclude on the issue of nuclear power. Do you integrate it into your scheme?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u45	Mr President, I would like to return to two or three points, while thanking our speakers for their presence and patience this afternoon. The commissions are long but the file is important. We must be able to look at it in depth, whether here or in the Public Health Committee, where the text will come from. I would like to go back to two or three notions as they were presented and also to relay the question of one of my colleagues who was talking about the subjective rights of the citizen. Will this text grant a particular right of action to the citizen for a number of possible remedies or other actions? What is, in this participatory approach, the impact of the citizen and of the remedy he might possibly bring and of the rights granted to him? In Article 4, paragraph 2, you say: "Any government decision that is reasonably likely to have an impact on climate or on climate policy must be subject to a prior assessment of that impact". This paragraph is relatively elastic, if you allow me to express it. When the relative word is in the text, it is relative! Did you get any data? Are there notes that define in this area what can be understood by what you put in this document? In paragraph 3 of the same article, you define the four principles, including the principle of social justice and the principle of mutuality longer and defined otherwise. I think everyone is in favour of the principle of social justice. Is there a consensus in the doctrine or in some documents on the principle of social justice? Is that a somewhat general or generalist definition? How do you feel about this? As far as the Agency is concerned, you are talking about the secondment of a number of officials who will be actors. I would not like to add complexity to complexity. There will be officials seconded at four or five levels of authority, even six if the Communities are taken into account. We're gonna end up with officials with different skills. Should they be found in a complementary way? Will there be a function profile? We will also find ourselves with people with different salaries and statuses. It will therefore be up to us to arrange the situation, if I may say so, in order to be effective on the ground. I wish I had your opinion on that. We are talking about climate finance, which we have already mentioned in this committee. There is also the problem of international climate finance. I would like to know your assessment of the situation. My last two questions concern the interdepartmental conference of the four climate ministers. However, if we talk about the Communities, that is more than four ministers, and not necessarily climate ministers. If I understand correctly, we are in a concept of Regions and Communities. Who's gonna take the lead? Do you think it is necessary to establish a turning point, to entrust the Climate jurisdiction to the Prime Minister of Canada or to another person or body? I would also like to know your opinion on the matter. As part of the management of this process, public management is of course mentioned. Have you ever gone further in this process? Or has the exercise remained legal, in order to try to find an assembly that could work? Have you ever gone into the analysis that could be done on the subject? These are the additional information I would have liked to have received, while thanking our guests for their interventions this afternoon. I would also like to apologize for comings and goings, but other committees are under way and the agendas are shaking.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u46	Mr President, I am trying to be brief. A great deal has already been said. I would like to comment on some of the things that have been said and put a question to the authors, whom I would like to express my thanks for their patience today and for their preparation for the content of the last few months. A colleague said you seem to want to tighten the screws. I think this is a good description and I don't think that's a problem at all. I think that, in terms of climate ambition, the screws should indeed be tightened. The same applies to culture or the structure of cooperation. I would like to thank the honourable Member for that very accurate description which demonstrates the urgency. I also think that it is important to consider the preliminary path you have outlined. I am surprised that a number of colleagues, especially the former majority, are now rejecting some of the findings presented, which are the result of a governance exercise ordered by the same majority. When ordering an exercise, one must also be prepared to work with the findings that come from it. The preliminaries are very important. A second point concerns Mr Vuye. I find it almost funny how Flemish nationalists suddenly become allergic to institutional discussions. Mr Vuye said just now that we will not try to solve a substantive problem with an institutional solution. However, this is something that nationalists constantly do, formulate an institutional response to a substantive problem, sometimes even when there is no substantive problem. Here there is a substantive problem, namely a lack of cooperation and coordination. This is therefore an institutional discussion and an institutional solution to an institutional problem, in particular the total lack of a framework for climate cooperation. I understand those Members who are hungry for substantive measures, but I think that the two should be done. I sincerely believe that, Mr Lachaert. That is not to avoid the debate on the measures. Measures, debate on measures and implementation of measures deserve a different institutional framework. Without being too polemical, I note that Mr Vuye is almost applying for a real refederalisation of climate and energy. The experts are so friendly, so constructive and so possilist to get to work with the current institutional framework. They say not to opt for refederalisation, but to look for a way to implement and facilitate more cooperation and coordination from the current institutional framework. Mr Vuye, if you do not want to work on this constructivity, you are actually pushing yourself towards a brutal, direct refederalisation of climate and energy. It is one or the other, because the current system, ladies and gentlemen, is not working. Four climate and energy ministers working side by side do not reduce CO2 emissions, on the contrary. I would like to invite Mr Vuye to reflect on some of his ideas, because they contain firstly a number of inconsistencies and secondly, he then applies for another debate, in particular one on re-federalisation. I come to my question to the authors. You rightly say that people who blame you for wishing for many new institutions and officials are wrong. You formalize a number of existing mechanisms and try to bring knowledge and commitment together. I would like to draw the debate with you as proposers and as a bridge between the academic world and the parliamentary debate. There may be opportunities to simplify the debate. That is my question to you. The caricature of your proposal is totally wrong: either one is of evil will, or one does not know what exists today, and both are problematic Perhaps there are possibilities and you can see them for yourself, because you have worked on them together for a long time. Do you see anywhere in the proposal that you have put forward today, any possibility of simplifying structures and making a few things more lean? Involvement and support for the proposal should not hinder the debate. I'd like to ask that question. Do you have openness there and do you see opportunities to make things a little easier, without compromising on important objectives and the dynamics that we really need to bring about, one of more climate cooperation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u47	Mr President, in my turn I would like to thank the academics for their work and for their explanations. Today we have had two forms of discussion. We have had the formal discussion about various levels of competence and the substantive discussion. As far as I'm concerned, both can be distinguished. Both are very interesting and interesting. Of course, it is also the first, because it is not politically neutral in the light of the history of our country. Mr Calvo is right that, if we want to pursue effective policies, we do need coordination. Coordination is not only a problem of possible division of competence, but sometimes also a problem within the same level of competence. In my very brief experience as Secretary of State for Sustainable Development, I have been able to experience this at the federal level. I cannot get the impression that the same thing is happening in the regions, where there is a panoply of powers, which are very relevant to achieve the objectives you are suggesting. In any case, the majority of the powers lie at the level of the Regions, where the most important measures will have to be taken to achieve the fastest targets. Mr President, this debate on competence is interesting. I believe that, in my humble opinion, there is some re-federalisation in this. In this respect, I look forward to the opinion of the Council of State on this matter and to the possible opinions or reservations of some constitutionalists on this matter. However, this discussion should not cause the discussion to snow under the ground. After all, it is too important, and that would be a bad signal to those enthusiastic young people who are on the streets today, it would be a bit of a blow to their face. However, I have one suggestion and one suggestion. We discussed climate a few years ago, in the context of discussions on the sixth state reform, for example, because there were some transfers of powers on climate, limited but they were there. The question then was whether there should be a mandatory cooperation agreement. There was some discussion between those who finally concluded that agreement. Some were in favour of the compulsory, some for the voluntary, eventually opted for the voluntary. I would like to ask the following question in connection with the discussion of competences which we are hearing here and which you have already been proactively addressing. In order to avoid these discussions and to focus primarily on the substance of the matter, can we not make it much easier for us to say that we are making a cooperation agreement on objectives, some call it a pact, with their translation into a federal climate law and regional climate decrees, which are similar? This avoids a lot of institutional discussions. We have already discussed the enforceability of the objectives and the sanctions. The history in our country is that we have sometimes made international agreements on climates that we have not respected and that we have fought for years about who had what share of the responsibility for it. If we put this into a special law or an ordinary law, it is not legally neutral for the citizen or for the pending procedures that have just been referred to. We have included very, very modestly in the last special legislative amendments of 2014 climate resilience clauses. If one goes to a special law, then one should actually go much further in those mutual accountability clauses. I would like to ask your suggestions on this. One must at least agree on the extent to which a particular government which does not respect the agreements within its areas of competence bears responsibility and how that responsibility is enforceable by other governments. If we do not do so, we will get what we have seen in the past. I'm afraid it's gonna be good intentions. In fact, this is a resolution. Do you have any suggestions on the subject? You are actually setting reduction targets at Belgian level when we have various governments that will have to cooperate in this area. In Europe, we have these objectives at European level and we need to negotiate them in order to reach an agreement. I fear that if we have to negotiate in a country like ours, we will be busy for a while. Can keys, distribution mechanisms or linear agreements be included in that legislation? What suggestions do you have on this matter? Then I have an improvisational question because of the lack of technical knowledge regarding the feasibility of the objectives. You set the bar high. I am asking myself about feasibility. Sometimes it is a good thing to aim high because the arrow always falls slightly, but if the law is dropped one is under legal obligations. That's not neutral. It may be that some people today blame you for the fact that the objectives are far too high or unachievable, but that the evolution of science makes these very modest objectives. My question is whether you can put variable factors into that? Some countries have introduced the age obligation into the pension regulation and thus have an automatic adjustment of pension legislation in function of viability. Would it be an idea to pursue feasible and ambitious objectives which would make them adaptable to the progress of science and economic growth? The more economic growth, the more one could step up. Or is this more of a wishful thinking? I have another personal thought. In your proposal for a special law, you referred, among other things, to certain constitutional articles, Article 7a and Article 23. Of course, I am also very sensitive to the affordability and accessibility of the Constitution for all. Your proposal for a special law does not set out any objectives in this respect. I believe that we should also have objectives in this regard. What do you advise us in that? Then I have one more question that might come a little late. We have our National Climate Commission. You're suggesting we change it. In the previous legislature, I find this phenomenally interesting in the light of the debates that will take place in a pre-electric environment between the political groups in the coming weeks and months, the Vandenbroucke Pension Committee had a book with a zipper of proposals and a zipper of calculations suggesting measures in this area. I found that phenomenally interesting. Critics will say that we have not done enough with this, while others will say that we have taken a lot of steps towards that scientific work. We can always discuss scientific work, but my question is whether there is not enough time for academics from all our universities to submit a document on this matter which could be delivered to the future reformers of the various governments. That should then be a guide with objectives and concrete suggestions and calculations, because it is in that policy framework that we, as politicians, should act.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, I will add a few more questions, despite the fact that some have already been asked here and there. With regard to the objectives that are being put forward, the question is what is the basis for them. Is there any calculation, I suppose, of what measures are needed to achieve the objectives, what the costs and benefits are and so on? Before deciding anything, one would of course like to know whether it is feasible and affordable and who will do so. I assume that these figures exist and that they can also be made available to the Committee on Health in the context of the examination of the legislative proposal. There are also a number of new bodies, along with some existing bodies. It is not so clear whether the existing bodies will then be abolished. I cannot see directly from the texts what is happening with all the obligations that have been imposed on the partnerships today. Think of the National Climate Commission: it is assigned certain tasks in various cooperation agreements today. I have had the honour and pleasure of sitting on this committee for a number of years, so I know what she's doing. However, I do not see in the texts today how this is being dealt with and resolved. A major problem with the Committee on Climate Change today is that when objectives are agreed, everyone is in favour of adopting high targets, but then nobody is in favour of achieving them themselves. When the first texts on Burden Sharing were published, everyone agreed that there should be very high objectives. That's what was almost fought for? Until the time it was said: if we all did what we ourselves wrote in our coalition agreement that we would do. However, that was a very simple method of dividing things up. In the end, it took us a few years to achieve this. In short, I have a lot of questions about how this system can work so much better than the system we had. The objectives are mandatory here: for example, those of 65%. Some things you haven't filled in but have been filled out here by the proposers. I suppose this is done to make things more enforceable before the courts, as has happened in the Netherlands. However, if we look at what exists in the field of European law, this effort sharing decision is already enforceable before the European Court of Justice today. Then the question is: where is the added value of this story? I also see a number of issues in the texts I am asking myself. It is removed for a large part from politics and from administration, to new bodies and that sort of thing more. In this way, a part of democratic representation is lost. For example, look at that permanent expert committee. It is proposed that the Senate should appoint the members, while there are already members in the Senate who are not elected but who are also appointed. Then one committee is appointing the other committee. However, it is not clear to me for what period. The word "permanent" suggests that it is a long-term appointment. Maybe for life, that's not very clear to me. Then I wonder how these people are effectively controlled and dealt with on what they are putting forward. A special law states that the necessary appropriations must be provided for these people. My question is: who decides what the necessary appropriations are? Is it that expert committee itself that will say what the necessary appropriations are? Then we may be in a system where the amount will rise rather than go down, and I do have some questions. As far as the Agency is concerned, it is said that no new people will be recruited, but that they will be put together. However, there is also another logic in the story. Climate policy must never be separated from all other powers. Today, these climate people are in, for example, environmental and energy administrations. If they are removed and placed in an agency, are you talking about climate change people or also about energy people, environmental people and mobility people? It concerns almost every administration in the territory of that country. Those people should be meeting together. That's what I'm asking myself. For example, when we talk about the representation of the Communities, will the Community's climate administrations, or administrations dealing with them, such as education, meet somewhere in Brussels to represent the people of Eupen? Another issue is interparliamentary climate talks or the Interparliamentary Climate Committee. We have set up this body here ourselves. I have had the honour and the pleasure of chairing this climate committee and joining the cart. The composition was somewhat different from the composition that you experts put forward, but it seems to me to be a problem. The texts say that each delegation must be equal in size. I will return to the German-speaking Community. The Parliament of the German-speaking Community, representing 75 000 people, must be represented in your proposal as much as the Flemish Parliament, representing 6.5 million people. This seems to be somewhat unbalanced, especially if we are going to work with majorities to determine what is decided and approved. I see a democratic problem in that. If the voter votes for a particular policy, he will not get it, because the majority is determined by other people, who will follow the file up to retirement as an official, or will sit as an expert on a standing committee or a permanent expert panel. I have a few questions about that. The same applies to everything related to Burden Sharing. The reason why these cases are stalled is because of the excessive cost to a number of regions. Here objectives are set at the level of Belgium, but the objectives at the level of the regions are not divided. In what way will that happen? The lack of coordination or the problems we are now seeing are mainly about this. We point out to each other who should do what and who should bear what costs. This sometimes leads to hallucinatory discussions, but the question is how that is resolved in this story. We are talking about stories where there is something budgetary to put on the table. There may also be benefits. I'm not gonna put that under seats or couches. At some point, the government of a state will be dealt with. How is this going to be translated in this way? There are a number of questions to be asked. We have had questions about the climate over the last few weeks with the regularity of the clock on Thursday. I have heard many colleagues say that more needs to be done, but that this should not be paid by their constituents. That's something we're risking again here. I wonder if we can solve that problem with this particular climate law. Is it a solution to replace the existing institutions where problems arise because not everyone agrees on the way to which we have to go with other institutions which, in my opinion, are facing the same problem in the short term? In this respect, I think it would be useful to clarify a number of things. In what way can shifting the decision-making power from politics to administration and experts solve the problem? Or will it just undermine this? I look forward to your answers. I would very much like to give you the floor to answer the small questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u49	Mr President, we very much welcome all of these comments and questions, whether positive or negative, since our aim was to revive or invigorate the debate and to provoke, with our academic initiative, a reflection on a concrete element which is one option among others. This proposal for a special law is an option. Others were possible. But we have taken into account elements that we consider quite important, starting with urgency, then coherence and also this request for coordination. It is interesting to hear all the questions asked because, in reality, they were asked in the United Kingdom exactly the same way, apart from the fact that the structure of the country is not the same. If you refer to the literature ten years ago, there is a literature review of the success of this British climate law. Similar questions were asked and today they have found answers. For example, there is no sanction in this British climate law. However, it was accompanied by significant results through pressure from the independent committee, the possibility for Parliament to have a say in what is being done in the UK on climate issues, i.e. all sorts of rather political and transparent elements that have led to results. Other very important elements were the subject of these discussions in the UK, such as how to set long-term targets if we do not know how to get there. But at least one element of the discussion is solved by agreeing that we have to go. Then comes the decision, by the workings put in place, on how to get there which is obviously crucial. The difference with the situation in the United Kingdom lies in the fact that we are ten years later and that we have the Paris Agreement. We have a new European regulation. So we're not in the same situation anymore. We now have indications of Belgium's numbers and will, since Belgium, too, by the European Union, has made an international commitment to decarbonize our economy. Decarbonizing our economy isn't crazy. It cannot be expected that this will happen spontaneously. A legal framework must clearly set the direction to be taken. Will this legal framework give rise to litigation, as was the case in the Netherlands? I think the question is wrong. In the Netherlands, this dispute arose from the inertia of the country, at a time when the Paris Agreement did not yet exist and when the country had no climate law, which is still in the pipeline. It is, therefore, inertia that gives rise to litigation. Since then, as a result of British law, for example, there has been no excessive litigation, other than an attitude considered normal and documented. For the rest, there are very many questions, so I will divide them among my colleagues. However, I will respond to the question on the sponsors of the proposal. As I made clear at the beginning of my speech, we are the authors of the proposal, but five other authors could not be present today because of other obligations: Professor Jan Theunis of the University of Hasselt, Dr. Hendrik Schukens of the University of Ghent, and three researchers who contributed to the reflection. Since we want to involve all generations, we have also mentioned their names, but we are speaking on behalf of the group. We want to go beyond the question of the paternity or maternity of our proposal. We are extremely pleased that everyone wants to pass this bill, because that was our goal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u50	Thank you for the many questions that have been asked. I will try to answer some of those questions quickly. The first question was: Belgium is only responsible for 0.3% of emissions, why should we do anything? We can possibly wait with that. The answer is: Belgium has committed itself internationally, primarily through the Framework Convention on Climate Change, where we have committed ourselves to work internationally to prevent dangerous climate change. Secondly, we in Belgium, with the agreement of the various parliaments, have committed ourselves to the Paris Agreement, which states that we are trying to limit global warming to a maximum of 2° Celsius and seek to achieve well below 2°. Now it is said that we will try to limit warming to 1.5° Celsius. The Paris Agreement asks each Member State to submit an NDC, a National Determined Contribution: what will you, as a country, propose in an international context, the same for the European Union as an objective that counts? According to the Paris Agreement, Belgium must make its contribution, which is part of the European framework. Moreover, both the latest report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and the Emissions Gap Report, which examines what the various Member States and parties to the Paris Agreement have presented as National Determined Contribution, show that there is a huge gap. That is why there is a mechanism in the Paris Agreement to review and adjust the ambitions every five years. Some see the date of 2050 as a point of no return, although some see it earlier. If we do not succeed in controlling greenhouse emissions with the global community, then it does not look very good.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u51	You know that objectives are being pursued at European level. The question then is whether we will wait for the European Union to set targets or whether we will set long-term objectives ourselves, like other countries. We therefore propose to do the latter. The question then was whether there should be no route to it. Of course. 2050 is still far away. That is why we are saying that it might be wise to provide for an intermediate objective, as is done in a number of climate laws of other countries. We have proposed 2030. As far as the figures are concerned, only one figure is not in brackets in our proposal, in particular the final target for 2050. All the others are in brackets. After all, we are simple lawyers. We are proposing a framework to try to organise the climate governance of the country, not the ungovernability as some suggest. The completion of these precise objectives is a matter in which other experts and, of course, Parliament must play their part. Why did we register 65 there at a certain time? That was the most ambitious figure circulating. The intention was to draw some attention, and it seems to have succeeded because we did not expect us to be here today. Some of the objectives we have mentioned are those adopted at European level in December. We have listed the figures for the European targets in terms of energy efficiency, renewable energy and so on. We have said that this was not our competence. If we are asked whether we have passed it on, we obviously have not. What we are proposing is the framework. It is now up to the policy makers to fill that out. Objectives in themselves have a function. Mrs Misonne has already referred to the situation in Great Britain. That is where governments, with different compositions, have a clear long-term objective, and that is what we are working towards. That's not questioned. It may be that the Brexit raises questions again and again, but so far that has not been the case. Does that need to be further worked out? Of course. In our proposal, the key issue is the national integrated energy and climate plan. We didn't come up with that on our own. There is a December regulation, which was not long ago, which lays down in detail what such a national integrated energy and climate plan should mean. The dimensions are mentioned. There were questions about technological possibilities, competitiveness and so on. Looking at the different dimensions that need to be addressed in that plan, one of the plans concerns research, investment and competitiveness. That must therefore be an integrated part of it. As I said, that regulation is directly applicable. It shall not impose an obligation on Belgium to draw up an integrated energy and climate plan on the Joint Community Committee in Brussels. We believe that the design of these services requires intensive cooperation between all the departments, federal, regional and Community, which are working on the problem. Working with the National Climate Commission, as in the past, is, in our view, an impossible task. That national plan must be integrated. This means that the various measures must be coordinated. It is no longer a question of doing it like the first national climate plan. By the way, that was not a national climate plan at all, that was four plans and national were the staples to hold it together, but that was totally out of tune. According to the Regulation, the preliminary draft national climate and energy plan had to be submitted before 1 January. We've been working on that, but I'm inviting you to look at that plan. Progress has been made on the original climate plan. It's not four plans with a staple anymore. They have tried to structure the different parts, but each time the differences between the different regions are seen. The Consultative Committee approved that preliminary draft, but with all sorts of caveats. The question is asked what the power is, and so on. The regulation stipulates that the European Commission will look into this. I do not have a glass ball, but I suspect that the European Commission will be very critical of what is ahead. I said to my fellow Members that if the preliminary draft was a master's thesis, I would still have difficulty giving an adequate one. Moreover, in December, the Chamber adopted the climate resolution stating that ambitions should be higher. That too will have to be dealt with. I do not think it is possible to establish such an integrated plan, with the corresponding reporting, on the basis of the separate structures of the National Climate Commission that exists today. That is why we propose that these people should work together through secondment. I believe that there must be a degree of stability. Should all civil servants, directly or indirectly concerned with the climate, be included in this? Of course not! We're not gonna create a waterhead. The people who are posted must have the necessary links. There has been talk of coordination within a single policy level. That too will have to play. There was another question about the legal enforceability. It has already been answered for a piece. We expressly did not choose to do so for the reasons already mentioned. Of course, the existing legal instruments and possibilities continue to apply. We believe, for example, that the substitution mechanism, which is theoretically possible, is hardly practicable in practice. If it turns out that Belgium's climate commitments are not met, for example because public transport in one region is insufficient, then I do not think that the federal government will be able to quickly buy buses or, for example, install solar panels. The substitution right can be applied to a number of cases, for example if a small law has to be passed, but it cannot be applied to investments and related matters. What is the possibility of objectifying the Burden Sharing? This is not an easy task and it is precisely for this reason that it is one of the tasks that we provide for the Climate Expert Committee, which must try to develop a methodology. In one last point I would like to mention the cooperation agreements. Indeed, we believe that the basic cooperation agreement of 2002 should disappear, as should the National Climate Committee. After all, the content of that agreement is largely outdated, because it is mainly about achieving the standards of the Kyoto Protocol. We also think it is very important that the Communities are really involved. I am thinking, for example, of the objectives for buildings and everything that goes with them. The more ambitious the objectives become, the more important it becomes to achieve them. A cooperation agreement cannot be lifted by means of a special law. Moreover, the 2002 cooperation agreement provides for a six-month cancellation clause. Therefore, if the special law is approved, one of the parties will have to initiate the cancellation procedure, unless all parties agree to terminate that agreement more quickly. Those are the most important things I want to put in a nutshell.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u52	I give the floor to Mathias on the issue of the legal status of the plan, which is very important.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u53	Yes, absolutely. Thank you! First of all, in order to extend the end of Luc Lavrysen's intervention, I fully understand the feeling that the proposal to set up institutions was able to create without removing others. But there was this problem of linking with the existing law and with this difficulty of ending cooperation agreements, including the one establishing the National Climate Commission, by a special law. We really need to have this element in mind to understand why we cannot simply replace institutions with what is proposed. As far as the status of the national climate plan is concerned, I fully agree with Mr Maingain's statement on the legal uncertainty of the legal nature of this national plan, given that it would include, inter alia, binding measures. One way of responding to this – and this also echoes things that have just been said – is to enrich the proposal by providing, for example, for a form of assent, whether it be autonomous parliaments or by the Inter-Parliamentary Committee, precisely in view of the fact that there are binding measures, to ensure that these measures are supported by the various parliaments, which is also in line with the various elements that strengthen parliamentary control and which we felt was important to include in the proposal. I can also answer other plic-ploc questions. There were questions about the definition of principles. Indeed, some are more broadly defined, more precise than others. Again, these are things that can be enriched in the amendments. What we have tried to do, in particular by defining the principle of mutuality, is to start from elements that seem to us to be quite interesting in our work, including once again those of the information report of the Senate. And specifically with regard to this principle of mutuality, what was interesting was that there was a fairly new character at that level, which was to give a more positive interpretation of the principle of federal loyalty, which is, as you know, enshrined in the Constitution in Article 143. Several parliamentarians also wondered why there was no presence of the French Community in the delegations of the Inter-Parliamentary Commission. In our mind,- and this also refers to the remark made by the former President here on the relative weight of the various delegations in this inter-parliamentary committee - the idea was to avoid imbalance in French representation with respect to Flemish representation, since Francophones have more complex institutions that intertwine. If there were to be a representation of the Parliament of the French Community as such, there was this difficulty in relation to the Flemish who made the institutional link we know. The parliamentarians of the French Community are present in the Parliament of the Brussels-Capital Region and in the Walloon Parliament.It did not seem useful to us to foresee as such their association as a delegation, even if the French Community was part of this dialogue. With regard to the question of the compatibility of the proposal with the power of self-organisation of parliamentary assemblies enshrined in article 60 of the Constitution, let me first remind the parliamentarian who asked the question that this article 60 of the Constitution is addressed only to federal assemblies. It does not concern all the assemblies of the country. In the case of federated communities, section 44 of the Special Act on Institutional Reforms provides for autonomy in the adoption of by-laws. It already has a special law value at this level. Therefore, there is no difficulty in having a special law specify certain specific arrangements for the organization of assemblies. As far as federal assemblies are concerned, there are already certain restrictions in the legislation on the autonomy of assemblies. When certain procedures have been established for consulting the legislative section of the Council of State, the parliamentary committee responsible for monitoring legislative work – which you are about to delete – or the committees of inquiry, there are already legislative provisions that restrict this power of self-organization. Here, attempts have been made to do so in the most limited way possible, leaving it to the by-laws of the assembly to supplement these provisions, in order to avoid ignoring this constitutional provision. Care must be taken with the words "are created" or "are instituted" which can give the impression that each time they are new institutions. It is a very classic question of legistics. Even when an institution already exists in practice, when legally enshrined, these terms "are created" are useful. This does not mean that this institution did not exist before. The same is true when new legislation was introduced to replace the legislation created by an institution that had never existed before. It's some sort of legal fiction. With regard to sanctions, part of the answer has already been given by my two colleagues, Delphine Misonne and Luc Lavrysen. We did not want to strengthen the substitute mechanism, because it seems to us to be suffering from difficulties of both a legal and a socio-political nature. There are still serious doubts about the possibility of implementing it. For this reason, article 169 of the Constitution has not been invoked as the legal basis for the proposal for a special law, because it has a very specific scope, limited to the implementation of a right of substitution. I think there are a number of legislations that are effective, even though the sanctions are not as clear as they might be if we had tried to reactivate this principle of substitution. It should also be recalled that since it would be a special law, there is some legal force in the provisions enshrined in it, including the principles affirmed therein. We can imagine that they will have an interpretative value in the work of the various judges, but also that this is part of the standards of reference as rules for the implementation of federal loyalty, which can be controlled, inter alia, by the Constitutional Court or the Council of State, which might consider that legislation opposes this special law and which, on that basis, can be considered invalid. We're not going to have a controversy about the term "re-federalization." There is, obviously, a different meaning, dear colleague, of the conception that one can have of re-federalizations. I think the important thing here is that some mechanisms are involved in cooperative federalism. They are set up and clearly assumed as such in developments. It cannot be said every time that cooperative mechanisms are provided for re-federalization, in which case this would mean that very few subjects have been regionalised or communalized. Indeed, many cooperative mechanisms exist both in the special law on institutional reform, in the special law on financing and in a range of instruments that organize Belgian federalism. The question was also raised of the reason why climate day was taking place in April. I mentioned it quickly in the introductory presentation, but not all participants were present. Simply, we wanted a date that was not redundant with the federal parliamentary re-entry or even with the federated entities around September and October. We asked ourselves, in case these exercises were proposed at the same time, if the visibility would not be less. However, one of the objectives is to ensure visibility and bring climate issues to the forefront. Since the various COPs are very often held at the end of the year, there is already a media interest in this issue. It could be April or June. The question is not fundamental. As to the duration of the terms of office of the members of the Standing Committee, information was lost between the various versions of the document. We fully assume that. Six years were envisaged. It's gone. This proves that different elements still need to be improved by your amendments.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u54	Visibility is also important. It is thought that a special law has a visibility other than a cooperation agreement of which no one speaks, in any case in society. It is an element that has weighed the balance in our exercise. The question of principles should also be answered.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u55	The question of principles has indeed come back often. There is the principle of social justice, the principle of progress, the legal nature of the principles, the scope of the principles. These are obviously very important issues. Generally speaking, the principles are not absolute. These are standards, standards with very general, undetermined content, which find a large number of legal applications, mainly to guide governments, legislators in the development and implementation of policies. The primary role of the principles is a guiding role. They also have a role, as my colleague has said, in assisting judges in their interpretation, which can guide the interpretation of an obscure norm or which can be interpreted in a way that would, for example, be more favourable to social justice, if we were to hesitate between two interpretations of a text. We must not make them absolute standards. The principle of social justice is an extremely important principle. We did not propose a precise definition because if there is one principle that would lend itself to a political debate, that is the one. The mere fact of indicating this clearly shows our intention to put this issue of social justice at the heart of the debate. An input, an enrichment of the proposal in this area could be an amendment that would propose a very general definition of the principle, unless the judges were left to clarify that principle. This may be another option. As far as the principle of progress is concerned, it is directly reflected in the Paris Agreement. It is therefore a question of an international obligation of Belgium. It is a matter of systematically ensuring that our determined contributions at the national level are, whenever they are revised, more ambitious than the previous ones. This principle of progression is also a principle of non-regression, of standstill. We were asked about the possible links between the principle of progression and the principle of standstill. It should be recalled that the latter – in any case, from the point of view of environmental law specialists and constitutionalists – is not extremely binding, since a regression, even a significant one, in the protection granted to the environment can be justified on grounds of general interest, according to the Constitutional Court. This can, of course, be very broad, the only limit being respect for international law and European law. That is why I believe that, in this context, the principle of progress is stronger than that of standstill. It is indeed a cliquet effect, and that is how the Paris Agreement envisages it. With regard to the principles that are not defined in the proposal, it is certain that amendments could be made. Another possibility would be to leave it to the judge, if necessary, to interpret them. I will deal in a state of disorder with other questions that have been asked. First of all, with regard to multi-level dialogue, the provision that we have included in the bill is directly inspired by Article 11 of the Climate Governance Regulation. We have not intentionally been too precise in the way in which this dialogue is organised, which is left to the discretion of the Inter-federal Climate Agency, since there are many possibilities for this. We need to think about it widely and at all levels. From this point of view, the Agency should be given some flexibility. That said, this dialogue was not born of nothing. We refer to an example that worked in the Netherlands. This mechanism has been put in place to negotiate an energy agreement. The result is positive. This dialogue was so considered effective that the Dutch Government decided to renew it for the adoption of the Climate Agreement. So we have a source of inspiration abroad. That is why it would be interesting to understand how this was organised very concretely. According to my information, the dialogue has been set up in a well-structured way around the sectors that are very involved, such as building, energy, industry, transport, etc. We have examples abroad. I think it might be very interesting to draw on certain mechanisms in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u56	I shall pass the floor to the other speakers on institutional issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u57	Everyone in the room has thanked us, but we also wish to thank you. Our proposal was intended to bring about a policy debate. I'm sure that worked today. I am thinking of the speed with which we were invited, as well as the various questions that were asked. The interesting thing is that the problem is very complex and there is a tendency to oversimplify, but that has not yet happened here. Keep it that way. Many questions we received, about 80, have already been answered or were not real questions, but rather positions. For many questions you will also find an answer in our explanatory statement, which we have forwarded. We still wanted to make a number of points. A number of questions that have been asked are outside the international and European agreements that we have left. The debate here too should be based on international and European agreements. Furthermore, we have moved away from the existing division of powers. In particular, we have focused on two issues, namely the definition of a common objective and the need to have the means to achieve it in cooperation; in any case, it is important that the various authorities in Belgium decide together on the way forward and what objectives they want to achieve by when. As has rightly been pointed out by several parties, it is of course not only the federal government, the Communities and the Regions in their abstraction but also the various administrations and policy areas therein and the various other Belgian authorities. It was rightly pointed out that local authorities are also crucial in this regard. This is echoed here and there in the design; in a special law it is difficult to go much deeper into that. As far as principles are concerned, we have talked about general objectives and principles in Article 3 of the draft. There were questions about social justice among others. Some objectives are, of course, no different from adopting the principle of sustainable development, which has been established internationally and is also enshrined in our Constitution. Too often we realise that sustainable development is still not clear to everyone. It is therefore important to explicitly include this in the proposal for a special law. It has often been said that climate policy is at the expense of one or the other. However, a promising signal is the latest IPCC report. This has pointed out that action on climate policy must also take into account both its social, economic and environmental aspects of sustainable development. We must move forward together on these two aspects. Climate is just one of many goals to keep human existence on the earth viable. There are many other crucial factors. We have talked about biodiversity, as well as about nuclear and international safety. We must achieve all these objectives together. The remark was that that is also possible. It was a hopeful remark from the IPCC. We can achieve it together, in synergy. It doesn't have to be a trade-off all the time. Of course, we will have to change our thinking framework in this respect. As far as the institutions are concerned, since this is a proposal of special law, it cannot contain all the details and nuances. A fair remark was that further implementation will be required. This further implementation of a special law should also take place in Belgium at different levels. We are aware of that. There were very pertinent questions about the agency at this point. It has been pointed out that it is important for officials to be present in order to exchange views and prepare documents together, while at the same time having to have a foothold in their own administrations. That's right. We have already developed such systems in Belgium. There are examples of this. There is, for example, the IRCEL cooperation agreement and the Seveso cooperation agreement. Practically speaking, Belgium's permanent representation to the European Union is also a cooperation agency of many governments and officials, with different statutes. That usually works well and that can also work. Of course, this requires either a policy agreement or a legal agreement (e.g. in the form of a protocol agreement or a cooperation agreement). The Inter-Ministerial Conference already exists. The climate is now largely and mainly addressed in the Inter-Ministerial Conference on the Environment. The Consultative Committee shall lay down its rules of procedure and operation. The functioning of an Inter-Ministerial Climate Conference should also be further regulated. The question of the Presidency and the Secretariat was not clarified in the draft, which is a task for the Consultation Committee. It is indeed possible to keep that either at the level of the Environment or to move it to the level of the Prime Minister, and the Chancery as far as the Secretariat is concerned. This is an important policy question, which will have to be clarified. I have one final point before I give the floor to my colleague, Mr Billiet. There were pertinent questions about the scientific basis of climate policy. We need more objective facts. We need a knowledge center. Cooperation is promoted by the various Belgian institutions which can operate on the basis of an agreement on the same objective data. We cannot bomb each other with different reports from different institutions. That is why we put the expert committee in there. This seems to work very well in some countries. I noticed that on the one hand some of the questioners are asking for more objective facts in order to be able to take sound political decisions, but on the other hand they are afraid to give jurisdiction to an expert committee because it would undermine the decision-making powers of the political level. Well, we used a very delicate balance in the design, which you should also study thoroughly. We must be careful not to fall into the trap of asking more of the experts and at the same time fear that too much is being given away for the benefit of the experts. The right balance is important and depends on the line that is drawn in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u58	Thank you for all the questions and reactions that you have all contributed to the debate. I shall confine myself to a few points. Firstly, there are the climate policy institutions that are included in the proposal. I would like to remind you that there is a broad political, social and scientific consensus on the inadequacy of the National Climate Commission as an effective institutional climate policy framework. In the institutional agreement for the sixth state reform of 11 October 2011, therefore, seven years ago, it was already established that the National Climate Commission was unable to deliver the desired final results in the context at that time. There was a passage in which all those involved in the sixth state reform agreed to operate and strengthen them, so that they would work. I suspect that this agreement can also be found in the documents of the Chamber. There was therefore a political consensus on the non-workability of that institutional apparatus. In 2014, the Federal Council for Sustainable Development, together with all the key strategic advisory councils of the Regions in Flanders, were that the Mina Council and the Social and Economic Council of Flanders, their counterparts in the Walloon region and the Brussels Region also cooperated and signed an opinion identifying the complete inadequacy of that climate policy structure and seeking solutions. We have been able to look at the scientific work again after others have already published it. In the 2018 seminar cycle, the scientific consensus has joined that of civil society, with all possible stakeholders, including the business world, and with the political consensus. All the findings on the inadequate and inappropriate nature of these policies to implement the necessary policies have been made..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Along with the Paris Agreement, which inspired the regulation, there are political, social and scientific demands in our country too, which are extremely sharper than they were when it was adopted. That is something to take into account in the debates on which bodies are being set up and what it will cost, because something that does not work is certainly not cost-effective. That is a first point I would like to make. In a second point, I would like to refer to the independence of the expert committee with the disciplines represented in it. In our proposal there are two important safeguards for the independence of the expert committee. A first guarantee is that common sense itself has to do with the budgetary basis, the money tap for that committee, in particular the place where it is anchored in our institutions. You can read in the proposal that we are proposing that the budget be included in the budget. We have made this choice in the light of previous legislative work on institutions which clearly had to be able to work independently. A striking example of this is the Standing Committee P, which was set up in the aftermath of the crimes committed by the Gang of Nivelles in order to control the police forces and which it was clear that this should be possible to operate in complete independence and certainly outside the executive powers, with the ministries concerned. This has been discussed; the reading of these parliamentary preparatory documents is very interesting. The Council of State has added its ideas. The government has then proposed to include it in the budget of the donations, but it is distinct and distinct from both the Chamber and the Senate. In this way, the P Committee is currently financed, as are a dozen other institutions for which independence is essential. It is this formula that we are proposing, a financing that is separate from the classical powers. The second point of independence is the appointment. How do we select the people who will be on that committee? How does the appointment take place? In this respect, you will read in the proposal that appointments are made on the basis of a proposal from the universities and the institutions of scientific research. So there is talk of a recital. The final appointment is being made by the Senate in our proposal. A word of explanation on this. Given the great importance of the independence of this committee, it seemed to us to be an obvious choice to place the final appointment with the legislature rather than the executive. When one looks at legislative power in the whole of our federal state system and the way it is organized in the various entities, the Senate appears to be a fairly obvious choice because of its composition with parliamentarians from state parliaments, its current concept as a meeting place between the state parliaments and the federal government. This concept is perfectly consistent, we thought, with the completely transversal nature of climate policy within the distribution of competence packages. That explains our choice. About the numbers of people inside, compared to the expertise that is being asked, I can give you the following. A small piece of information and a partial answer is already the fact that the British Climate Committee is also doing it with a maximum of eight experts. They have a minimum limit of five and a maximum limit of eight. It's been running perfectly for ten years. If it's possible over there, why couldn't it be with us? That is a first point. A second point of reply is that the functioning of the Committee is, of course, supported by substantive expertise that is elsewhere. The text explicitly links to expertise in the Court of Auditors, to expertise in the Planning Bureau, to expertise in the Central Board for Business and that's more. There is therefore expertise that can be used elsewhere. She's also being valorized. One element of the Committee's concept is to valorise the expertise. The permanent secretariat will also include a study service. That's what happened in England, too. The aim is to provide supporting work in terms of content. That's it for the composition. I have another point about the delicate balance that my colleague Dries Van Eeckhoutte mentioned. I would like to stress once again that the powers of the committee lie in making recommendations, giving advice and interplaying with the public. There is no decision-making power in that. It works in Britain. There are recommendations there too. Sometimes they fall out better, sometimes less, but it works on the basis of that pattern. It is obvious, to the extent that the context of what one wants to decide lends itself to this, that a negative opinion or if one wishes to deviate from certain elements of an opinion leads to a more comprehensive statement of reasons if one wishes to do something else. It depends a little on the context of what one wants to do. As far as this balance is concerned, the Committee is fully in the consultative position, with recommendations. One final point I would like to make concerns compliance and the sanctions that have been addressed. Anyone who deals with enforcement issues, and that has been one of the key issues in my research for a long time, knows that there is also something like compliance support, organised support, which makes compliance very self-evident. With all the structures surrounding this climate policy today, we have very strong mechanisms of compliance support. They are partly anchored at European level, where the Commission's monitoring of the draft plans and the need to get them started when they come back to us will give part of the support for the objectives. This is also the case for reporting obligations. They are embedded in the system with many measures of transparency. All opinions and reports published in all possible corners and institutions of the country under climate policy will be public. There are therefore mechanisms for compliance support, transparency, reporting, and so on, which are particularly strong. I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u59	A question was also asked about government decisions that have an impact on climate policy, the so-called climate test. What we have in mind already existed with the so-called sustainable development impact assessment, which was integrated at the federal level into the RIA, the Regulatory Impact Assessment. The aim is to integrate this instrument into existing instruments that both the federal government and the regional and community governments have in preparing their policies. At the federal level, an adaptation of the royal decree is simply required. The Flemish Region has something similar, especially rules for good regulation. Such a climate test fits perfectly into that. It can therefore be integrated into existing instruments.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u60	The question was whether we were covering the international dimension. The whole exercise is obviously directed towards this international dimension, since the Paris Agreement is based on the emulation that will arise from States. Leaders are needed; state leadership in this area is essential. In this case, therefore, it would be a matter for Belgium to be able to take this position as a leader. Since part of the technical answers is contained in our explanatory memorandum, I think we will leave it to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1032x.u61	I think colleagues have no more questions to ask today. In any case, on their behalf, I would like to thank you very sincerely for your commitment to come and present your text and answer the many questions. I would point out to colleagues that a full report will be circulated as if we were in the conventional committee. It will be very useful to us for further work. Let me thank you all for the contribution to the debate. I would also like to tell you that while today the debate has been of good quality, as our guests have pointed out, the discussions have sometimes been of great interest. The complexity of the case is also so. As you said, we politicians are now expected at the turn of the day. It is now up to us to see what we are doing both with the text that has been written by university professors and with the claims that are brought to society. This is the continuation of the work and it will take place in the Health Committee during our work which will begin next week, as planned. Thank you again. Perhaps we will have to contact you again at the turn of one or the other question, either formally, informally, or in the Senate. I would like to thank the honourable senator, who has remained until the end of our work and who has not been able to speak, but she has not been mischievous in signs and gestures and we have been able to understand her enthusiasm at times! I also thank the services.
