ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic067x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we move quickly on to this afternoon's questions. Mr Bayet, your first question no. 55001194C has become de facto irrelevant. It is therefore logically withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic067x.u2	Madam President, Minister, as you know, the legislative framework for the fight against money laundering has undergone important developments in recent years. At European level, two directives have been adopted, namely AML 4 and 5 Directives. LAML 4 was transposed by the Act of 18 September 2017. As for AML 5, the deadline for transposition is 10 January 2020. These guidelines identify "taxable entities", such as credit institutions, accountants or tax advisers. They place a number of obligations on these entities, such as the identification of the beneficial owners of their clients or the obligation to report their suspicions of money laundering to the authorities. They also provide for enhanced cooperation between the Financial Intelligence Units (FIUs) of the European Union States with a view to combating money laundering more effectively. I think we all agree on that. The TIFC's 2018 Activity Report states that 33,445 reports of suspicion were provided to TIF. On this basis, 933 cases were transmitted to the judicial authorities for a total amount of more than EUR 1.7 billion. In two reports of 24 July 2019, the European Commission points out that there are still significant risks of money laundering in many sectors, such as the financial sector, gambling and professional football. The Commission concludes that the fight against money laundering would be more effective through further harmonisation at Union level, in particular through the adoption of a European regulation or the granting of "specific anti-money laundering surveillance tasks to an authorised Union body". In view of these figures and the concerns raised by the Commission, Minister, my questions are as follows. Have the rules laid down in AML 4 improved the effectiveness of the fight against money laundering? What is the status of the transposition of AML 5, since this text is to be voted on in early January? Do you have figures on the amounts that were recovered as a result of these legislative changes? What about cooperation with the FIUs of the other Member States? What attitude would the government take if the Commission proposed a European anti-money laundering regulation or even a European body that would deal more specifically with the fight against money laundering? I did not check if you were present at the last meetings, but I imagine you have already talked about it at European level. I'd like to know a little more.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic067x.u3	My colleague, the rules laid down for LMA 4 have made it possible to improve the effectiveness of the fight against money laundering. The amendment to the CTIF, in particular, is the introduction in the Act of September 2017 of an obligation to exchange with the supervisory authorities information relevant to the exercise of their powers. The TIF and the supervisory authorities of the subject entities shall regularly exchange information on compliance with the LBC-FT provisions and on the quality of suspicious reports sent to the TIF by the subject entities to enable the authorities to carry out their LBC-FT supervisory tasks properly. Since the 2017 law, numerous meetings have been held on, for example, the memorandums of understanding signed with the National Bank of Belgium – the supervisory authority for the financial sector. The implementation of the fifth AML Directive is under way and is coordinated by the General Administration of the Treasury. It is difficult to provide figures on the amounts that could have been recovered as a result of this legislative amendment because its impact on the fight against money laundering or the FT will only be felt in the medium to long term. It is therefore too early to draw any conclusions. While the detection of suspicious transactions by the subject entities is more effective under this new provision, it should be borne in mind that the effectiveness of this measure also depends on the follow-up given by the prosecution authorities to the transmissions of the TIF. In addition, the effectiveness of financial crime and money laundering prosecutions should be assessed over a period of time, taking into account the length of judicial proceedings in this area. As the statistics of international cooperation show, the effectiveness of cooperation with the FIUs of other States is still very good. In 2018, CTIF received 1,798 requests for information from its foreign counterparts, including 1,015 from its U.S. counterpart concerning spontaneous communications of information, and sent them to 958 requests. CTIF is an active member of the secure European communication system FIU.NET and currently uses FIU.NET's match3 technology to automatically match large amounts of data with other CRFs from other EU members in a decentralised, anonymous and secure manner. There is always a need to distinguish between the role of supervisors in the fight against money laundering and the role of FIUs. For reasons of efficiency, the Belgian CTIF objected at first instance to the creation of a European EIF which would receive all declarations of suspicion in a centralised manner from the subject entities of the Member States and which would then forward them to the Member States' FIUs. At operational level, Belgium (CTIF) is not opposed to a European body that would deal with the fight against money laundering, provided that the body is designed as an instrument enabling European FIUs to make cooperation even more effective, for example in transnational money laundering cases involving several Member States and as an organisation that would operate more or less in the same way as Eurojust.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic067x.u4	Minister, thank you for all this information. We're not just talking about money laundering here. We all know that money laundering is the first resource to finance terrorism. It is not just a measure to combat tax evasion. It is also a measure to protect our populations. I therefore welcome your willingness to go further and to exchange maximums at European level because unfortunately, on our own, in our little bubble, we are unable to counter all these mechanisms put in place. I hope that we can go back to the deadlines of the AML 5 directive because you have not been very specific about this. We'll certainly talk about it again.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic067x.u5	Madam President, Minister, this is a very important issue for all the elected representatives of the communes, but also for all our fellow citizens. As you know, the new Code for the Amicable and Forced Collection of Tax and Non-Tax Claims will come into force on January 1. The purpose of the Code is, inter alia, to streamline collection rules into a single text and to harmonize tax procedures. In this context, it should be stressed that the new Code is likely to cause inconvenience to the municipalities in Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels. Indeed, certain provisions of the Income Tax Code will be amended, replaced or repealed. However, the relevant regional legislation refers directly to some of these provisions relating to the communal fiscal power. In other words, as from 1 January 2020, these regional legislations will refer to certain rules which will no longer exist, which could create a legal vacuum for the recovery of municipal taxes. The municipalities will therefore still be able to register taxes, without being able to recover the unpaid taxes, which will not be without problems. This may have a very negative impact on municipal finances, which are already under heavy pressure. Mr Minister, do you have any consultation with the Regions, which will eventually have to amend their legislation on the collection of municipal taxes? Have you agreed on a course of action to ensure that the transition to the rules of the new Code takes place in the least harmful way possible for the municipalities? In this context, do you envisage a postponement of the entry into force of the Code, in order to allow the Regions time to amend their legislation? If this is not the case, know that you may have a few burgers or aldermen on your back from Finance and Budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic067x.u6	Madam President, Mr Bayet, following the opinion of the Council of State of 26 November 2018, the draft was submitted for consultation, in which the Regions and Communities were consulted on 6 December 2018. In addition, during the regular consultation with the federations of cities and municipalities organised by the Chairman of the Management Committee of the SPF Finances, the preliminary draft of the Collection Code was the subject of a discussion on the possible implications for municipal taxation. In fact, regional provisions regulate communal taxation and refer, in some cases, to CIR 92, some of which are replaced by equivalent articles in the law of 13 April 2019 introducing the Collection Code. In this regard, it should be noted that on 18 June 2019, a letter was sent to all federated entities, and in particular to the Regions, informing them of this state of affairs and of the potential consequences of the entry into force of this new Code. This letter invited them, among other things, to screen regional provisions that refer to federal tax codes so that they could make the necessary adjustments. Following these letters, we had contacts with both the Flemish Region and the Walloon Region for additional information and documentation. It is clear that the federal authority will fully cooperate with the Regions so that the necessary adjustments and references to the Collection Code, or possibly to the relevant regional provisions, are made in a correct and fluid manner, to ensure, among other things, the collection of municipal taxes. However, it is not for the federal authority to amend regional legislation. To the extent that the General Administration of Collection and Recovery (AGPR) is in the process of modifying the applications based on the announced date of entry into force of the Collection Code, it is difficult to postpone this date. The municipalities will be able to continue to register their taxes. The provisions in question relate only to recovery, which begins only several months after recruitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic067x.u7	Minister, you're right. But I urge you to follow this file closely. Although some political groups would prefer the Belgian State not to be the parent company, this is still the case. Although it is not the federal authority that has to change regional regulations, it obviously has a role to play, since it is the basic text. This should not be a problem in the municipalities. This would only complicate the already limited financial situation of a number of municipalities. I thank you, Mr Minister, for following this issue carefully, as do the others.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic067x.u8	Madam President, Minister, a study on the assets of Europeans held in offshore financial centres has recently been carried out on behalf of the European Commission. The purpose of this study is to determine the extent of and fraud related to amounts placed abroad. In this respect, the figures for Belgium are quite alarming. The assets not declared by Belgians and held in tax havens amounted to €62 billion in 2016 – or 16% of our GDP. Let us be clear: these amounts are hidden for tax offences. This proportion is the fifth highest on a European scale, placing us just behind states such as Malta or Cyprus. I don't know if we can enjoy it. According to the authors of the study, these hidden assets amount to an average tax loss of €2.6 billion per year between 2004 and 2016. However, our tax legislation contains rules designed to address these kinds of problems. A taxpayer is normally required to report to the tax authority the bank accounts held by the taxpayer abroad or the legal constructions of which the taxpayer is the beneficiary. The amounts revealed by the above-mentioned study therefore seem shocking to me, especially since in theory preventive measures already exist. Nor should we forget that, during the same period, austerity plans were imposed on the population. That is why I would like to know, Minister, whether any studies have been undertaken by your FPS on unreported Belgian assets in offshore financial centres? If so, do they come to the same conclusions as those drawn from the study commissioned by the European Commission? Do you have more precise information on the location of these assets? If so, which tax jurisdictions are most affected? Finally, more importantly, Mr. Minister, do you not think that the problem would lie in the means, both human and financial, granted to the tax administration, the police and the judicial authorities? Legislation already exists, but unfortunately does not bear fruit. What do you intend to do to improve the situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic067x.u9	Madam President, Mr Bayet, before I took a decision on the results of the study on the assets of Europeans held in offshore financial centres on behalf of the European Commission, I ordered my administration to undertake the necessary research in order to properly contextualise the available data. As you know, since 2017, Belgium has committed to exchanging information through the Common Reporting Standard (CRS). Financial institutions are therefore obliged to provide the FPS Finance with financial information on foreigners, as required by law, which will then be transmitted by Belgium to the partner countries. Conversely, it receives information about the financial accounts that our fellow citizens hold in other countries. Nevertheless, I can already point out to you that within the tax administration, the anti-fraud coordination services have a unit to combat tax havens. Its mission is to analyse the payments reported on Form 275F, attached to the corporate tax return, in order to verify whether these payments are made in real and sincere transactions involving persons other than artificial constructions. Since this is not an operational service, the unit works jointly with the Special Inspectorate of Taxes (SII) risk analysis services. I will certainly provide you with the results of our analyses in this area as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic067x.u10	Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, I look forward to the results of the administration. I told you last week, you're our Robin Hood of tax crime, minister. Sixty-two billion euros, while we keep asking our fellow citizens to make more and more efforts every day, while some of us do not and, in addition, plant their money abroad. I find it morally inadmissible and it is more than time to take action to avoid such abuse.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic067x.u11	Minister, on 11 July 2019, the Flemish holiday, France introduced a new tax, the GAFA tax, of around 3% to tax the large internet players who earn more than 750 million euros, such as Google, Amazon, Facebook, Apple, Chinese Alibaba and German Zalando. France is a special case in this respect, some say it is a precursor, others say it is an exception. I hear that there is now a desire to introduce such a tax in Italy too. However, there is no agreement at European level; Ireland, Sweden, Finland and Denmark are even very critical. At European level there must still be unanimity and Europe cannot simply introduce new taxes; that competence lies with the Member States. The result is that the United States is now feeling endorsed and is trying to drown the GAFA debate in a more general story about corporate taxation. I'll be poking my ears. The revenues of such a GAFA tax may be minimal in a small country like Belgium, but if the parameters for corporate tax are also changed, this could have a much greater impact. We also had a discussion on this subject. European level in recent years, within the framework of the proposals concerning the common corporate tax base of CCCB and the common consolidated corporate tax base of CCCTB. It is seen that there are parameters that are more in favour of industrialised countries and not so much those of knowledge and service economies, such as ours. That is why I would have liked to have a state of affairs here. What have you heard recently about the GAFA tax at European level? What is Belgium's position on this matter? How far has this area progressed, both at European level and more internationally, for example in the OECD and the G20? Can we make first rough estimates of the budgetary yield in Belgium? On 21 and 22 November there was also a hearing on a unified approach. Were we represented in that hearing? As far as corporate taxation is concerned, I have heard that the G20 will really be in a decision-making process by spring. What's the status there? Do you have a better view of the parameters on the table? After all, it could have a very negative impact on our economy if the rules were more in favour of the industrialised countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic067x.u12	The debate at European level on a digital service tax was suspended as no agreement could be reached on the Commission's proposal. Another reason for the suspension is that the torch was taken over by the OECD and the G20 under the OECD's inclusive framework, which is now seeking a common solution to challenges posed by the digitalising economy. For the same reason, the option of a digital service tax introduced unilaterally by France is no longer on the agenda and is therefore not being examined. The discussions in the inclusive framework mentioned above are currently under way at the level of technical working groups. Like all other OECD Member States, Belgium participates. The Belgian representation will be present at the public consultation, but it is intended to draw up the views of business, the academia and NGOs. The administration is currently preparing an extensive impact study. On the broader corporate tax dossier in the inclusive framework, the two pillars are further examined and developed side by side. The OECD and G20 calendar aim for an agreement by the end of 2020. In addition, it is not yet possible to draw conclusions on the basis of the current proposals, as the parameters have not yet been sufficiently developed. This also explains why the implementation of the impact study appears to be a very complicated work. Until the framework is finally adopted, some other conclusions are always extremely premature. However, our country must be very vigilant in relation to the ongoing reform. Small, open economies like our country's have to watch what's going on. The reasoning goes in the direction of a valuation based on the location of customers, which in some cases does not make that much difference. If a Belgian company has a permanent location in Sweden today, it will already be taxed on the spot. However, if you work with a distributor, you do not. For countries that export a lot like our country, this could have a strong impact on tax revenues. That is why, like a number of other countries with similar characteristics to our country, we are keeping our eyes and ears open to know what is going on. That is why I also asked the FPS Finance to make a very detailed impact study, which really examines what the impact could be by type of companies and organisations. Refreshing our taxation in the light of the new organisation is a good thing, but we must be careful that the large countries with a large domestic market in particular do not abuse the opportunity to harm small, export-driven economies such as Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic067x.u13	Minister, we are in complete agreement. When the impact study of the administration is available, it would be wonderful if they could also be discussed here. During my previous career as a Member of the European Parliament, I had Deloitte do such a study. It was a qualitative study for all types of companies that were obtained on an international scale by the engine of a CCCB or such a new corporate tax. The study was negative for all types of companies in this country. We must therefore be very vigilant in this respect. The customer parameter is not positive for us. Nor is this the parameter of the number of employees, because we are not dealing with industries, but above all with the knowledge and services economy, which puts us at a disadvantage compared to countries such as France, Germany and Italy. I am particularly pleased to hear that you are vigilant and do not want to open the front door to the GAFA tax, in order to see our corporate tax revenue disappear along the back door. We will certainly support you in your vigilance.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic067x.u14	Minister, in an article in The Financial Times, the German Finance Minister spoke positively about completing the banking union, including the whole debate on a European deposit guarantee. Our savings are insured up to 100,000 euros, so that if something goes wrong with a bank, savers see their money back. There is a lot of discussion going on about whether this should be extended at European level. One group of countries states that risks should be consolidated, while others say that risks should be reduced before new transfers can be made. If countries from the south of Europe want more transfers, we are not really surprised, but when countries from the north of the European Union seem to open the door, then I am a little more on my guard. After that statement by the German Minister, the Dutch Minister for Finance also agreed with the idea of his German colleague. What is the state of play, Minister? Did this file come up recently? It was blocked in the European Parliament last legislative term, just because of that risk reduction and risk sharing. Is there any further consultation at European level on this issue? What is the status of risk reduction? How can we ensure that we do not simply solidify risks before they are eliminated? Can we ensure that our savers and taxpayers do not guarantee countries where the risks are less closely dealt with?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic067x.u15	Mr Loones, initiatives on a European deposit and insurance system, EDIS, are regularly discussed at European level in the high-level working group on EDIS. This group was set up at the beginning of this year with the aim of raising the debate on EDIS to a political level. The high-level working group received a broad mandate from the euro group in inclusive format. The progress made in this subgroup will be discussed at the meetings of the Eurogroup in full format. At the meeting of the Eurogroup in November, the article was discussed in detail with the German Finance Minister, Mr Olaf Scholz. The position of Minister Scholz, who is not currently supported by the entire German Government, opens up an opening to take further steps. It is very special that a personal letter is discussed at the meeting of the Eurogroup, in a personal capacity and therefore not supported by the country. That's original. I have also wondered whether perhaps I should also submit a personal letter for discussion. I welcome this opening, but we must ensure that we continue to make progress within the three pillars of the future banking union, both in the legislative area and in the implementation of this decision. Belgium has always considered that a full EDIS is a third important and necessary pillar of the Banking Union, but that it can only be achieved if sufficient measures have been taken to reduce the outstanding risks. Belgium therefore took a strict position during the negotiations in 2017-2018 on new requirements for the banking sector in terms of capital, liquidity and buffers eligible for bail-in. This package is now fully implemented. At the request of the President of the eurogroup, a report on monitoring risk reduction has been carried out twice a year since November 2017. This monitoring, prepared jointly by the European Commission, the ECB and the Single Resolution Board, the SRB, presents an updated assessment of capital and liquidity ratios, risks and how they evolve within the Banking Union. This should allow political decisions to be taken on further risk-sharing measures. In recent years, many measures have been taken at EU level to reduce the risk, with regulations and directives. It is now essential that these measures are also implemented effectively. Furthermore, I believe that further harmonisation could be sought in the area of bankruptcy legislation for the banking sector and that a systematic quality assessment of banks' assets could be useful. Finally, throughout these debates, I will continue to stress the need to maintain a healthy balance between the interests of the so-called home Member States and the host Member States in order to safeguard financial stability within the EU, the banking union and individual Member States. This remains a central focus of our country. We can see that the home/host debate is being repeated over and over again, a discussion in which some eighteen Member States do not want to go any further. Some countries consider that the current regime is countering further consolidation of the banking sector. We are a country with a lot of foreign banks and we are concerned that a foreign bank would be in trouble here and when it is needed it would say that it is a pity, but that the capital is in the Netherlands or France and cannot be called upon. We defend the interests of Belgian savers and the last thing we would like to do is to treat the interests of Belgian savers differently, depending on the nationality of the bank operating here. We have absolutely no problem with foreign banks operating in our country, but they must ensure that our savers are equally well protected.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic067x.u16	Minister, if we were to negotiate this part of the coalition agreement together, we would be there soon. It's about a very serious and real issue. A number of banks, especially Italian banks, have gone overboard in Spain in recent years and are associated with high risks. With regard to the discussion on solidarisation and risk reduction, I am very pleased that you repeat that risk reduction must first take place before we can take any further steps. It is also good that there will be a regular state of play in the working group at European level. I am glad that you are referring specifically to bankruptcy legislation, because that is a yard where much can still be done. Many Member States underestimate this legislation, which can, however, ensure that the money is recovered in the proper cadence of those who would have to pay. I'm worried about the consolidation. On the one hand, we have the too-big-to-fail discussion. On the other hand, some countries or some politicians seem to be guided by special consolidations. Without claiming that President Macron himself is behind this, it is striking that some French banks are in trouble with German or Italian banks. This may give the impression that speculation is being made that if anything goes wrong, the rest will pay, which is very cynical from a political point of view, especially when we can be victims of it. At that time, you may be allowed to send a letter in your personal name. If we write that letter together, we'll be fine.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic067x.u17	Mr Minister, a few days ago, a press article mentioned the difficulty or even the impossibility of many Belgians paying their taxes. For thousands of citizens, the end of the month is difficult and is still complicated by the arrival of the warning-extract of role. From January to September 2019, the FPS Finances granted no less than 158,394 payment plans, with an average duration of 5.45 months. These payment plans are granted to citizens and businesses who have a debt to the FPS Finances and which they cannot settle immediately. There are two possible situations: the repayment period is less than four months after the due date and a maturity longer than that period. In the first case, the procedure has no formality. This is the second scenario that poses a problem. If the taxpayer cannot pay his debt within four months, the payment plan will not be automatically accepted. In addition, in cases where debts cannot be repaid within 12 months of the due date, payment problems are then considered structural. The collective settlement of debts then comes into play. The last report of the Federal Ombudsman's inquiry into tax debts, which was also debated in the Finance Committee, states that 97% of the payment plans granted by the FPS Finances do not exceed the 12-month deadline. But behind these prima facie positive figures, there is a large proportion of citizens who fail to pay their debts within the deadlines imposed and who are then faced with recovery measures. Minister, how many Belgians have been unable to follow the procedure imposed by the FPS Finances? Is the granting of a payment plan still an appropriate procedure? The report of the Federal Ombudsman points out that the calculation of capacity to pay does not take into account the budget actually available to the citizen and proposes solutions to the problem. Has your cabinet started a reflection on the recommendations made by the Federal Ombudsman's report?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic067x.u18	Dear colleague, the statistics relate to the period from the beginning of this year until 30 September last, for personal tax and property discount. For these types of tax, the total number of payment plans granted to natural persons is 157,718. With regard to these plans, 11,835 were not complied with, despite a final reminder; 5,356 had a duration of less than or equal to four months and 6,479 had a duration of more than four months. The granting of a payment plan is not always a procedure adapted to certain financial situations, even though my administration is also examining the file in cases where payment of the debt cannot take place within 12 months of its appearance. Thus, in the presence of a large private debt, the exceptional possibility of a longer-term payment of taxes, possibly accompanied by an exemption from interest on arrears – or even part of the principal – will only create a lasting situation if private creditors also follow the same approach. As regards the determination of the calculation of capacity to pay, and following the demonstration organised by the Social Integration PPS, my administration has found that our packages are similar to those mentioned in the calculation method which incorporates the expenses necessary to cover the basic needs, that is to say the reference budget. In collaboration with the Social Integration PPS, we are studying how to use this tool in the context of the administrative settlement of debts, i.e. plans greater than 12 months. Nevertheless, a study on the adaptation of the reference budget tool involves obtaining funding which, in the current situation of a government in day-to-day affairs, poses a problem. As a result, the results of the study will not be received until the end of this year, instead of what was originally planned. The objective is also to work with CPAS and budget guidance services. If you want the numbers in paper version, we can give them to you. Maybe it's easier.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic067x.u19	Minister, thank you for your answers. As you said, some procedures are not appropriate. It can be seen that administrative procedures do not take into account the actual financial capacity of taxpayers. Indeed, their reimbursement capacity is calculated on a flat-rate basis, but not really on their actual budget. Some categories of workers, such as temporary workers or part-time workers, do not receive enough deductions. They are already in a situation of workers with "difficulties", which leads to over-indebtedness since, in the end, they find it difficult to pay their taxes. Moreover, large tax fraudsters sometimes enjoy impunity. It must be noted that, today, there are workers among our taxpayers who find it difficult to pay their taxes. We find them in a very precarious situation. I will certainly return to you concerning the study that you have carried out, and which you tell me you will have the results by the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic067x.u20	Minister, a recent survey conducted at the request of the CNCD-11.11.11 in partnership with RTBF and La Libre Belgique shows that Belgians are waiting for more tax justice in our country. Indeed, only 14% of Belgians believe that our tax system is fair. Three out of four Belgians believe that a wealth tax can be introduced and a large majority believe that SMEs and self-employed people are not favoured by the Belgian tax system. In summary, 72% of Belgians are in favour of lowering the tax on labour income, with a focus on low wages, while taxing the highest income, capital and income from it. Minister, we have had debates about the tax shift and its real impact on the purchasing power of citizens. Citizens' and trade union movements show that there has been no satisfaction of the population. In addition, you have not reviewed our tax legislation to make it fairer. Moreover, and the finding is clear, the evolution of labour income is much lower than the return on capital income. Now in the day-to-day business, I suspect that you will no longer act to restore fairness and balance in the Belgian tax system. However, does this survey make you think about the opportunity to rethink taxation so that it is fairer with regard to the different types of income and the actual contributory capacity of taxpayers? When, for example, is fair taxation of equity gains, since our country is one of the few OECD countries not to propose this mechanism?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic067x.u21	I've been Minister of Finance since the government's day-to-day business. As you know, a day-to-day government is solely responsible for dispatching day-to-day business and, as a result, it is not up to me as the minister of such a government to decide whether such tax reforms are appropriate. I hope that some will be able to speak on this in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic067x.u22	I'm not throwing the stone at you. I know you have your hands tied and I would not want to prejudge what you could have done if you had had those functions in a full-fledged government. My intention was to recall the need to rebalance our tax system, knowing that 70% of its revenues still come from labour and consumer income. We believe that this is too much and that workers and SMEs should see their burdens ease. This burden should be offset by other types of revenue. We'll talk about it in the next few months.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic067x.u23	Minister, I propose that you turn my question No. 55001684C into a written question and forward the answer to me.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic067x.u24	Madam President, Minister, a few years ago my group was at the initiative of texts aimed at regulating speculation on foodstuffs. It will be recalled that some parties were opposed to the idea of moving forward on this topic. Yet speculation on food has dramatic consequences for the food security of the countries of the South. It also has negative consequences for our local producers. We believe that it is unacceptable for banking institutions to offer products linked to rising food prices, even though the dramatic consequences of this form of speculation are known. We finally managed to pass a resolution calling for the establishment of a moratorium organised by the FSMA on a voluntary basis by financial institutions. The idea was to entrust the FSMA with the task of enforcing the ban on banks participating in it to offer products, both banking and insurance, in connection with commodity speculation. Following hearings, including the FSMA, we understood that, in the absence of strong and clear legislation at European level, this moratorium offered some scope for action. Secondly, the proposal asked the Minister of Finance to work on the European scene to ban the supply and marketing of financial products that speculate on this type of product. Minister, it seems that this moratorium has never been set up. Could you explain why? However, this was a simple and non-binding procedure for banks. The reasoning was that, if banks do not participate, then one can assume of their unwillingness to act, at least. The idea was to report to Parliament. Yet nothing has been done, which one can regret. Could you also give us an overview of the European discussions aimed at banning the marketing of such products in Europe? Have other European countries taken initiatives at European or national level to regulate speculation on foodstuffs?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic067x.u25	Madam President, Mr Ben Achour, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the motion for a resolution to which you are referring was withdrawn in plenary session, following a disagreement between the parties of the majority of the time on an amendment. It was therefore not voted on. Furthermore, the draft resolution did not suggest the establishment of a moratorium, but aimed at regulatory action. Notwithstanding the withdrawal of this draft resolution, significant progress has been made since then both at Belgian and European level. In January 2018, Directive 2014/65/EU on markets in financial instruments (MiFID II) established, at European level, a regime of position limits and new reporting requirements for financial derivatives on raw materials. The methodology for setting positions limits is established at European level by Delegated Regulation (EU) 2017/5091. The European scheme was implemented in Belgium by a communication published on 1 December 2017 on the FSMA website. The establishment of the limits of positions corresponds to the main request made in the draft resolution to which you refer. I would also point out that the FSMA had already taken other initiatives without waiting for the outcome of the European work. On 20 June 2011, FSMA called on the financial sector not to market structured products that are considered to be particularly complex to retail investors. Structured products with underlying raw materials such as food are considered particularly complex. FSMA also adopted a regulation in April 2014 concerning the prohibition of the marketing of certain financial products. This regulation prohibits, among other things, the marketing in Belgium to retail customers of certain financial products which invest either in alternative funds whose return depends on non-conventional assets or directly in non-conventional assets. Raw materials are considered non-conventional assets. The marketing of food-related financial products is therefore already widely prohibited in our country. It also seems important to me to stress that most banks are pursuing a policy of excluding speculation on food commodities and ensuring that financial instruments derived from these materials are marketed only in order to cover risks linked to a business activity and not for speculation. Belgian companies must be able to continue to cover their risks, which in no way constitutes a reprehensible speculative activity.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic067x.u26	Minister, thank you for your answers. I hear that there is little speculation on food in our country. At the global level, it has resumed after a few decades of stabilization, with dramatic consequences in terms of food security in the countries of the South. I would like to address the Chair of the Commission by saying that in order to extend the debate to other types of goods, it would be interesting to receive the FSMA to take stock of this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic067x.u27	Mr Ravyts is not here. His question No. 55001754C will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hees's 55001863 was also converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic067x.u28	Minister, in the meantime, two weeks ago, a report on BNP Paribas Fortis appeared in the press. This institution would refuse to open an account to a part of the population under the money laundering legislation. Anyone who does not have a first name or date of birth on the identity card, however delivered by Belgian authorities, is systematically refused. This measure mainly affects people of Moroccan or Congolese origin. For example, there are people who were born in Congo in the 1970s and 1980s and were given a European first name. That first name was banned under Mobutu during the 'zairization'. The persons concerned were given an 'x' by their first name, when they later applied for a Belgian identity card. According to Unia, therefore, there could be a risk of indirect discrimination. BNP Paribas Fortis is the only major bank in Belgium that applies such strict rules. The Belgian State is, by almost 8%, the main shareholder of the large bank and thus has an important vote in the shareholders' meeting and a representative on the board of directors of the bank. I have the following questions for you. What exact requirement does anti-money laundering legislation impose on banks with regard to the identification of potential customers? BNP Paribas Fortis is the only major bank in Belgium that uses very strict practices, such as systematically no banking relationship without a first name or date of birth on the identity card or other official documents. Do you believe that anti-money laundering legislation requires strict rules? If so, are the practices of other banks contrary to that law? If not, would you urge BNP Paribas Fortis to change those rules? Why is that the case or not? How do you intend to ensure that population groups affected by the measure are able to have equal access to a bank account? Finally, what is the attitude of Belfius, a bank that is also in government hands, with regard to the matter in question? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic067x.u29	Ms Soors, on the legal framework, in particular the law of 18 September 2017 on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing and on the restriction of the use of cash, the subject entities should take different clearly defined measures of vigilance towards their clients in the law. Those measures are necessary in order to be able to report to the Financial Information and Processing Cell or CFI any transactions which they suspect may be related to money laundering or terrorist financing. In summary, these statutory vigilance obligations constitute a set of three elements, which are defined in Article 19 (1) of the Act and consist of the following. The first element is the obligation to identify the clients, their potential agents and their potential beneficial owners. The second element is to assess the characteristics of each client as well as the purpose and intended nature of each business relationship or occasional operation and to obtain any additional information for that purpose. The third element is to demonstrate continuous vigilance with regard to business relations and transactions in order to ensure that the operations carried out are consistent with the knowledge of the subject entity, in that case the bank, of the client concerned. In particular, with regard to the identification obligation, the legislator clarified in Article 26 (2) of the Act that where the identification relates to a natural person, the subject entity should identify the name, first name, date of birth and place of birth and, as far as possible, the address of that person. In addition, Article 33 of the Act provides that where the subject entities cannot fulfil their obligation to identify and verify the identity of the client, its agents or beneficial owners, they may not enter into a business relationship with or conduct transactions for that client and that they must terminate the business relationship already entered into, in particular if the identification cannot be updated when required. However, Article 19 (2) of the Act provides that vigilance obligations, including identification obligations, must be implemented in a differentiated manner on the basis of the conclusions of the individual assessment of the risks associated with money laundering or terrorist financing, and taking into account the particular characteristics of the client and the business relationship or transactions concerned. They may, where appropriate, apply simplified or increased vigilance measures, provided that the effective information collected remains sufficient to distinguish the person concerned from any other person with sufficient certainty. Any specific situation that could have operational implications for compliance with the subject entities, their obligations to combat money laundering and terrorist financing should be subject to a thorough assessment. Where appropriate, relevant subject entities may contact their supervisor, directly or through an organisation representing their sector, in order to seek a solution that meets the applicable legal requirements. Those who have a conflict with a bank can, of course, always contact the ombud service of the banking sector, via a regular letter or by e-mail. He or she must prove that attempts to reach an agreement with the bank have failed. If the customer considers that the bank has broken a law, he can lodge a formal complaint with the Federal Public Service Economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic067x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I have heard you explain the current legislation very extensively. It is, of course, very useful that legislation exists. I can also hear you nuance. There is a possibility of looking at, in a differentiated way, the practices that make it possible to give everyone access to the services provided by that bank. That's where today the shoe is pinching. There is a form of conflicting policy. That opening is in the legislation. Only BNP Paripas Fortis, whether or not out of a casual attitude, applies the legislation to the letter and refuses to make that opening according to the differentiated manner. I regret that I have not heard you say anything about our country's intention as a shareholder, to send a message to BNP Paribas Fortis, if only to make it clear at all times that all citizens are entitled to the same service. If the door were already open to the risk of indirect discrimination, we should at least give the signal from the government that that door must be struck very hard. I hope that, as a shareholder, such a signal can be sent to the bank. I particularly hope that solutions will be found for people who find it difficult to get their administration in order.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic067x.u31	Madam President, Minister, as you know, the PS is a united, united group that shares the same vision. My question is therefore related to that of my colleague Malik Ben Achour. In recent years, the European Anti-Fraud Office (OLAF) has focused on a particular type of EU revenue fraud, i.e. the undervaluation of textiles and footwear returning to the European Union. As you can see, I have a Flemish friend who works in the export industry in Antwerp, and he tells me that this is a huge problem. This fraud takes place in the following manner. The goods arrive from China in containers on ships and enter in the majority of cases in Europe via the port of Hamburg, sometimes from Antwerp. There, containers are considered to be in transit, and are then moved by truck to be released elsewhere in the Union, where controls are deemed to be more lax in the eyes of fraudsters. In this way, fraudsters can report imported goods at a lesser value. This allows them to avoid the payment of customs duties but also VAT. As is well known, the United Kingdom was the country most affected by this type of revenue fraud in the Union. Once the Brexit has been implemented, Belgium is likely to fall into the top 3 countries where undervaluation fraud is the highest, given that our country is an important gateway to international trade, particularly through its ports. Mr Minister, has Belgium prepared itself for a possible shift in cases of fraud from the United Kingdom to our country? What measures are being taken in this context, even though we know that you are in the business of day-to-day business? Since this phenomenon is mainly a European problem, what cooperation does the General Administration of Customs and Excise have with the customs of the various Member States? Do you have an assessment of the amount eluded in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic067x.u32	Madam Chair, Mr. Bayet, within the General Administration of Customs and Excise, the risk analysis for under-evaluation is a dynamic concept and adapts to changing legislative, logistical and trade policy circumstances. The changes and risks of increased fraud that Brexit could eventually generate are taken into account in monitoring the selection criteria. Regulation (EC) No 515/97 lays down the conditions for mutual assistance between the customs authorities of the Member States and the cooperation between them and the Commission in order to ensure the proper application of the customs rules. In addition, the European Commission brings together expert groups in which customs specialists from all Member States work together on issues of principle but also on recent changes in order to be able to respond adequately and to adopt a uniform approach within the European Union. An estimate of the fees evaded by the undervaluation is not possible because it is an estimation work on a case-by-case basis. This is due to the fact that the price paid for a good may differ, regardless of whether it is the same type of goods or not.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic067x.u33	Minister, thank you for your answer. I think we can do a little more, in the interests of our companies, and in order to avoid that there is so much fraud in our ports.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic067x.u34	Madam President, Minister, in recent years the concepts of "sustainable finance" and "socially responsible investment" (SRI) have developed particularly. In this context, sustainability targets various realities, which can be understood in environmental, social or good governance terms. According to the Financité network, SRIs would have jumped by almost 25% compared to 2018, reaching €42.85 billion in 2019. In view of the growing attractiveness of this type of investment, the European Commission published an action plan for the development of sustainable finance on 8 March 2018. The main objectives of the plan are to direct capital flows towards sustainable investment and to promote transparency and a longer-term vision in economic and financial activities. This led to three proposals for regulations, known as Taxonomy, Disclosure and Benchmarks, which are still under discussion at the level of the Council of the European Union. The Taxonomy proposal aims to improve the transparency of funds, specifying which part of them has actually been invested in activities that have a positive impact on the environment. The purpose of the Disclosure proposal is to introduce uniform reporting obligations for financial market players, both from an environmental and social point of view and from a good governance point of view. The Benchmarks proposal aims to introduce new and sustainable indices and aims to increase the reporting obligations of benchmark administrators. Benchmarks and Disclosure proposals are expected to be adopted by the end of the year. As for the discussion of the Taxonomy proposal in the Council, it would be less successful, which would delay its adoption. What is the status of discussions in the Council? Will it allow for the adoption of the Disclosure and Benchmarks proposals by 2020? Why is the legislative process of the Taxonomy Regulation less advanced than the other two? In the event that these regulations are not adopted in the short or medium term, could Belgium not make progress alone on sustainable finance, which has nevertheless seen a significant increase in Belgium in recent years?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic067x.u35	Dear colleague, an agreement was reached with the European Parliament on the two proposals Disclosure and Benchmarks in 2019. Discussion of the Taxonomy proposal is more complex. It directly affects real economic sectors and thus the business model of companies and financial market players. It also calls on the Member States to take taxonomy as a reference, which implies additional measures to be taken to accompany the energy transition. It de facto affects the European budget and the financing made available to accompany the changes, as well as those of the European Investment Bank, which has just adapted its new energy and climate financing strategies. The trialogues dealt in particular with the scope to be extended or not to all actors, from financial markets to enterprises, but also with the exclusion of certain areas such as coal, the establishment of qualitative and quantitative thresholds determining the degree of sustainability, as well as on decision-making governance, including the role of the European supervisory authorities. During the trilogues, on 3 and 5 December 2019, the Finnish Presidency and the European Parliament reached an ad referendum agreement on the key issues of the Taxonomy Regulation. On this basis, work will be finalized in the coming weeks. Belgium has been very active since the launch of the Action Plan on Sustainable Finance, while focusing on an integrated European approach. Our country has supported more ambitious developments, including the extension of the scope to all financial actors, to take account of the energy transition and coherence with the energy-climate plans of the Member States. In addition, we have accompanied the entire European exercise by setting up a Sustainable Finance Task Force in Belgium, active since May 2018 with all the federal actors and federated entities concerned. This has helped to maintain a consistent position throughout the negotiations. The discussion on taxonomy is fundamental because, for the first time, we can clearly determine what is sustainable or not. If a European agreement is reached on this matter, we will be seen as a reference at the global level, as was the case with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). Many complain, but it has become the reference at the global level. It is a role Europe must also play at the global level in taxonomy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic067x.u36	Minister, thank you for this very comprehensive answer. It is indeed necessary to be able to define more clearly what is meant by sustainable finance, both for Belgian, European and global citizens and for operators who use these terms behind which we do not always know what is really hidden. We'll get back to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic067x.u37	Question No 55002012C by Mrs Frieda Gijbels and question No 55002024C by Mr Steven Mathei are transformed into written questions. Question No 55002017C by Mr Vanden Burre falls.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic067x.u38	Minister, Minister, Article 194ter, paragraph 1, paragraph 5, of the Income Tax Code provides that: "Expenditure made within six months before the signature of the framework agreement for the eligible work, which is related to the production and exploitation of that eligible work and which meets all the other conditions referred to in this Article, shall be accepted as eligible expenditure provided that the Community concerned has previously recognised the work in accordance with the first indent of paragraph 7, paragraph 1, paragraph 3, and that the eligible production company may justify the reasons which made it necessary for such expenditure to be made prior to the said signature and not subsequently." In addition, in accordance with Article 194b(1), first paragraph, fourth indent, second indent, expenditure must be incurred within 18 months of the date of signature of the Framework Convention. The Frequently Asked Questions on the Tax Shelter Scheme for Audiovisual Production, published on 13 September 2017, states that: "the production company may, however, submit other exceptional circumstances in order to take into account, as eligible expenditure, expenditure incurred within 6 months of the signature of the Framework Convention". In response to a parliamentary question No 29233, on 30 April 2019, you indicated that the reduction of corporate tax, the introduction of the new system of advance payments and the introduction of the tax shelter for the performing arts were recognized as exceptional circumstances and, in that sense, are considered to be a necessary justification within the meaning of Article 194ter, so that the expenditure incurred up to six months before the signing of the framework agreement must be accepted until the end of 2019 as eligible expenditure for the production of the work concerned. This derogation shall end on 31 December 2019. Nevertheless, it is still difficult for Belgian intermediaries and production companies to find the financial means necessary to carry out their works. In addition, a new legislation to address the above-mentioned exceptional circumstances has not yet been adopted. On the basis of these findings and pending a legislative text on the subject, do you confirm these exceptional circumstances until the end of 2020 in order to address the many concerns of the sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic067x.u39	Thank you for your question. I repeat what I mentioned in the answer to Oral Question No 29233 of 30 April 2019: it is necessary to introduce a legal framework in order to establish the same treatment for all sectors as regards the eligibility of expenditure incurred before the signature of the Framework Convention. To this end, a legislative amendment has been prepared as part of a bill containing various provisions. Unfortunately, this project has proved impossible to deal with in the current committee. It is therefore up to the next Finance Minister to legally anchor this adaptation in order to ensure legal certainty for all actors, without the need to give retroactive entry into force of such ad hoc measures. It is very clear that there is still a need for the audiovisual sector to reorganize itself, while the extension of the tax shelter system to the performing arts has disrupted the search for investors for audiovisual works. In view of the situation described above, I am extending my exceptional agreement on the eligibility of expenditure incurred within the six-month period prior to the signing of the Framework Convention which is justified for framework agreements signed in the first six months of 2020, i.e. expenditure incurred before 30 June 2020 for framework agreements signed by 30 June 2020 at the latest.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-10-55-commissie-ic067x.u40	Thank you, Minister. This means that you set deadlines for a government to succeed: this is good news! The sector will certainly be happy. I share your view that there is a need for a legislative amendment, which should be a little broader. There are different subjects, on relative and absolute ceilings. The sector needs this attention. We have made a good tool, which, however, ends up drying up somewhat because there are too many possibilities. Thank you.
