ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1067x.u1	Minister, I submitted my question a long time ago. Meanwhile, a lot has happened, but the essence of the problem remains, I suppose. In a communication, the syndicates point out your intention to stop considering both care credit and leave for reduced benefits as tangible services in education. In other words, those career periods would no longer be fully eligible, as they should, for the calculation of the pension amount and the pension date. This goes against the federal government agreement, which clearly states that motivated time-credit and career breaks and thematic leave are fully and last-earned wages. The full passage is in my written record; I will not read it in full here. Do you really think that leave for reduced benefits should no longer be regarded as a viable service? That would have an impact on quite a lot of people. How do you deal with people who soon retire and in the end take leave for reduced benefits? Are these services no longer eligible and what about the retroactive effect? Does that not affect acquired rights? Is it true that, in some circumstances, the healthcare credit would no longer be regarded as a viable service, for example if a career break had already been taken in the past? In what circumstances would that apply or not? What about the communication and dialogue with the Flemish and Walloon Ministers of Education?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1067x.u2	Mr De Vriendt, in order for leave to be taken into account for the pension to be borne by the Treasury, it should be added to the legally established list of detachable leave since the entry into force of Article 16 of the Act of 6 January 2014, by means of a royal decree submitted by the Council of Ministers. It is therefore up to the Council of Ministers to decide on the acceptability of the leave. The healthcare credit was added to the quoted list by the Royal Decree of 2 December 2018 which aims at both the care credit for the Flemish staff and the care credit in the education and student guidance centres. As regards the acceptability of the periods of care credit, since the health credit replaces the federal career break under the sixth state reform, the numerator is not, of course, set to zero again. The periods of care credit are treated in the same way as the periods of career break. If this were not the case, there would be a difference in treatment between the officials according to the level of policy to which they belong. In addition, I received an application to add the long-term leave for reduced benefits for medical reasons to the list of leave for the Flemish teaching staff. The royal decree was signed by the King and will soon be published. Finally, regarding the leave for reduced benefits of Flemish education, the Federal Pension Service's analysis indicates that the budgetary impact is higher than that of the federal system. Therefore, in consultation with Minister Crevits' cabinet, I am currently working on a parliamentary initiative to resolve this situation. It will be presented to you shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1067x.u3	Mr. Secretary, what's soon? When will this parliamentary initiative take place?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1067x.u4	I am currently working in consultation with Minister Crevits, but I am not going to decide for Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1067x.u5	Question No 28135 by Mrs Dedry is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1067x.u6	Mr President, Mr. Minister of Pensions, my question had been addressed to the Minister of Finance, but it is you who have the responsibility for the FSMA (the Autorité des services et marchés financiers) in the section "Control of registered professional retirement institutions". OGEO FUND, which bears the number FSMA 50570, is a pension financing organisation whose FSMA status is that of a registered professional retirement institution. Several journalistic surveys by the weekly Le Vif/L'Express and the Apache website have highlighted serious problems in the management of an Antwerp branch of OGEO FUND, namely the Land lnvest Group, which is 50% owned by the pension fund. It highlights various abuses, including totally excessive mouth fees, significant expenses unrelated to the social object, the very high lump sum remuneration of an architect consultant, the non-reimbursement of debts by Land lnvest Group and the need for OGEO to refinance the aforementioned group. These facts are particularly worrying in terms of indices of mismanagement. Therefore, there is a real concern about the future ability of OGEO FUND to meet its commitments to contributing workers. In doing so, it seems to me that a reaction from the supervisory body, the FSMA, is justified. Minister, what is the FSMA's monitoring of the day-to-day management of registered and registered professional retirement institutions? Is the FSMA in a position to respond to findings of mismanagement? In what way? How many times in the last five years has the FSMA intervened to report mismanagement of a pension fund? More specifically, with regard to OGEO FUND and its subsidiary Land lnvest, have specific checks been carried out, particularly on the basis of information disseminated by the press? If so, what conclusions have they reached? If not, what explains the passivity of the FSMA to such serious and disturbing facts?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1067x.u7	Mr President, honourable Member, I do have jurisdiction over the FSMA, not guardianship. There is no guardianship over this independent body. He's so independent that I don't interfere in the controls that the FSMA is diligent. OGEO FUND, as an institution for occupational retirement (IRP), is subject - like 194 other IRPs - to the provisions of the Act of 27 October 2006 on the supervision of occupational retirement institutions. The rules set out in the Act deal in particular with the following areas. Assets must comply with certain investment rules, mainly based on the prudence principle, such as investment in the interests of affiliates and beneficiaries, so as to ensure the security, quality, liquidity and profitability of assets, but also respect for diversity. The IRP must have a sound management of the assets that will be used for the appropriate coverage of the IRP's commitments. In this regard, the IRP defines its investment policy in a "Statement of Investment Principles" document. The FSMA is responsible, among other things, for verifying that the SIP complies with the legal provisions, but also that it is applied correctly. Compliance with these rules is assessed in terms of the entire portfolio, without the FSMA being able, subject to compliance with the above rules, to judge the appropriateness of the concrete investments chosen by the IRP. With respect to liabilities, the IRP will need to develop a funding plan to conservatively estimate the technical provisions that reflect the IRP's commitments to affiliates and beneficiaries. The FSMA requires that the relevant IRP take corrective measures whenever it finds that the solvency margin is insufficient, that technical provisions are not prudent, that there are insufficient representative values in relation to the technical provisions or the solvency margin, or that the investment rules for those assets are not satisfied. Finally, as far as governance is concerned, every IRP must have a governance system in line with the specifics of its activities. This system must include an adequate organizational structure, an effective internal control system, measures to ensure business continuity, a risk management system and the drafting of different policies. The governance obligations were reinforced by the Law of 11 January 2019 on the transposition of Directive (EU) 2016/2341 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2016 on the activities and supervision of occupational pension institutions (IRP II Directive) and amending the Law of 27 October 2016 on the supervision of occupational pension institutions. The Act requires FSMA to monitor these various areas through financial and other information that the IRP is required to provide on a regular basis, but also through on-the-spot monitoring missions. FSMA's control of IRPs is based on two approaches: the first, in the context of prior authorisations to be given (e.g. when a new IRP is approved); the second, based on risk indicators. In this second case, the FSMA takes into account not only the signals transmitted by the approved commissioners and the key function managers, but also the detailed reporting and processed in a developed risk model. It may also be based on information held by third parties, such as those appearing in the press. In 2017, FSMA notified 235 reminders to IRPs and took four remedial measures on the basis of prudential legislation. In addition, 14 IRPs were affected by remedial measures aimed at remedying a situation of financial insufficiency. In 2018, the FSMA notified 86 reminders to order on the same basis. In addition, 21 IRPs were affected by measures to remedy a situation of financial insufficiency. Given the specificities and importance of the OGEO FUND PRI, it is subject to regular checks in different areas. As you refer to press articles, I note that she mentioned in her right of reply published by Le Vif/L'Express of 6 December 2018 that she had divested from Land Invest in May 2018. This divestment resulted in an annualized overall return of more than 10%, an excellent return. According to the same weekly, OGEO FUND thus realised "an added value of 400 % on its participation in the capital and was repaid from the integral of loans granted in principal and interest: i.e. 9 % per year".
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1067x.u8	Mr. Minister, it is certain that your competence in this area is limited, but you have presented the legal framework and provided statistical information on FSMA's actions in relation to pension organizations. It can only be encouraged to remain vigilant about the risks to workers' capital. With regard to the specific questions concerning OGEO FUND and Land Invest, I note that you do not provide any specific information about an intervention by FSMA. I hope, however, that there has been one, given the seriousness of the facts revealed. Like you, I have taken note of OGEO FUND's right of reply regarding its continued presence in Land Invest. I do hope that this worker insurance body is no longer exposed to this risk, and that the governance within Land Invest will have improved in the meantime, in particular as a result of the investigative journalistic work that has been carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-27-54-commissie-ic1067x.u9	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Hedebouw's 29049 and Mr Van Hees' 29051 have been converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Becq's 29132 is hereby repealed. The same applies to Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Daerden's 29236 and 29237 were converted into written questions.
