ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic015x.u1	Madam President, Minister, if the law of principles provided for the right of detainees to telephone daily at their own expense, the previous circumstances were such that they only obtained ten minutes of daily telephone calls at Ittre Prison. Although I am not aware of the situation in the other Kingdom prisons, I know that, since this year, telephones have been installed in the cells, so prisoners can theoretically use the telephone 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. At the same time, telephone rates were divided by two, which is also good news for inmates. While we can welcome these developments, the prison supervisory committee draws our attention to the excessive nature of these tariffs, given the current cost of telephone calls. We also learn that the market was won in 2002 by a company that installs communication systems in penitentiaries and psychiatric institutions, at home as in the rest of Europe, and which is not listed in the IBPT, the telephone regulator in Belgium. We therefore join the Supervisory Committee in ensuring that there is full clarity on certain issues. Minister, who benefits from the increased costs of communications? Why is the price not linked to the reduction in communication and roaming costs in Belgium? How can we explain that this company is not listed in the IBPT? When has the procurement been last reviewed and when will it have to be reviewed in the coming years?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic015x.u2	Mrs. Zanchetta, inmates pay a price per second, including the telephone line – because they don't pay a subscription – the management system, the cost of communication, etc. Since 16 April 2019, communication costs have been down to 0,11 euro per minute. This is a lump sum prize. Prison costs are still a little higher than outside the prison. The main reason is that the phone for inmates is secure. This high security and management programs result in a cost that is included in the cost of communication. In the specifications, it was envisaged that the winning firm would have to prove its collaboration with a telephone operator recognized by the IBPT. That's the case here. The new market started last April for a period of six years.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic015x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic015x.u4	Madam President, Minister, while general care in prison appears to be relatively well managed, some more specific care and mental health in particular appear to be much less monitored. However, there are many psychiatric cases in prison, and prisoners appear to suffer from severe, if not severe, pathologies. The hours of the presence of psychiatrists provided for by the law are too limited to really allow for the handling of the cases encountered. As far as psychologists are concerned, the situation is even more problematic since, in some prisons, it takes months to get even a first appointment. The continuity of care started is not ensured by the same teams, which makes care all the more complex and even less effective. It is also our responsibility to ensure that detainees are frequently released from prison without any treatment, without a prescription to ensure the continuity of their care. Minister, what about the transfer of responsibility for health care within prisons to your public health counterpart? How do you intend to improve the psychiatric and psychological follow-up of prisoners? What about the medical follow-up of the detainees at the time of their release from prison? What about the treatment of illegal aliens for whom the Constitutional Court has re-enhanced access to the modalities for the execution of the sentence?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic015x.u5	Madam Chair, Ms. Zanchetta, several working groups have been set up in the Interdepartmental Public Health Conference chaired by my colleague, Ms. De Block. They drafted the final texts. The key points are: the transfer of justice to the public health of medical care, cooperation with external hospitals to ensure the quality of the care provided, integration of prisoners into the regulations of the INAMI, as was the case for inmates placed outside the institution. Vision texts are ready for legal transposition by the next government. Personally, I continue to believe that this integration is an absolute necessity for a human detention policy. In the case of psychiatric care, an improvement in fees is envisaged. In consultation with universities, an initial approach with the prison world is being planned for trainees in training. Once inmates leave the institution, they are again subject to the INAMI regulations, thus ensuring medical continuity. When necessary, on leaving the establishment, the medication is communicated in order to cover a short period of time. However, it is necessary for the detainee concerned to choose a doctor himself. In this way, DG PPE knows who to transfer the medical file to. An inmate who is not affiliated with a mutual upon leaving the institution may apply to the CPAS to benefit from the emergency medical assistance scheme, which also guarantees medical follow-up for this category of persons. Detainees without right of residence who leave the institution by means of arrangements which are not taken over by the Office of Foreigners with a view to returning to their country of origin and which are also not subject to the INAMI regulations will still be taken over by DG EPI when they are granted leave of absence, prison leave, electronic supervision or limited detention. When they are granted parole, they can rely on the emergency medical assistance scheme via the CPAS of the place of stay.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic015x.u6	Minister, thank you for the clarification. We will of course remain attentive to this situation, in particular the presence of interns for the psychiatric follow-up of prisoners.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic015x.u7	Mr Bayet is absent, so I give you the floor, Mr Aouasti.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic015x.u8	Thank you, Madam President, Minister, some time ago, we learned that there would be no criminal proceedings against the HSBC subsidiary, which had accepted and thus benefited from a criminal transaction. As you know, the bank has been prosecuted since 2014 for money laundering, tax fraud and the illegal exercise of the function of financial intermediary. The amount of the transaction would amount to almost EUR 295 million. Of course, I am not going to ask you to comment on a court decision, but I would like to take this opportunity to take a little bit of an update with you on the system of the criminal transaction. What about the Panama Papers Commission's recommendation: "It is appropriate to provide for effective judicial review in order to comply with the provisions of Constitutional Court Decision No. 83/2016, in particular – three elements – by fixing, on the basis of the fraud involved, reference amounts of fines which come in excess of the amount of taxes evaded for the determination of the total amount of the transaction; by organising at least indirect publicity of the transactions concluded; by prohibiting a possibility of a transaction after the investigation has been closed"? Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic015x.u9	Madam President, Mr Aouasti, the Act of 18 March 2018 amending various provisions of criminal law, criminal procedure and judicial law has made amendments to Article 216bis of the Code of Criminal Investigation. This legislative amendment followed the Constitutional Court's ruling No. 83/2016 of 2 June 2016 and introduced a judicial review of criminal transactions in cases in which the public action has already been brought. This judicial review also provides for checks on proportionality. It is under the judge's sovereign discretion to refuse the approval of the criminal transaction if he considers it not to be proportionate. For the time being, no reference amount for fraud has yet been set for extended criminal transactions, but each transaction proposal is previously monitored within the hierarchy of the Public Prosecutor's Office with a view to a consistent application. The legislator did not consider it appropriate to reduce further the formal scope of application than the second "pot-pourri" law of 2 May 2016, i.e. no transaction after a decision on the merits in the first instance. Finally, the legislator did not provide for any mandatory publication of all criminal transactions concluded. Within the framework of the Kazakhgate Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry, the College of Attorneys General has promised to prepare periodic reports on the extended criminal transactions that have been concluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic015x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for the clarifications and answers you have provided. Indeed, Article 216a has been amended and now incorporates the principle of proportionality. In my view, it does not yet respond exactly to the operative part of judgment 83/2016, which required effective judicial review. It may be appropriate to move forward on the other elements of the issue, including the levels related to the amounts in the criminal transaction. I take note of your answers. We will probably come back to that, as well as to the periodic reports promised by the College of Attorneys General, to which we will pay attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic015x.u11	Minister, our prisons have repeatedly been pointed out for their unworthy conditions of detention: convictions for inhuman and degrading treatment by the European Court of Human Rights, and reports by the International Prison Observatory and the Saint-Gilles Supervisory Commission. On Wednesday 18 September 2019, six associations (the Brussels Federation of Institutions for Prisoners and Former Prisoners, the League of Human Rights, the International Prison Observatory – Belgian section, the Brussels Federation of Institutions for Drug Addiction, the Concertation of Associations Active in Prison and the Federation of Social Services) publish a white card in the newspaper Le Soir. They denounce the restrictions on access faced by psychosocial services – psychological help, follow-up for drug users, debt mediators, parents-child relay workers – for more than a few days now. Only five external professionals have access to prisoners at a time, which is largely insufficient. According to these associations, the shortage of staff among prison officers is the cause of this restriction of access. Minister, this is a new alarm bell about the conditions of detention in our prisons. We'd like to know if you were aware of this situation at Saint-Gilles Prison? What measures do you envisage to remedy this, in the very short term? What proposals would you make to address this problem on a sustainable basis? Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic015x.u12	Minister, Saint-Gilles Prison is one of our most overcrowded prisons. It currently has 850 prisoners for some 550 places, which makes the conditions of detention extremely difficult but also affects working conditions, including those of external services which are particularly essential to work on the reintegration of prisoners and thus on the reduction of recidivism, as well as on the reduction of tensions aggravated by this overcrowding. Since 2015, Saint-Gilles Prison has been constantly seeing these services accompanying detainees suspended or limited. In June 2015, due to a chronic shortage of staff, the Saint-Gilles prison management decided to abolish all collective activities, while training, cultural and sporting activities and psychosocial and philosophical support services were already extremely limited. You then proposed measures, such as new recruitments and the transfer of prison officers. But four years later, the situation remains very worrying since in mid-June 2019, an agreement was reached between the management of the Brussels prisons and the prison workers' unions. This agreement drastically restricts the access of external services to detainees in Saint-Gilles prison. In practice, only five professionals have alternate access to inmates. The tension has risen again this morning, since the staff of the Saint-Gilles prison have just announced that they would limit the movements within the institution, in order to work safely, thus denouncing the non-compliance of the prison management with the protocols. This means that the delivery of accused persons to the courthouse is extremely restricted, if not null, and that the premises and visits are not or are not supervised. In other words, only basic needs, such as the distribution of meals and medicines, remain insured. Therefore, Minister, what are the official reasons for limiting access to external services? What measures do you propose to remedy this? What measures have been taken to ensure a serious supply of training, education and career guidance activities in Saint-Gilles and other prisons? Has an evaluation of each activity and the possibility of maintaining it or not - obviously with respect to all security guarantees - been carried out before the June agreement? What is the status of the recruitments you already announced in 2015? What is the status of your consultation with the Community Ministers responsible for social assistance for prisoners and persons in need? Finally, more generally, how do you intend to ensure that the collective activities essential to inmate reintegration programs are maintained?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic015x.u13	Ladies, I've learned a lot about the problems you're referring to. The current social conflict in Saint-Gilles prison is mainly due to a shortage of surveillance personnel and the pressure exerted on them by detainees, who want to be able to use telephone booths more frequently. Various initiatives have been taken to fill the staff cadre, which is currently occupied at 98.7 per cent. At the beginning of October, it is planned to hire four staff members to fill it at 100%. The file of the installation of the telephone in the cells of this prison was subject to administrative and budgetary control. He obtained positive opinions from the Finance Inspectors accredited to the FPS Justice and the Régie des Bâtiments respectively and is therefore taking his course. This project must be completed within a period of more or less five months. This installation was initially not planned, due to the eventual closure of the Saint-Gilles prison. Given the precarious environment in which it is located - i.e., a high population, an old infrastructure and a very small supply of off-cell activities - I have nevertheless decided to extend the cell phone project to include this facility. It would be unrealistic for me to claim that from 1 October the situation will be stabilized. Although the supervisory cadre is being filled, the prison faces a very high rate of absenteeism. It is in this context that we must understand the agreement reached within the prison's basic consultation committee. This agreement sets out a number of guidelines to be followed in the event of staff shortages, so that the various activities can be carried out safely. This is in the interest of all the actors involved, be they prison staff or those of the external services. I hope, however, that this situation will be stabilised in the short term. My administration is making every effort to maintain sufficient staff supervision, install cell telephony and control the rate of overpopulation. There is no doubt that the opening of the Haren prison, as well as initiatives such as the future prison project, will strengthen our commitment to ensuring working conditions for our staff and living conditions for prisoners, which are worthy of our times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic015x.u14	Thank you, Minister. We recognize the long-term efforts; however, we remain concerned about the conditions of detention in this prison in the very short term.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic015x.u15	Thank you, Minister. Some elements have indeed been mentioned, but they are not in a position to reassure me, only on the contrary. You are announcing that recruitment will take place and that the framework will be complete. However, as you rightly pointed out, a problem of absenteeism remains. It is due in particular to the working conditions of these agents. Even if the framework were fulfilled in the long term, the working conditions were extremely difficult because overcrowding remained high in Saint-Gilles prison. It's all connected. I invite you not to work backwards. I'm sorry to say it that way. You should not present Haren's project as the great solution to the old age of other Brussels prisons. The urgency is to ensure decent conditions of detention. Domestic courts, such as the European Court of Human Rights, have pointed out. We have to work on this. Our goal of reintegration is at stake here, as is respect for the law. Indeed, I would like to point out that the Law of Principles of 12 January 2005 insists that the execution of the sentence must take place in psychosocial, physical and material conditions that respect human dignity. This is not the case today. On the other hand, some budgetary choices must be made. An assessment may also be required of measures taken to reduce the prison population. As far as Saint-Gilles is concerned, these measures have not borne fruit. I conclude by bouncing on what you have announced in terms of recruitment. On what model will these recruitments take place? The protocol referred to the possibility of Rosetta recruitment. I am not sure that this is the most appropriate measure, given that officers who are responsible for supervising inmates require significantly more training than those provided through Rosetta recruitment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic015x.u16	Madam President, Minister, the trial of Belgian foreign fighters in Iraq is no longer news. In the meantime, some of them have also been sentenced to death. Recently, about two weeks ago, an article was published in the American research magazine Foreign Policy that raises a number of additional questions. The article states that Belgians from Syria were brought to Iraq by American troops so that they can be tried there. That would also apply to Belgians who have never been to Iraq. Moreover, there would have been evidence against those Belgians manufactured. The article also deals specifically with the case of the Belgian Bilal Al Marchohi. Our country would have been in contact with the Americans. Can you confirm that Belgians were taken from Syria by American troops to Iraq? If so, how many Belgians are involved? Was our country aware of this in advance? What role did Belgium play in handing the Belgians over to Iraq? Did that happen at the request of our country? Do you think that the extradition of Belgians to Iraq is in line with Belgium's international legal obligations and with human rights? Our country issued an international arrest warrant against Al Marchohi on 26 October 2015. The United States should therefore have informed Belgium of its arrest. Did the United States indeed inform our country? If so, what was the reaction of our country? Was the extradition requested? If not, why not? Can you confirm that the Belgian security services have been in contact with Belgian prisoners in Iraq? What was the purpose of these contacts? Does our country monitor these contacts for possible torture? According to the research article, Bilal Al Marchohi was convicted on the basis of manufactured evidence. The American army would have informed Belgium of this. Was Belgium indeed aware of this information? If so, what happened to that information and why didn't it intervene? What is our country's attitude towards the trials of Belgian Syrian fighters in Iraq? In the meantime, how many Belgians have been sentenced to death in Iraq? What is your view on the fact that these Belgians have been sentenced to death? What efforts is Belgium making to prevent Belgians from receiving the death penalty abroad?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic015x.u17	Mrs Soors, certain information relating to the subject you mentioned has been classified and should not be communicated in the context of a reply to a parliamentary question. Moreover, I can only reply to you about services within my competence. I can confirm that two Belgian people have been arrested and convicted of terrorism in Iraq. As far as I know, no Belgian authority was consulted on the transfer to the Iraqi authorities and therefore there can be no agreement whatsoever on this transfer. Our country is not aware of the legal and practical circumstances of the transfer of these persons to the Iraqi authorities and cannot therefore decide whether or not they are lawful. Nor is there any request today for extradition of Belgians who are in Syria or Iraq and who are being prosecuted for acts of terrorism. In any case, extradition from Syria is not possible. Extradition from Iraq is difficult because of the lack of a bilateral treaty. The government does not communicate about measures taken by the intelligence services in individual cases. So I cannot tell you whether Belgian intelligence services have been in contact with Belgians who are being held in Iraq. A Belgian investigating judge, together with a magistrate of the federal prosecutor and two police investigators, interviewed one of the detainees in Iraq on the basis of an international rogatory commission and in the framework of the Belgian criminal investigation. Your questions regarding the follow-up at Belgian level to the situation of Belgians detained in Iraq relate, where appropriate, to the consular assistance and thus to the powers of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Iraq is a sovereign state, master of criminal proceedings conducted on its territory. Nevertheless, our country insists that these criminal proceedings and the execution of criminal proceedings respect international standards on torture and inhuman or degrading treatment. I can also confirm that Belgium opposes the use of the death penalty in Iraq or elsewhere and that Belgium has unequivocally reiterated this principle to the Iraqi authorities, whatever the facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic015x.u18	Of course, Minister, I respect classified information as well as the various powers. However, there are two issues in the whole of this matter that concern me a great deal. The first is that I feel that there is too much ambiguity about the possible fact that the article implies that Belgians have actually been transferred from Syria to Iraq. This would be a serious violation of Article 3 of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which means that no Belgians should be extradited to countries for which there is a suspicion of torture in the case of Iraq. In that sense, I do not think it is possible for Belgium to have two faces in the field of human rights. We have fought very hard for it, and we have even invested money in it, and that Belgium could take a seat in the UN Security Council, where we are fighting for the death penalty and for the better application of human rights. I would like to argue here that a rule of law can only be a rule of law if it defends the rights of everyone, even those whose society thinks they no longer deserve it, as is the case for Syrian warriors abroad. So I really urge you to follow these issues more closely. A second point I am concerned about, perhaps even more than the first one, is the impression I have of short-term thinking about our security. At the moment there are Belgian fighters trapped in Syria or Iraq. We know that this is an unstable regime. There are security experts who indicate that it is a matter of time before the doors of some of those detention camps open. No one has any control over what will happen next. At the moment, Belgium seems to be looking at this rather than really playing an active role in it. Just a few days ago, President Trump, not immediately the most reliable politician in the current political landscape, threatened to put European Syrian fighters back on the border with Europe. Once again, with all due respect for the division of competence with foreign affairs, I would like to urge you, who are members of the National Security Council, to ensure that this issue is also considered in the long term for the security of everyone in our country and that there is a better plan in this area than the mere succession that is taking place now.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic015x.u19	Mr President, my questions concern the fight against fraud, the fight against economic crime and what has happened in the last two legislative hours. When you had the status of Minister of Finance, you wanted to abolish the regularisations and set up specialised teams against financial and economic crime, the so-called MOTEMs. The opposite has happened in the previous legislature. You said at the beginning of the previous legislature that you wanted to continue the fight against fraud and financial crime. You yourself pointed to the creation of the MOTEMs, which makes sense, because you are part of the cradle of the idea and you agreed with the need for it. Later a change of course was made in Parliament. In 2015, it was found that the MOTEMs were not yet operational. At that time it was also found that the possibility of these teams existed, but that no fixed structure would be created. In 2015-2016 it also appeared that tax officials were only used for eight aid files, five of which were in Limburg. So for a large part of the country there was nothing. The Panama Commission in this House later made the recommendation to establish the MOTEMs as a permanent structure. Johan Delmulle asked in his Mercuriale, which was also referred to in the hearing last week, to establish the MOTEMs as a fixed structure. The hearing again showed that this fixed structure was requested. I have a number of questions, Minister. Firstly, in how many files have fiscal officials seconded from Finance provided assistance in investigations conducted by the decentralised units of the federal judicial police since 2015? Secondly, what progress has been made with the operationalisation of the MOTEMs themselves? Which have since started as a fixed structure? Thirdly, can you indicate for each MOTEM how many people have been assigned and what profiles it is about? It's usually about a mix of expertise from tax officials, police officers and social inspectors. Fourthly, have the officials seconded to the CDGEFID, coming from Finance, been transferred to the MOTEMs? How many people are we talking about? Fifthly, how many Treasury officials have been seconded to the MOTEMs in the meantime? So far, my questions about the state of play of the MOTEMs and their structure.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic015x.u20	Mr Crombez, the 16 tax officials who have been made available to the federal police are frequently consulted for tax analysis of current files or for punctual assistance. It is impossible to quantify their assistance in an exhaustive way. Only if they are the holder of their own research file will their specialized aid be included in the statistics. The figures therefore give a limited picture of global assistance. Of those files owned or titulariate there were ten in 2016, three in 2017 and five in 2018. With regard to the answers I have given to previous parliamentary questions, there are no changes. The creation of a temporary MOTEM is assessed by each district on the basis of concrete research elements. The multidisciplinary teams, MOTEMs, remain a temporary ad hoc structure. In the judicial district of East Flanders, for example, a permanent team of 14 detectives specializing in social and tax fraud was established within the federal judicial police, who often work together with the tax officials seconded to the public prosecutor-general in Ghent. With regard to social fraud, ad hoc investigation teams are set up with the most appropriate social inspection service. For the other FGPs, too, the MOTEMs are separate structures set up ad hoc to examine a dossier. The Royal Decree of 29 July 2019 lays down the rules by which tax officials are made available to the federal police. All 16 will be assigned to the Central Office for Combating Organised Economic and Financial Delinquency. They are deployed at the CDGEFID and from there on ad hoc in the various arrondissements of GDPs. I am convinced that it is necessary to improve cooperation between inspection services and police forces, but the creation of the MOTEMs must be done in the most flexible way.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-25-55-commissie-ic015x.u21	Minister, something must have happened between 2014 and today, because you too have the support to fight serious fraud and economic crime. I think I can say that. The call to do so with a fixed structure of teams with expertise is actually widely present. If Parliament adopts this recommendation again on the occasion of the Panama Commission, when it comes to the mercurials, when it comes to the hearing with the public prosecutor, and indeed, quite frankly, on the ground, then the question is what has happened in the few years in which the gun has completely changed its shoulder. There was an idea not to regularize anything, to make fewer settlements and to go hard, with a lot of expertise, after that specialized financial crime, but that idea is apparently abandoned. I am therefore only replying to one element of your answer, namely that you remain with your answers to previous parliamentary questions. This means that you are dropping and opting for flexible ad hoc structures, which you were previously in favour of. I deeply regret that, because tackling serious fraud and economic crime can only be done if people with expertise in a fixed structure have the time and opportunity to tackle them hard, and that is not the case. You're quoting the social fraud. There is more than EUR 200 million less revenue compared to the objectives in the budget. Ask on the ground and you will be told that there is currently no tough approach with expertise. I regret your answer, because I am still a strong supporter of less regularisation and a tough approach to fraud and economic crime, as we decided together in the previous government. Apparently, that approach is gone and I don't know why. I would like to know this, because it is basic to the vision and approach of the fight against fraud in our country, which, frankly, is not so good at the moment.
