ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic038x.u1	Colleagues, there is an exchange of views with the Minister for the Environment and Sustainable Development. Nine questions are linked to this exchange of views. Following the exchange of views, it is intended that each of you may take the floor, after which the Minister will answer your questions. I propose to start with an introduction by the minister. Then the questions on the agenda will come, then those of the other colleagues who wish to join the debate before hearing the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic038x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I will address the subject that we are dealing with exclusively in this exchange of views, the National Energy-Climate Plan (PNEC) whose final document we must submit by 31 December 2019 to the European Union, in accordance with the European Union Regulation 2018/199 on the governance of the Energy Union and climate action. Each State must therefore notify the European Commission of its 2030 Integrated Energy-Climate National Plan for this ultimate date. As you know, we are starting from a project that was sent to the European Commission on 31 December 2018 under the same process and legislation. In preparation for this exercise, we have therefore conducted several working group meetings. For those parliamentarians who have just arrived but who may already know, we call them the IKW (interkabinettenwerkgroepen). It is working on the preparation of the dossiers which are to come to the Council of Ministers for decision one day in the near future. I asked you to postpone this session, because a DAB was envisaged last week, namely the informal meeting of the group leaders of the Deputy Prime Ministers. This is the stage that follows the IKW meeting and precedes the arrival of a dossier in the Council of Ministers. Unfortunately, a member of the Open Vld was absent and absolutely wanted to participate. The meeting was thus postponed to 24 October. However, I still have a lot to tell you and I will come back at a next meeting to tell you about the state of play in this area, since our objective is that at the beginning of November, the steering group will have the opportunity to carry out a task of integrating the various Energy-Climate plans of the four levels of power, federal and regional, in order to be able to pass this integrated document on to the Committee for Consultation between the Federal and the Regions before notifying it to the European Commission. Schematically, on September 23, we had an intercabinets meeting (IKW) focused on the federal component of the National Energy-Climate Plan, because we are talking about the federal component here. On 30 September, we had a second IKW on the note to be sent to the DAB and the Council of Ministers. On 3 October, a third IKW was held on the finalization of the fact sheets and the overview table on the recommendations of the European Commission. On October 7, 2019, an IKW was held for the finalization of the fact sheets. This week, specifically on 24 October, a DAB will be held to approve and direct the matter to the Council of Ministers with regard to the federal government's contribution to the National Integrated Energy-Climate Plan. I shall now mention some retroacts. As I said, we are based on a draft dated 31 December 2018, which was approved by the Conciliation Committee on 19 December 2018 and notified to the European Commission. In this draft, our 2030 target in the non-ETS sector was to decrease by 35% from 2005. For renewables, our target was 18.3% gross energy consumption compared to final gross energy consumption. We had outlined several topics that we have discussed in more detail. I would like to point out that these issues are not just about energy. I am, indeed, Minister of Energy, Environment and Sustainable Development, but other functional ministers are integrated into this reflection because they have skills that need to be worked on in the federal version of this National Energy-Climate Plan. I'll start with my own skills. For my part, I am dealing with renewable energy in the North Sea offshore, while the Regions have the regional component which is theirs by renewables and which is mainly concentrated on onshore wind turbines and photovoltaic panels; not to mention biofuels, more precisely the percentage of biofuels to be integrated into traditional fuel. So that's what energy is all about. In the end, it's pretty small. Other functional sectors are involved in this reflection. In particular, the competence of Mobility, the aim being to develop as much as possible an inter-federal vision of mobility, to strengthen our rail transport offer, to think about the federal fleet, electromobility and about company cars. With regard to the competencies of federal buildings, the idea is to follow the regions which, in turn, have to take care of all the buildings within their territory and which are to be subject to an extremely ambitious energy efficiency plan which can contribute to the sharp reduction in greenhouse gas emissions associated with the heating of buildings. At the federal level, we must deal only with federal buildings, which fall within the jurisdiction of Minister Geens, with mobility entrusted to Minister Bellot. Tax measures are also involved in this reflection. They are linked to taxation so as to encourage as much as possible the use of means of transport, fuels and energy sources, which are the least possible emitters of greenhouse gases. Tax measures and financial flows in the National Energy-Climate Plan at the federal level must also include the intervention of the National Strategic Investment Plan launched by that Government and covering all of the above-mentioned vectors. The idea is to launch major infrastructure investment projects that tend to reduce greenhouse gas emissions on all vectors. In addition to this, some horizontal measures, which are of everyone's interest, are linked to the competitiveness of our businesses, the willingness to make a fair and inclusive transition and governance.These measures are being finalized at the federal level. Developed within the framework of the European Regulation recalled earlier, they were further elaborated in the context of the recommendations made to Belgium, after the tabling of its draft of PNEC, recommendations dated 18 June 2019, taking into account the contributions of the national public consultation that we conducted in three areas. The public was widely questioned, as were stakeholders and Regions, the countries around us. The work is based on a two-pronged sectoral approach, through the three vectors I have just described. On the one hand, mobility, buildings and energy and cross-cutting themes; on the other hand, competitiveness, fair transition and governance. The aim of the four entities' exercise is to respond to the European Commission's recommendations calling on Belgium to increase its energy efficiency ambition and, above all, to increase its renewable energy target to 25% by 2030. At the request of my office, on 21 October, a meeting of the CONCER/ENOVER administrative platform was held which dealt with the status of the NECP in all four entities. In fact, in this informal platform, representatives of the administrations concerned from the four levels of power (the Federal State and the Regions) are present. The federal level has outlined some of the elements that I will quickly describe: "The government is working to update its federal part to respond to the recommendations. It aims to arrive at a consolidated version of the federal contribution for the first week of November in order to allow the steering committee to begin the work of the integrated NECS." We are working on the dual approach. We recall that at the level of renewable energy, we have taken decisions on offshore, since our plan for the deployment of the offshore in the North Sea must reach 4 GW of installed power by 2030, in order to contribute to the national effort to increase the target for renewable energy. We emphasized strong governance of the National Energy-Climate Plan. You know, through the hearings you have followed, that it is not always easy to succeed in governance in this country, because of the strong regionalisation of certain competences, particularly in matters of interest to us. We also want to avoid, as we have pointed out, the eight-year delay before the completion of the first burden sharing for the period 2013-2020, which concerns the sharing of efforts between the four levels of power at the level of renewables, the reduction of greenhouse gases and the contribution to international financing under the Paris Pact. What are the positions of the Regions at this meeting? The Brussels-Capital Region announces that its contribution will be finalized by the end of October. The Walloon Region announces that the intercabinets, which are soon to begin, are on their way to finalisation. The Flemish Region intends to finalize its proposal later, since its government was formed later, but before 15 November. This will allow the position of each level of power to be received, since I will arrive in DAB this week before attending the Council of Ministers and the other levels of power promise to finalize their documents by the end of October or even early November. As soon as all the entities have compiled and validated their positions, the group leading the integration of the PNEC will have to work and publish a cleanup by 15 November, so that each level of power receives this document and an inter-federal IKW can be organized. It prepares the work that we will submit to the Consultation Committee of 18 December 2019 in order to notify, in time, the National Integrated Energy-Climate Plan of Belgium by 31 December 2019. I'm done right now, Mr. President, and I'm listening to your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic038x.u3	I shall first give the floor to those Members who have tabled a question. Mrs Farih is not here, and neither is Mr Warmoes. Mrs Daems has tabled six questions and is present.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic038x.u4	Thank you for your statement, Madam Secretary. I still have a whole series of explicit questions, and I hope you will be able to answer them explicitly. I expect clear positions on a number of aspects: on the NEFP, on ambition and concrete measures, on the use of biofuels, transparency, the dimension of human rights and gender, and on international funding. My first question concerns the level of ambition. In its response to the NEKP draft, the European Commission has made clear recommendations. She said that the Belgian climate ambitions should go up. For renewable energy, the European target is 32%, while the NEKP draft is only a small 18.3%. That objective is far too low to set us on the road to 100 % renewable energy by 2050. The European Commission calls on Belgium to increase the target for renewable energy to at least 25%. For energy efficiency, the European objective is 32.5 %. Belgium aims at 22 to 26 %. The European Commission describes this as a low ambition and also calls for a significant increase in Belgian ambition. As regards decarbonisation, Belgium should achieve a minimum reduction of 35% by 2030. The gap is large, because without additional measures Belgium achieves a reduction of 13%, which is 21% too little. At the same time, we know that the current European objectives are not even in line with the Paris climate agreement. In fact, both Ursula von der Leyen and Frans Timmermans have promised to increase the European targets to about 55% by 2030. It is therefore clear that the Belgian ambitions for the NEKP need to be drastically raised. That is why I have the following questions for you. What objectives will the NEKP final contain? Can you take a clear political position on this matter in this committee today? Will you increase the objective of reducing greenhouse gases in line with the Paris Agreement and science? Will the NEKP final contain additional quantified measures to achieve those objectives, or are you, on the other hand, building up an argument for the European Commission as to why Belgium should not meet those objectives? My next question is about biofuels. I would very much like to question you about your political position on this matter and about the ambitions of the federal government regarding biofuels and the NEKP. In the current NEKP you aim for an unprecedented growth of biofuels in the coming years. However, all advisory bodies and experts agree that the current policy on biofuels is counter-productive and even harmful to the climate. Both the Federal Council for Sustainable Development, the Central Council for Industry and the Council for Consumption are asking to avoid the use of biofuels based on food crops. They also underline that this type of biofuels can emit more CO2 than traditional fuels. The Policy Coherence Advisory Council for Development also gave an official opinion. He advises the federal government to ban first-generation biofuels from the NEKP in order to comply with our international commitments on sustainable development and, of course, in view of the fundamental right to food. It is quite clear to me that you need to fundamentally review the current targets for biofuels in the NEFP. Food-based biofuels should be phased out and then completely banned. The announced royal decision on the introduction of E85 petrol must be withdrawn. The objectives for advanced biofuels should be cautious and strict sustainability criteria should be provided. Can you clarify the Belgian ambitions for biofuels in the final NEKP today, in this committee? What final objectives will you include and pursue? Will you, in line with all the advice, phase out the use of first generation biofuels? What about your intention around E85? Then I have a question about gender equality and human rights. According to the recitals of the Paris Agreement and the European Governance Regulation, the dimensions of human rights, gender justice and sustainable development objectives should be included in the National Energy and Climate Plans (NEFP). In the current Belgian NEKP, these are missing. I would like to remind you that the Belgian government has made several international commitments on both human rights and gender justice and on sustainable development objectives. A large part of this is also enshrined in Belgian legislation or in international conventions. In terms of gender, climate change often hits women harder. The current NEFP is also threatening to increase existing gender inequalities. The transition to a carbon-free society can increase the gender gap and segregation in the labour market. For example, women are underrepresented in the renewable sector. We are also far removed from gender balance in the existing decision-making bodies. Oxfam-Solidarity recently published an opinion asking you to opt explicitly for a human rights-based approach in the final NEKP and to take specific measures to ensure gender justice in Belgium and countries of the South. Will you review the NEFP approach and add fundamental aspects such as human rights, gender justice and sustainable development objectives? What concrete measures do you take on gender equality in the NEKP and on gender balance, representation in the different decision-making bodies? I also have a question about transparency in the National Climate Commission. That committee is responsible for national climate policy in Belgium. There is a major democratic deficit in that body. It is not clear which positions are taken by the representatives of the various entities. Decisions are often blocked and there is a total lack of transparency in the National Climate Commission. The Climate Coalition has long demanded greater transparency. For example, they ask for access to agendas and reports from both the National Climate Commission and the other interfederal or inter-ministerial institutions working on energy and climate issues. The Federal Council for Sustainable Development also states in its opinions that greater transparency is crucial and that the positions adopted must be made public so that citizens know what is being defended on their behalf. Of course, that information is not new. What actions are you taking to improve the transparency of the National Climate Commission? Will you ensure that at least agendas, reports and positions taken are made public? We also request regular reports from Parliament, possibly in writing. Is that possible? My penultimate question concerns the long-term strategy. As part of the governance regulation, Belgium should submit a long-term strategy to the European Commission by 1 January 2020. This strategy should put Belgium on the path to climate neutrality by 2050. In its coalition agreement, the new Flemish government is only aiming for a reduction of 80% by 2050. Madam Minister, what is the status of the Belgian long-term strategy to be presented by the end of this year? Since the government is in ongoing business, do you intend to discuss this strategy with us in this committee before submitting it to the European Commission? What will you do with the ambition of climate neutrality by 2050, given the current position of the Flemish government? Then I have a question about international climate finance. Last month, the Climate Action Summit took place in New York City. To give a speech on that international event was only possible if one as a country had something to announce. Prime Minister Michel gave a speech in which he promised that Belgium would double his contribution to the Green Climate Fund. A doubling of the contribution of the federal government and the regions means at least EUR 120 million for the federal government, EUR 17,5 million for Flanders, EUR 19,5 million for Wallonia and EUR 6.5 million for Brussels. These contributions are minimum amounts, given the needs of developing countries. The budgets must not come from the already planned budget for development cooperation. A formal commitment round of the Fund will take place in Paris on 24 and 25 October. So we're running out of time. Do you guarantee that the federal government will double its contribution regardless of the other regions? What initiative will you take to achieve this as soon as possible? Will the federal government officially double its contribution on October 24 and 25?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic038x.u5	Madam Secretary, we had planned our meeting a week earlier. I understood it was being moved because you were waiting for some elements of information. Now it seems that we have another meeting before the IKW, which you were undoubtedly waiting for, has taken place. I have the impression that you could have given us the information you have given us today, even last week. I do not hear very much new information. You have briefly outlined the way things have been and will continue to be. It would be interesting for Parliament to have that timeline so that we can verify when we can talk about it in our committee. In view of the fact that the government is in current affairs, it will nevertheless be the committee and Parliament, which will cut the buttons and determine where the accents will be placed. As far as the contribution of the federal level in the field of renewable energy is concerned, we can discuss three main issues. I hear colleagues here arguing for higher objectives. Well, what do you think the federal level can contribute to that? Do you think, firstly, that by 2030 more than 4 gigawatts of wind energy will be developed offshore? Secondly, what are your intentions on biofuels? In a previous question, I heard a call for the share of biofuels to be reduced. It was pointed out that an unprecedented growth of biofuels is expected. Is it your intention to maintain, increase or reduce that share? After all, that is important to know. A third element in the field of renewable energy relates to what is being done, for example, by the Government of the Buildings for the public buildings and areas. However, I do not see any movement in this respect. I read in the energy and climate plan that a budget of around EUR 17 billion is needed for the renovation of public buildings. However, Minister None has replied to me that the budget of the Buildings for rational energy consumption, i.e. investments in insulation and solar panels, is EUR 4.16 million today. At that rate, therefore, we only need a little less than 4,000 years to achieve that amount. What proposals will the government make to Parliament in current cases to make progress in this respect? For a number of years it has been considered which areas of the federal government would be eligible for the production of wind energy through, among other things, tender. I understand that there is no progress in this area and that there is no such thing as a project. In any case, this is what your colleague Geens has said to me, that there are no plans today, even if the potential has been mapped out by the Buildings Regie. It is therefore absolutely important that we know what the federal level can and wants to do in this area. What contribution is being made? It is, of course, tempting to talk about the whole plan and to exceed the powers of the federal government, but we cannot do that. We need to stay within our powers properly. I would therefore like to hear from you in concrete terms how and when Parliament will be involved. What does the federal government think it can do and offer itself?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic038x.u6	Madam Minister, I would like to thank you and the previous speakers, who have already raised a number of issues. For the efficiency of the sitting, I shall simply mention it. It concerns, among other things, the aspect of biofuels. I am also looking forward to a more concrete input from the various opinions on the National Energy and Climate Plan. The ambition level of 14% and the sustainability level were questioned. As far as the level of ambition as a whole is concerned, I understand from your explanation that there has been a lot of meetings both at federal level and with the regions and that there has also been informal meetings with the European Commission. If we want to come up with an integrated plan at the beginning of November, it means that we are putting in place the final spurt today. So I would certainly have hoped to have a more concrete explanation of the direction of the final plan, especially since you have made a strong effort to come to Parliament to discuss it with us. Following on from the previous speakers, I would like to emphasise the principle of governance in particular. In your speech, you have said several times that it is important for the federal government to come up with an integrated plan. The Federal Council for Sustainable Development, which met here last week, set out its content with regard to the draft plan and underlined that its priority is to create an integrated and systemic vision, a consolidated plan, and a genuine cooperation agenda. That was also advocated by Jos Delbeke. With some goodwill on my part, I think I can conclude from your statements that you are actually saying the same thing. You have said a few times that you have put on the table that an integrated plan must be drawn up and that you will also ensure integration. Do you think, with your experience, that there is a feeling around the table that they want to try to write a joint plan? The four governments must, of course, be involved in this, but we must do more than simply sum up these four plans. Do you feel a dynamic in this direction, or do you think that the four governments on the Consultative Committee of 18 December will each simply put forward their own measures, which are simply merged and presented as such as an integrated plan? With my question, therefore, I would like to ask for a more detailed explanation of the process as it is now going on. You call governance one of our transversal measures. You also say that you do not want to wait another eight years before you arrive at a Burden Sharing. In everything you say, I hear attempts to get closer. I want to know whether you are actually getting closer to each other and whether there is any possibility of working together on an agenda. We are often reminded, as Members of this House, that ministers are currently limited in their work because of the government in current affairs. I am therefore now effectively addressing you in your capacity as Minister in current affairs, as a resignation or farewell minister in the current government in current affairs. If you look back on the route that has been taken over the past five years, what are your recommendations? Either way, you're gonna wrap this up. I think you're gonna be the minister signing the federal hatch. What are your recommendations for the next federal government? You are delivering something, you are noticing something, but its implementation is entirely up to another government, which should pursue a voluntaristic policy. We have heard many speakers here. That is why I would like to hear from you what you think is important and what points of concern you have drawn from your experience, and what suggestions you have made, including with regard to us, from Parliament. You have given an overview of the various meetings. A table of the European Commission's recommendations, as well as technical sheets, has been drawn up. Does the spirit of the meetings mean that the European Commission's recommendations will be followed up, or is work being done on a note explaining why Belgium will not follow these recommendations? I will leave it to you whether you are giving access to the course of the conversations within the NKC, but if you do not wish to do so, I will ask you at least for the Belgian level. In other words, will you follow the recommendations and improve the plan effectively, or does the federal government, through the NKC, already say that several Commission recommendations will simply not be followed and will, if necessary, be justified in relation to the Commission? If the latter is the case, what exactly are the points?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic038x.u7	Mr. Chair, Madam Minister, it is difficult for us to position ourselves, to question, to come back to questions that we have already asked in the past and for which we wanted answers. Unfortunately, we do not have any documents on which to base ourselves in order to be able to make constructive criticism or make our remarks. At this point, I think that it is not necessarily obvious for everyone to be able to give a point of view, if not to repeat what has already been said in the past. However, we held hearings. A Dutch representative had come to speak on the national level established in his country. A good lesson we could learn from it was precisely the consultation with the various parliamentarians. You have around the table Members who want to give their views, to be able to speak, but we do not have any documents on which to rely. I find that a pity. I have no particular comment, for lack of a document.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic038x.u8	Madam Minister, I note today in this committee that we have not received so much information. There has been talk of a timeline, but in the end I note that different speeds are being worked at different levels. I notice that the ambitions of the fellow Members here are very high, but when I read the Flemish coalition agreement, on the other hand, I see a completely different speed. You say that you will soon merge everything into one common plan. How will you do that in concrete terms? At the Flemish level they want to achieve different ambitions than here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic038x.u9	Madam Minister, I thank you for taking stock of this PNEC which, we understand, requires close cooperation between the different levels of power in Belgium, because of this division of powers based on exclusivity and autonomy. It is not simple, as we can see, to cut into a matter as transversal as the climate. On 15 November, you have just announced this, so Flanders will have finalized its Regional Energy-Climate Plan, like the other Regions. It will then be necessary to include the various regional plans with that of the federal government in order to make them a single project. In your opinion, in three weeks' time, when we get to the table to discuss this, will there be a need to change something, minister? To put it more clearly, what is your view, what are your recommendations on intra-Belgian cooperation on climate policy in the context of the final development of the NECP? In early September, you had a meeting with the various neighbouring countries on interconnection. We know that it plays a major role in the energy market. What is the input of neighbouring countries? What is the view on the progress and content of the Belgian National Energy-Climate Plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic038x.u10	Madam Minister, as chairman of this committee, I would like to ask you how you intend to involve Parliament in the drafting of the final version? You have given the timeline and the date of the Consultation Committee, 18 December, but there is also Parliament. At the moment, the government is in business. If the federal government wants to take a stand, I believe that there should be support for Parliament, for the majority. If you are going to discuss increasing the target of renewable energy from 18.3% to 25%, which we might be able to do with those windmills at sea if the deadline is met, then I think it is right that our committee and Parliament should be able to consider this. This question has been asked by many colleagues: how are we going to involve our committee, Parliament and, therefore, the federal government's point of view in this debate? We've had interesting hearings. Madam Secretary, you have been there many times, including as a member of this committee. The Dutch approach has attracted many colleagues, especially the approach with the climate tables, which we are doing more or less. You said that we have three major domains: mobility, transport and a third domain, and the horizontal approach. That's a bit similar. What charmed me in the Dutch approach is the system of calculation. The Dutch Planning Bureau has calculated the effects and the costs thereof. Mr Nijpels said here that the annual cost of adapting to the climate for consumers and businesses is around EUR 1.7 billion. So there's a cost, but he said it wasn't all that bad. Did we make that calculation for our country? One of the criticisms of the European Commission is the question of whether there is sufficient consideration of the objectives and measures listed in the draft plan that you have forwarded. Those are the two questions I wanted to ask you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic038x.u11	I will try, as far as possible, to answer all your questions, which obviously overlap. I thank each and every one of you for adding added value to the questions over the course of the discussion. In the end, it was Mrs Daems who kind of planted the decor and I will answer her in the first place. In the answers I will address to him, I will intervene and answer other questions that have been asked in order to try to obtain a complete picture. This is not an easy exercise, but I will try to do the best I can. Mrs Daems, we have taken note of the European Commission's recommendations, and although they are strictly non-binding, the Member State must expressly state that it does not follow a recommendation or a significant part of it. That's the base. Several of you have asked me whether we are already preparing a justification that would be hidden from you and which would tend to say to the European Commission: "We are trying to respect your recommendations but we are not able to do so and since they are not binding, we are justifying our failure by some reason." That is not the objective we are working on at all. In any case, the current working atmosphere aims to try to achieve, with a very firm will, and to raise the ambitions and achieve the objectives as desired by the European Commission. Our context is this one. Of course, last week I could have made the same comment to you, but I take every time to aggregate the new things in what I'm telling you so that you have up-to-date information. I would like to come back after Toussaint's "holiday" to explain what was decided again in the later stage of the DAB. However, it must be clear that I will not come to Parliament until the government has given its opinion on the work that we are doing and that we are going to present at the end of this DAB to the Council of Ministers. It is therefore only when the federal position is finalised in the Council of Ministers that I will come to explain it to you. The second fundamental element that needs to be understood, every time we think about these matters, is that you will have only the federal position. In this case, you will only have that of the Minister of Energy, unless you invite at the same time the other functional ministers involved in the various federal vectors on which we are working. In my opinion, and in my experience, this would be more effective because in terms of recommendations, you would have a message of some consistency that could be better received and better understood. This would prevent you from being confronted every time with an answer on my part, perfectly legitimate and normal, which is to say that I can answer you about energy, but as far as the other measures are concerned, my colleagues must be asked, because they will do so much better than I do, in the technique that comes out of their competence. You will have the opportunity, at this time, to have a full view of what the federal government is putting in the National Energy-Climate Plan. But I come back to my point 2: you will not have the contributions of the Regions. We won't be able to explain it to you. What does the steering group do? It is a group of experts at all levels. For the federal government, experts from DG Energy and DG Environment work in these areas. For each subject, such as mobility, federal energy efficiency, etc., there are complementary experts. Each Region also comes with its experts in this steering group. The idea is really to aggregate these contributions and to form the necessary path to achieve the objectives set by the European Commission's recommendations. That's how it works. I'll have to say it again. Please do not beg me: I think it is necessary to insist on this. As regards renewable energy objectives, I should first of all like to inform you that the objectives proposed by Belgium are the result of the sum of the contributions that the regions and the federal government want to make on offshore wind energy and biofuels. You asked whether Belgium will increase that objective. This depends on the political discussions with the regions on the adjustments to the design of the NEKP, talks that are about to start. I repeat in French approximately what I have just said. In essence, achieving European objectives is the result of the combined efforts of the four levels of power. As far as the offshore is concerned, beyond the increase in the installed capacity by 2030 of 4 GW, founded and launched by a text that you voted for, the 2030 Development Plan, and which will generate a series of public procurements that will provide the best technology at the best cost, I can already tell you that there is an additional strip of land that we could consider developing. It is not yet on the agenda, but it is still possible. However, beyond that, there is no longer a place in the North Sea. I would like to pay attention to the fact that the federal government, by renewables, can do nothing but develop wind in the North Sea and that when their installation is completely completed, it will only remain the international development related to the taking at sea (which we have already discussed shortly). We recently inaugurated a sea take that already allows today to link the energy produced by the last three parks of the salve 2008–2020: the Rentel park with the other two that complete this phase. The energy generated by these last three parks is channelled through this catch. But this catch also has the ability, in the medium and long term, if it is duplicated (not this one but another), to be able to connect to offshore wind farms of other countries around us such as Great Britain, Denmark, Holland (which is very close and its wind fields are visible) and Germany. All of this constitutes the federal offshore development, in the medium and long term, which, given its effectiveness, will enable us to achieve the federal objectives within the framework of the National Energy-Climate Plan. Let me remind you that the effect is to be achieved in 2030. We have a little time ahead of us. So we don't have to look at things as if we were talking about today for yesterday. At the regional level, you know there are onshore wind projects. You also know that there are plans for intensive installation of photovoltaic panels trying to control the cost, which is not easy. There are renewable energy projects, perhaps in biomass. There are many other projects which, together with the North Sea offshore project, make us believe that we will achieve the objective desired by the European Commission, as stated in its recommendations. Let me turn to the biofuels issue. Biofuels will not contribute in a phenomenal way to the "renewable" segment of the federal government. I repeat that it was first and foremost a tax imposed by Europe that initially imposed 14%. Bearing in mind the technical difficulties and the oppositions that are associated with the fact that these biofuels consume natural materials that should be oriented towards other sectors, we are in the process of reaching an agreement with the European Commission that this rate – complementing our offshore efforts – should be around 12.5%. It would be declined as follows: maximum 7% of first generation biofuels; minimum 3.5% of advanced biofuels; 1.7% of biofuels produced from raw materials included in Part B of RED II. This scenario of progressive percentages would last until 2030, but would revolve around this proportionality standard. Other aspects are more foresight and, for the time being, lack technical reality. Perhaps they will take shape in the decades to come. I am thinking of hydrogen, whose development will produce – if everything goes right – a disruption. In other words, it will change our perception of things, because we will then be able to use technology more systematically at the industrial level. Moreover, with our neighbours, we have entered into partnerships to improve our renewable generation – in short, machines producing electricity from wind turbines in the North Sea, as well as hybrid interconnection and transition to other energy carriers such as hydrogen. With regard to the National Energy-Climate Plan, I would like to talk to you about my experience. In my first experience, in 2014, when I took up my duties, we were faced with an urgent need for electricity supply, as the lack of supply was waiting for us. Despite this, we started to work on the 2013 burden sharing, which had remained in rade and was expected to end at least before the Paris agreement. When I came to the government, the first COP, if I remember correctly, was taking place in Lima and I was unable to participate. We knew that the Paris COP, like all the other COPs, actually since Oslo COP, were seen as opportunities to finally get an agreement. Finally, it happened in Paris. We felt it. That motivated us. It's important to have guidelines. We know that we are not going to attend an international event without a final agreement. At the time, this agreement had been waiting to be completed for six or eight years. I can't remember exactly the number of years. Some say eight years, others say six. This agreement was a prefiguration of the National Energy-Climate Plan. It's exactly the same mechanism. What happened? Among the ministers responsible, we have decided to meet very regularly and very closely. As you pointed out, Mrs Van der Straeten: as I speak to you, we have three newly established regional governments, with three new climate ministers, one in each new regional government. Among them, there is none of the colleagues I worked with and with that I could continue the work with. So I have to see these ministers again, what I did. As they were designated, I invited them to my office. The last one I'm going to receive this week is Zuhal Demir. She will come to discuss with me these issues related to burden sharing 2021-2030 and the 2030 National Energy-Climate Plan. I've already met Philippe Henry and Alain Maron. Now I'm going to see Zuhal Demir, the aim being to try, throughout the time of my presence that I use extensively to work on these issues, to form a working community among us that is used to talking together, to exchange and to integrate. This seems to me to be fundamental: we need links, coordination and this up to the highest level. Administrations must work together and maintain a common agenda. There is a need for leadership and political leadership, and policies must work together. In 2015, we started working very hard together, each coming together with our expert collaborators to find a solution. We expanded at times to the National Climate Commission, we used all the resources of experts we had the opportunity to use the techniques, and we finally developed a methodology and that's the second element. During this work, I had several ministers, as a result of ministerial changes during the legislature at the regional level, and I had to return to work each time. This is how we made the burden sharing, the inter-federal energy pact and the draft of the PNEC. Every time, it worked because we worked together. That's what matters. We have developed a methodology that, unfortunately, I am the only one who is still familiar with it, because the three regional ministers do not know it. So I will have a duty to work with them to explain to them and their experts how we worked. Indeed, it seems to me useful to transmit this methodology and to ensure that it, which gave the results of the first burden sharing, is used for the one who will follow. Basically, what are we doing in the National Energy-Climate Plan? Same thing. The questions are almost always the same. The number of instances we have is not making our work easier. We have the federal IKWs, the inter-federal IKWs, the National Energy-Climate Commission, the ENOVER/CONCER platform, the concertation committee; each level of power must pass before its government. Don't you realize that? When the political agreement on burden sharing came out, the legal text was submitted the following year to the Council of State and the Council of State said that the seven parliaments of that country had to decide on the matter. Academicians mandated to work on governance pointed to this problem – in fact, some, in complete freedom, released a text called "Climate Law", during the previous legislature. The Federal Council on Sustainable Development also raised this issue by advocating the organization of these many forums. Can we do this through the agenda? Certainly! Through the leadership of ministers, who see each other and work together? Certainly! But, in my view, there should be intelligent restructuring, without hindering anyone or abolishing useful things, from all the bodies with which we have to work. A government will always work with working groups. This must not be touched. But these bodies may need to work in a coordinated manner. They must be given the structural and institutional means to function better, so that information can circulate with equal content. These are the recommendations I would make for the future and now. For Mrs Daems, I will go a little further on biofuels. The final project of the PNEC provides for a biennial study. The aim is to assess the technical feasibility of the incorporation rate, the availability of the resource, the environmental integrity and potential conflicts of use, as well as the availability of advanced fuels on the European market and the cost to the consumer. The interfederal study will be carried out during the first half of 2020. On the basis of the results, the incorporation rate will be adjusted, if deemed necessary. It is also important to point out that, in order to comply with the obligation to mix biofuels, it is only possible for registered oil companies to have sustainable biofuels recognised. The criteria required for this purpose, in accordance with an approved voluntary scheme, were laid down in Belgian law in accordance with Directive 2009/28/EC. According to Directives 2009/28/EC, which I have just mentioned, and 2018/2001, the use of first-generation biofuel is limited to 7%. I said it earlier, but I say it again. As far as this limit is concerned, it should be specified that it is expressed in terms of energy and that it is applicable to all fuels, diesel and petrol, which are put on an annual basis for consumption. It should also be noted that the share of biofuel produced from raw materials such as residues or waste increases every year. In the case of petrol E85, i.e. maximum 85% ethanol volume,... For petrol E85, with a maximum content of 85 % ethanol, the design of the Royal Decree aims to allow companies wishing to do so to market that fuel on the Belgian market. It is by no means an obligation to put that type of petrol on the Belgian market. Initially, the share of E85 petrol is likely to be limited, given the technical requirements and the intended potential price. That's for biofuels. I turn now to your question about gender equality and human rights – the gender issue. As you rightly pointed out, gender and human rights were included in the Paris Agreement. In particular, there is a paragraph in the preamble to the Paris Agreement which states that the parties to the agreement in taking action on climate change shall respect their respective obligations, inter alia, on human rights and gender equality and shall promote and consider human rights and gender aspects. The inclusion of these principles in the final agreement is in part due to the fact that the European Union, Belgium and its main negotiators – I was present, so I can talk to you about it, and it was a subject that I was very close to heart – have worked hard to achieve this goal in the negotiations in Paris. Our country has also remained active in the negotiations that followed the Paris agreement, which was to establish the rules for implementing the agreement. This led to the adoption of Katowice's Climate Package at the end of 2018. In those negotiations, it was agreed, among other things, that countries would be encouraged to designate a national focal point for gender, climate negotiations, implementation and monitoring. This led Belgium to appoint its first focal point for gender equality in February 2018. It is in part thanks to this work that paragraph 45 of the preamble to the Regulation on European Governance 2018/99 states that Member States have human rights and gender equality aspects to include adequately in their PNECs and long-term strategies, and must report on their implementation in their progress reports. In your question you also referred to the principle of sustainable development in the light of the objectives. In reviewing the Paris Agreement, you will have noticed that not only the link between climate and sustainable development is explicitly recognised, but that sustainable development in general is a guiding principle and a general basic principle throughout the text of the entire agreement. It is clear from all this that gender equality, respect for human rights and sustainable development are at the heart of our country's climate policy and thus also apply to the NEKP. In addition, the law on equality between women and men and the anti-discrimination law anchor the principle of gender equality in the broader sense in the Belgian legislative framework. The implementation of legislation implementing the National Energy and Climate Plan should therefore take explicit account of these overarching principles. I will also endeavour to anchor these principles in the final version of the NEKP, which is now being worked out and which should be submitted to the European Commission before the end of the year. I now turn to the question of transparency. I share your view on the importance of principled political transparency and also on the work of the National Climate Commission. It is well known that the functioning of this body can be greatly improved. That refers to what I told you earlier in the recommendations. The number of structures and their unknown work make things very opaque. There are many actors and analysts, among them politicians, who say that there is a need for much more transparency and that all these structures (there is not just the National Climate Commission) must work with greater transparency now. As of March 15, 2017, everyone could already consult the agendas. We did it. Approved decisions and related documents resulting from our international reporting obligations are available on the National Climate Commission website. Among other things, the agenda for the next October 23rd meeting includes approval of its 2017 and 2018 activity report. I will ask my representative to the National Climate Commission to ensure that the report is made public and communicated to the House by the President of the National Climate Commission. I would also remind the Commission that it has a responsibility to inform parliamentarians properly and regularly. As regards the transparency of policies and the way in which the various political actors – and therefore the Parliaments of our Belgium – participate in the formulation of these policies in a regular and coordinated manner, a working group on governance takes place and works within the National Climate Commission. At its next meeting, I would add that the National Climate Commission will consider the synthesis report of this working group and possible next steps. I will now speak on the long-term strategy before returning to some of the questions posed by the other parliamentarians. Mrs Daems, you should know that one of the many working groups of the National Climate Commission is responsible for examining Belgium's long-term strategy. Another is entitled "Consultation on energy between the Federal State and the Regions" at CONCERE-ENOVER. You can see that there are many structures. These groups are composed of experts from the various administrations involved. As regards methodology, it has been decided at political level that the federal government and each of the three Regions should develop their own long-term strategy, which will then be integrated into a long-term national strategy for Belgium, as required by EU legislation. The intention was initially to finalize the so-called entity-specific strategies by the end of September and to integrate them by the end of October. However, given the delays in the development of entity-specific strategies, the timetable had to be revised during the last summer. The strategies of the four entities are now expected by the end of October. The deadline for compilation and integration was 22 November. After that, Belgium's long-term strategy can be finalized at political level by the end of December. The proposal for a long-term strategy must be validated by the Concerted Committee, the political entity that brings together the Regions and the federal government, in order not to find agreements, which is regrettable, but to have a consultation on the objects shared by the various institutional reforms. With regard to Objective 2050, you will have noted that at European level the minds are getting older and that the December European Council may decide that the Union should be climate neutral by 2050. In its proposal for a long-term strategy, A Clean Planet for all, the European Commission has already shown that this is not only desirable and can be made feasible and affordable, but that it can also provide a positive boost for our economy and employment. Of course, some Member States could still emit net greenhouse gases by 2050, just as other Member States could achieve net negative emissions. Thus, it remains to be seen how the EU objective of climate neutrality will be distributed among the Member States by 2050, but it is clear that by 2050 all Member States will have to be at least almost climate neutral and that margins for redistribution are limited. I therefore welcome the fact that the Brussels and Walloon governments incorporate this ambition in their government agreements and I hope that, just as it is happening at European level, spirits will mature further at Flemish level, so that we can position Belgium at the head of the peloton and reap the full benefits of the shift towards a climate-neutral, sustainable society, particularly in terms of innovation, economic opportunities, energy independence and health. There was one final question on transparency. The Prime Minister promised in New York to ask Parliament to double global Belgian climate financing. As you know, Belgian climate finance consists of contributions to several multilateral funds, such as the Green Climate Fund, but also the Special Climate Change Fund, the Least Developed Countries Fund and other funds. In addition, Belgium is also implementing the climate finance promised through its bilateral and multilateral cooperation. However, the administration of these funds is carried out by the Minister responsible for Development Cooperation. As Minister responsible for the climate at the federal level, I am kept regularly informed when projects under this framework are funded. With regard to petrol E85, the draft Royal Decree on this matter is intended to allow companies which so wish to place this fuel on the Belgian market. I told you. I come to the other questions. I am asked about Parliament and Mr Wollants has asked me the question of day-to-day affairs. As I said, day-to-day business does not prevent us from making certain decisions, and it is therefore up to the government to arbitrate them (at least it will arbitrate the decisions it considers to be able to arbitrate in day-to-day affairs). I repeat, I do not see myself coming up with an interesting and in-depth discussion as long as I am not in the government. In all likelihood, I should be there in the next few days, probably in November. Once the federal government has made its decision, I will come back to comment on this decision with you. As regards energy efficiency, a question was asked by Mrs Daems. I would like to stress that we must get used to the regionalisation of this matter. The only thing I can do at the federal level, as I have already said, is to deal with the energy efficiency of federal buildings. All buildings in the regions, which are not federal buildings, are subject to a regional policy aimed at achieving the target set by the Directive or, at the very least, the percentage of energy efficiency required by the European Directive, namely 32.5% by 2030. It is therefore in the contributions of the Regions that we will see almost all the effort to achieve this objective. As far as the Dutch approach is concerned, it is a very pragmatic approach (as is often the case in the Netherlands) which is not necessarily beyond our reach. Indeed, it is not because we are Belgians and located further south that we are not able to be so pragmatic. Having said that, I believe that part of the financial assessment of the cost of the National Energy-Climate Plan can already be planned, but it cannot have a concrete impact until a full-year government is in place. We are pushing all federal colleagues who work with us on these issues to try to have a projection in terms of funding. This is not always easy. Not everyone necessarily answers. I'm saying it for you, Mr. President. All political groups involved in this government in day-to-day affairs and all functional ministers included in this work of the National Energy-Climate Plan must be able to make this effort to agree to project certain figures. As for saying that we are going to be able to complete them precisely, with the budgetary impact that they might have, in my opinion, the issue cannot be resolved – and I think the government will agree – as long as the government is in day-to-day business. In order to include precise figures as part of the development and implementation of this National Energy-Climate Plan, it will necessarily require a succession of budgets voted in Belgium at the federal level, which will only be possible when we have a new full-function government. So it's urgent and I'm not the only one to say it. You have again seen Europe's reaction to the budget we have presented. It is therefore urgent that we have a full-fledged government as soon as possible. The sooner the better. I have no doubt that once this government is in place, we will be able to draw heavily from the Dutch approach and draw up formidable tables that will allow us to see the precise impact, knowing that it is always more complicated in Belgium with its Regions. We have regional and federal costs. Both must not be mixed. Federal money should not be used to fund regional policies and regional money should not be used to fund federal policies. This is an additional complexity that we will have to take into account when drawing up these tables. I think I tried to answer all your questions. Forgive me if, at times, my flow was slower or a little chaotic in Vondel's language! I had to incorporate all your questions into the answers that had been prepared by my administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic038x.u12	The Dutch approach will therefore only be possible with a full-fledged government.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic038x.u13	Madam Secretary, thank you for the detailed explanation. It is important for Parliament to be able to do its thing in this. I hear you saying the government has to lay its eggs first. For me, then, the question is how long the government will do about it. After all, at the end of the journey, that government does not represent very many MPs today. This brings me to a second aspect. By the way, I have read the documents of the FPS Economics Committee, the same as those put forward by the National Climate Commission. According to that document, the federal contribution to the design of National Energy and Climate Plan was not approved by the government: the government only took note of this. The question then is how we proceed with that. So, on what basis did that approval come? I would be interested to know when we can get to work on this, with the possibilities that exist. You have also provided a clear picture of what is and is not possible in the field of renewable energy. I have the impression that within the federal powers we are at our limit, but I also understand that you do not want to make statements to Mr None regarding his ambitions for the Buildings Regie. In the field of renewable energy, he does not really have ambitions for these buildings. In any case, I take your recommendation that your colleagues with powers to deal with this should also have a say in the matter before the government, in current cases, decides on the National Energy and Climate Plan, or at least on the federal part of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic038x.u14	Madam Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for the reading you have given on developments over the last five years and for your recommendations. In my opinion, this is a very valuable input which can give us all some thought. Anyone who wants a voluntaristic climate policy will have to think about how we can organise ourselves in this country to enable such a policy, with respect for the powers and for our state system. If we work together, there's a lot to be done. In particular, the desire for cooperation must be present; this is certainly still a serious issue. Mr President, cooperation with Parliament could perhaps be reversed. Last week we did so in this committee when we discussed the arrangements for the work. From our committee, we asked the government to make a proposal, but nothing came out in concrete terms. Perhaps we can do the same for this matter. I understand that the Conference of Presidents has promised a plenary debate on climate change.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic038x.u15	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic038x.u16	The Conference of Presidents discusses the possibility of holding a plenary debate on climate change. Forgive the semantics. A plenary debate will in any case have to be prepared in this committee. That is why I think it makes sense for us to do preliminary work in this committee, rather than defending our own principles in plenary. The Minister has informed us when which bodies will meet. Perhaps it makes more sense for us to set a date ourselves and to ask Parliament to be informed again on that date about what has been said. We must also formally request the documents until then. Several Members pointed out that we were discussing this without having any texts at our disposal. That is why we can ask for the texts to be delivered to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic038x.u17	We realize that, through the matter of climate, we quickly reach the limits of the Belgian system – which can be similar to a gas plant – that undermines the ambitions we would like to have. That's the way it is. We can't help it. I would like to join previous speakers in calling for Parliament, particularly this committee, to be involved in the work, given that the deadlines are very short. We have two months left to intervene. Every member of this committee is motivated to make the most ambitious proposals possible. Regarding the offshore, you said we were at the maximum of what we could do. Belgium's ambitions rest very strongly on the Regions, which themselves have very different ambitions, which is a pity.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic038x.u18	Madam Minister, I would like to thank you for your recommendations and insights about five years of cooperation federalism. When it comes to climate change, I think you have proposed it a little too rosy. We all know that the Burden Sharing was discussed in advance on 4 December 2015. An agreement has therefore been reached. I also wish you every success for the next Burden Sharing, but the Flemish position is already known. As an opposition party par excellence, we need to hear a lot of things from the newspaper. I read that Mrs Demir, whom you will be receiving this week, has already made her position known. There will be a definitive Flemish energy and climate plan in December. That is what she said in the Flemish Parliament. Maybe the records are together in advance. I don't know what Mrs Demir will tell you this week. It makes statements on nuclear energy, which is not within its competence. Two weeks ago, just after the first debate in the Flemish Parliament, she questioned the full core step for 2025. I hope that the French-speaking colleagues will also read the Flemish press and read what the Flemish government wants on national energy and climate policy. I hear my colleague say that we are colliding on the boundaries of the Belgian model. Everyone establishes and takes note. The Flemish level says: Mrs Marghem, if you want to go up to 55 percent for the federal level, no problem, but we in Flanders are in a different situation with the petrochemical industry in Antwerp and we have to take that into account. We have different insights. We are going for at least 80%, whatever that means. We may not even make it up to 35 per cent for the non-emission sectors. This is quickly swept under the mat, but we still live a bit in a different reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic038x.u19	Minister, thank you for your answers. On behalf of my group, I also stress the role of Parliament in advancing the work of the PNEC, which is fundamental to our country's credibility in European bodies. I have heard that you are calling for an intelligent restructuring of the bodies. It will be important to monitor these bodies in order to envisage a more rational functioning of what my Socialist Party colleague has called the gas plant. It's a voluntarist question. When I hear my colleague from Vlaams Belang say that there is a petrochemical industry in Antwerp, I remind him that the Netherlands has made progress in this area when it has the largest port in the world in Rotterdam. We must therefore be voluntary in this area and want to do so: this is the key to success.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic038x.u20	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your statement. I would like to reply to your answer to my question about the level of ambition. You say that you work in an ambitious atmosphere and that you want to achieve the European objectives. I think that is very positive. You said earlier in this committee that Belgium is in favour of an increase in European climate ambitions. You also said that you welcomed the intention of the new European Commission to increase these climate ambitions. New European Vice-President Frans Timmermans promised in the European Parliament an increase in the European 2030 targets to.55 %. I therefore expect the same ambitions in your policy. I would also like to comment on the answer to the question on biofuels. If I understand correctly, you do not intend to phase out first generation biofuels. I wonder how you can justify this attitude. Almost all the experts and all the advice you have obtained require you to extract and phase out first generation biofuels from the NEKP. This position was also adopted by all the parliaments of that country with the adoption of the interparliamentary climate resolution. Even the public survey of the NEKP shows that biofuel is not the option most people prefer. You now declare that you will not do this. I find that incomprehensible. As regards transparency within the National Climate Commission, you say that the reports are available and can be consulted. I'm aware of this. I looked up a report and I found it, but it's very brief and vague. The report does not reflect what discussion has taken place, who has taken what position and why certain decisions have been postponed. I would like to repeat once again that citizens have the right to know which positions are being taken on their behalf. I would therefore expect this to be reflected in the report. I think something has gone wrong with the question about international climate financing. I have not heard an answer to that question, but I would like to insist once again that the funding that will be released for that purpose should not be at the expense of existing development aid. Finally, the draft NEKP was adopted on 19 December 2018 and does not yet take into account the mass mobilisation started on 2 December 2018 with Claim The Climate and youth mobilisation throughout the year. I hope that this will be taken into account in the NEKP final. It is our view that Belgium urgently needs to re-federalise its climate power. We hope that this can be done better, otherwise there will be four climate ministers and zero policies.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic038x.u21	What was your first question about Ursula von der Leyen and the European Commission? In relation to Belgium's ambitions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic038x.u22	Well, we hope you will increase your ambition to about 55 percent.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic038x.u23	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic038x.u24	Mr President, I would like to intervene. Our questions are about merging the four climate plans. I have not been reassured today that we will do better in the future. We'll keep following it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic038x.u25	Colleagues, the Minister is planning a meeting of the SAB. We will invite the Minister to report to us on what has been agreed within the government in day-to-day business. Then we will see in committee what we should do about it. Of course, the government cannot do much because it is in current business, but there is also such a thing as urgency and necessity. If I'm well informed, the government has to do something if there's a certain deadline. I hope there is a willingness to have an open debate with Parliament on the text agreed by the government. I'd like to ask you to do that. We will therefore set a date which will suit you, Madam Minister, of course preferably a date before the meeting of the Consultative Committee on 18 December, because it will then be very late. That's 13 days before the end of the year.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic038x.u26	Mr President, I shall reply to Mr Wollants on 18 December. It is customary, and this should not be overly worrying, for the consultation committees, which are the final stages of a process, to be held at the end of the year. I remember last year, we had a consultation committee on December 19 on the draft of the NCP. If, at the federal government level, there was an act, it was because your party did not agree to fully vote on this National Energy-Climate Plan. We have to remember things as they are. I like real things. We have explained this to the European Commission. When we explained to him, you were no longer in the government. Since then, we have been in a government in day-to-day affairs, which will take a stand on a text that will become final. You didn't have to leave, you felt you had to. Now we're going to take a stand. What can Parliament do? Parliament can, of course, take decisions that have a budgetary impact. But in such a complex and vast matter, it would not make much sense to go to that point. We must speak in practice when we ask what Parliament can do. Parliament may examine a text, may give its opinion, may be in favour, may be against, may consider that the government is wrong to go in that direction, that it should go in another. But going so far as to finalise where a government in day-to-day affairs cannot do so because it cannot present a budget, it would, in my opinion, undermine the budgets that will come, especially from political groups that may be called upon to form part of a forthcoming majority. They will therefore block themselves in the implementation of a forthcoming budget. It seems to me that this would not be wise, and rather that it is necessary to really wait for the effort to be made to have a full-fledged government that will have a full view of the entire federal state budget, and that will be able to include in it the budgetary efforts to be made for the implementation of the National Energy-Climate Plan. I believe that, in all wisdom, Parliament must be able to deal with this issue, and probably at the end of November, when the federal government has made its decision. After that, in December, there will be an inter-federal inter-cabinet meeting, which prepares the work of the Consultation Committee. But here, it is the Regions that arrive with their texts, or more precisely their particular accents. To answer another question, the final text will be compiled and integrated by the steering group. It is on this inter-federal object that the experts of the various cabinets responsible for these matters at the regional and federal level will study to prepare the work of the Concertation Committee. The federal share, however, is complete and complete. I believe that we can still hold this meeting at the end of November. We'll see. I agree with Mrs Van der Straeten that if a debate takes place in plenary, it is better to prepare it, so that it does not go in every direction. I'm moving on from one question to the next. As far as the Regions are concerned, some would have different objectives, because we would no longer live, as Mr Ravyts says, in an identical culture in the north and south of the country. But we still have European obligations. In the face of Europe, these obligations go through the federal government. It happened once before and we really looked smart, if you'll allow me the expression. We had to respond to a request to increase efforts on renewables and energy efficiency, on the basis of directives that were to be voted on 4 December 2018. During the preparatory work, I saw a mismatch of positions between the different regions, which are much more competent in energy efficiency than the federal one. Indeed, we only have to manage the energy efficiency of federal buildings. The Regions also have all the renewables, covered by the second Directive, in onshore wind turbines, photovoltaic panels and others. They had to rely on the flow of time. We had to agree, because we want to be ambitious rather than take a stand back by saying we don't want to be. It was in Wallonia, Flanders and Brussels. Result? In front of the whole world, Belgium seemed ridiculous, because once the directives were voted, if they were voted by a simple majority in the European Parliament, they were binding on all European countries, including Belgium. This one, after saying no, will have to apply the yes. What then is the point of highlighting differences? Indeed, on the moral level, we must have common objectives for the citizens of the world, and not only in Belgium. And at the European level, that is of no use either, since we have obligations to respect. All this becomes very theoretical, you see. I think we need to talk to the regional ministers, as I do and as I am going to do shortly with Mrs Demir. I think if there's a will, there's always a way. If we want to do this, we can do it. With regard to the last somewhat domestic question about first-generation biofuels, I will speak to my colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic038x.u27	The question was about the 7% first-generation biofuels. I would just like to point out that this percentage was already included in the RED I Directive. It was included in Directive II which required each Member State to provide for 14% of renewable energy sources in transport. Initially, three scenarios were used: the first scenario was a blend of 8.5%; the second scenario was a blend of 10%; the third scenario was a mix of 12.2%. The minister spoke of this, and this third scenario was preferred for the simple reason that for first-generation biofuels, in 2000, when the Renewable Energy Directive was negotiated, there were companies that invested in Wallonia and Flanders – BioWanze and Ghent. In order to safeguard investment security and still maintain a favourable climate for such investments, the Commission and the Member States have indeed proposed to extend this percentage by 7% until 2030. That's what was agreed. The Minister also spoke about the evaluation that will be carried out at a later date. We have also put forward other conditions on the fact that first-generation biofuels must meet the sustainability criteria. We have demanded that raw materials come from the European area. I would also point out that we have commissioned an impact assessment from the Federal Office of the Plan, which has given a positive opinion on this matter, focusing on the contribution of these biofuels to the reduction of greenhouse gases of the order of 4.7 million tonnes. This is basically the context in which we are working to define the 7% first-generation biofuels.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic038x.u28	Mr President, I now end with international funding. Mrs Daems, you know very well that in Parliament there is a discussion between the political groups and that half of Parliament considers that international financing can overlap with development cooperation, the other half saying the opposite. Parliament must find a majority. I can't say anything. We're in business today. The Prime Minister has given the leadership. We know the old debate "for or against development cooperation". I can tell you that in this area, a great deal is being done in the interest of combating climate change. I do not see why – this is my point of view – this aspect of things should be neglected. This is part of a whole and this is Belgium's contribution to the global fight against global warming. Separating the two doesn't seem appropriate to me except to say that we want even more. We can hear that, but it must be practical and in our possibilities. That is what is important to remember. I will forward your requests for clarification of the reports to the National Climate Commission. I remind you, however, that if I hadn't asked, you would still be looking for any report on the site since there were none before. I'm the one who asked to publish them. It's not ideal yet, but it's already better than before.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic038x.u29	Madam Minister, last week this subject was discussed during Question Time in plenary. The Gas and Electricity Fund, which has been frozen through a KB since 2012, contains operating resources for OCMWs to help people in difficulty manage their energy consumption and pay their invoices. I am particularly interested in the funding base of this fund. You left an opening. I can say that FEBEG is in favour of refinancing outside the energy bill. Now the fund is partly financed by a federal contribution to the energy account redistributed by the CREG to a number of funds. However, the question is whether this method of financing should be maintained. After all, there is a great sensitivity to increase the electricity bill even further, however minimal that would happen through the federal contributions. Let us also remember that the energy bill today is already half a tax bill with taxes, taxes, various contributions and VAT. The Platform Against Energy Poverty suggested the possibility to work with an intervention of the FPS Economy, as is already happening for the Social Fuel Oil Fund. I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic038x.u30	Madam Minister, my question is indeed on the same subject. I would like to reply to my colleague that in 2017, 120,000 people have called on the fund. A lot of people are having a hard time paying their energy bill. The seriousness of the debate requires that we talk about it in a serious way and above all that we do not confuse things. There are two aspects to this dossier. There is, on the one hand, the aspect of indexation and, on the other hand, the aspect of additional financing. The OMCWs indicate that if they wish to carry out their mission properly, they do not have sufficient resources to do so. That's one aspect of the story. We can debate where this money is to be collected and whether it should go through the energy bill. No one has asked today, not even the Minister, as I heard last week, to do so via the electricity bill. The other aspect concerns the indexation of amounts. Each year, the amounts for different aspects of the federal contribution are laid down in a royal decree. No indexation has been allowed on this since 2012. Allow me to mention amounts. If this indexation were allowed, it would be EUR 0.15 per consumer per year for gas and EUR 0.36 per consumer per year for electricity. I think these are amounts that we can talk about. When it comes to solidarity between strong and weak shoulders, these are not amounts that can be covered. Madam Secretary, I will continue with what I have written in my question. It will be December, and that is when you come again with an amendment to the Royal Decrees of 24 March 2003 and 2 April 2014, respectively for electricity and for gas, concerning the modification of the federal contribution. Have you already provided the CREG with a draft royal decree for advice? Will you make the indexation possible again? Will you increase the contribution, at least to avoid indexation? With regard to a structural increase in the Fund's resources, are you in favour of an increase through general funds or an increase through the federal contribution?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic038x.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, I will start in French because I have already answered this question in plenary. The format of the plenary session does not allow us to take the time to answer real questions – without flattering you. While it is not in my competence, when I received this question, I wondered how to assess this need that the King Baudouin Foundation says it is largely underestimated – since poverty should be better treated and taken into account in our country – while the CPAS probably have requests to address to the minister in charge of social integration. So, who of the egg or the hen? Are we starting from the need as it is expressed to determine the amount of the fund? Or, on the contrary, should the fund be used in proportion to the needs, provided in a linear way? That is the real question to be asked about the organization needed to cover the question of poverty in that country. I agree with you that the increases on the citizen's bill are modest. They are not very high in terms of the federal contribution to this policy. But the accumulation of increases, even if the goal is very commendable, is perceived as problematic by the consumer. Electricity, which is liberalised, costs less, but transport, distribution and support for renewable energies are constantly increasing. In the end, the citizen perceives all this as, in a way, a second tax. That is the problem as it is. I am bound by a government agreement, which has chosen – until its end – not to index the federal contribution. I would like to point out that, in the regions, other costs are also increasing. With Kris Peeters, we frozen the Social Fund "Electricity", since it had to increase mechanically because of the increase in the cost of electricity. Should this be financed otherwise? Yes, the question can be asked. But I cannot answer that, because it must be the subject of a budgetary debate. Does the Fund have enough money to support all needs? I can't answer you either. As you said, Mrs Van der Straeten, I do not know certain things, because they are linked to other policies such as social integration. That is why last week, I believe, Parliament asked Minister Ducrame about the importance of the needs in this area and how they should be financed. I have also explained to you that the previous government, which Mr. Di Rupo was responsible for, decided on the same policy. A fund is not flexible. At some point, it contains too much money. And sometimes you don't use all of it. It is therefore appropriate to order from CREG – and I can handle it – a study of its operation. In this way, I will be able to answer you more precisely at our next meeting. In my view, a fund must always balance spending as much as possible. If you have too much money, that you don't spend, you're housing amounts that aren't worth anything – even though needs exist. If you don't have enough, it's because the fund is poorly calibrated. In short, is this the best formula? It's kind of weird to answer your questions with other questions. In any case, it is likely that the Royal Decree has already been transmitted and that it will soon be confirmed by Parliament's sanction. It is in this context that I replied in plenary that the decision would belong to you. I am open to this discussion. However, I would like to order an in-depth study of this issue, of which I know only the purely financial aspects. Indeed, it is the CREG that manages this fund and this body falls within my competence. I'm sorry I couldn't answer you in Dutch, but I had nothing to answer in that language. Having said that, I see you've listened well.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic038x.u32	First of all, I would like to say to Mrs van der Straeten that I find it a little sad that she is so pissed off and accuses me of simply asking a question. However, the Minister's reply shows that there is indeed a link with the federal contribution and the electricity bill. By the way, that was also the tone of her reaction in the press. You'll get to know me, I'll just respond to what ministers in the press say. If there is funding through part of the federal energy contribution, which is further redistributed by the CREG, there is a band. If one did not index in 2012, with the motivation that the energy bill should not increase further, that is a historical fact. One may regret that, but it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic038x.u33	Madam Secretary, I absolutely agree with the analysis. There is an emergency, which is backed up by a fund, which, as it was decided at the time, is suffocated through the federal contribution. Meanwhile, four to five funds receive funding from the federal contribution. The operation of the funds has been the subject of debate since the existence of these funds, and that has been the subject of debate for some time. Several CREG management committees questioned the under-utilisation or over-utilisation of these funds at different times. I am certainly asking you to look together with the CREG at the financial aspects that are important in this respect, and at the functioning of these funds. More fundamentally, the question is whether we should make arrangements through a fund. An answer to this is not necessarily within your competence; it is more a general question of how we can respond to what needs. There are two aspects to the problem here. We can indeed ask the CREG, which is under our control, about the efficiency of the funds. Not long ago, there was also an investigation by Sia Partners, and I think PWC has also investigated that. Whatever arrangement, it must always be respectful of the energy bill. I've never wanted to insinuate that there's no connection to the energy bill. I did just say that we need to talk about the right things. If today the King Baudouin Foundation or the OCMWs say that they need 30 million euros, they do not ask that money comes through the energy bill. That goes back to the first thing you said, Madam Minister: there is a need and how will we finance it. My question is, what's stopping us? That seems to be the coalition agreement, but it is a government which today has no majority and decided not to index. I should like to point out that everything in our country is indexed. Wages are indexed, electricity prices, commodity prices are indexed. However, the fund for people using the OMCW should not be indexed. If we index today, we are talking about EUR 0.15 per year for electricity and EUR 0.36 for gas per consumer per year. That's not even a small increase on a small increase. If we look at what is expected for the 2020 indexation, we are talking about much smaller amounts, because we would now be walking in for a little bit. You have left the opening, Madam Secretary. Our law stipulates that a KB that sets the rates for the federal contribution can only have effect if it is ratified within 12 months. We shall therefore have to come to Parliament with the question of the ratification of that Royal Decree. This cannot be confirmed if there is a majority in Parliament which wants to allow indexation; Parliament is not bound by a government agreement. Parliament is not even bound by a government's ruling agreement in current cases. If there is a majority in Parliament to allow indexation, a majority which considers EUR 0.15 and EUR 0.36 not to be an additional euro per consumer per year to be acceptable, we can perfectly decide not to ratify the Royal Decree. As a result, the indexation for 2019 is again possible. I think that last week the Minister agreed in plenary that it is indeed up to Parliament to decide whether it is social or not, whether it is solidarity with people who cannot pay their bills. This is without prejudice to the very fundamental comments. That is also without prejudice to the fact that the energy bill is today a tax bill. I agree. We can't solve that right now. What we can do is to meet immediate needs which do exist in practice. To know how big it is, more quality research is needed. If the OMCWs say today that they can't help those people, then there is that need. We can do something about this in a limited way. I am curious to see how social we will be at the moment when we will be asked here whether or not to ratify the Royal Decree.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic038x.u34	Debates of the European Parliament 55001079C by Mrs Kattrin Jadin will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic038x.u35	Madam Minister, at the moment the transmission system operators are conducting an investigation into reclassifying the bidding zones as part of the so-called bidding zone review. This follows from Regulation (EC) No 2019/943. Among other things, the Netherlands has a proposal to rearrange the bidding zones. The Netherlands wants to split them into three zones. Austria wishes to reunite the recently split zone of Germany-Austria, and Germany is proposing a further division of the current German zone. I can imagine that the loop flows, which we have talked about very often and which are the result of congestion in the bidding zone in Germany, could be reduced if Germany's proposal were to succeed. That is why I believe that we have a clear interest in this. However, Elia has indicated that it sees no advantages in splitting up its own zone and that a merger with another zone goes against the tendency to reduce the bidding zones. Elia also points out that we do not have congestion and therefore do not need to split up. We know from the CREG's annual report that there is indeed congestion on underlying grid elements, both in Germany and with us. The question then arises as to how far the CREG has already expressed its opinion on the reshuffling of the zones and on the assessment of Elia. Madam Secretary, to what extent are your services involved in the reclassification proposals? Has the CREG delivered an opinion on the bathing areas? What positive or negative effects can be expected from the three proposals currently on the table? I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic038x.u36	Mr President, Mr Wollants, one of the objectives of the regulation is to ensure a functioning internal energy market. In addition to the rules on market integration, the Regulation therefore lays down an obligation to make available 70% of capacity on network elements with a cross-border impact for trade flows. If a Member State is unable to guarantee that 70%, the Regulation provides for a number of options. Firstly, if there is structural congestion within a biding zone, a revision of the biding zone is proposed as a preferred solution. This approach provides the right investment signals to both market participants and network operators. It is this approach that is currently being studied by the Netherlands. A second solution, if there is structural congestion, is the implementation of an action plan. The plan should include measures to increase the available capacity in a linear manner to reach 70% by the end of 2025. Germany is committed to this approach. A third solution consists of applying for a temporary derogation for a period of one or two years. This approach should provide relief for those Member States which currently fail to reach 70%, either because they suffer from loop flows from neighbouring bidding zones or because they have to implement targeted network enhancements in the context of the energy transition, which will temporarily prevent them from guaranteeing 70%. That third approach applies to Belgium. My administration discussed this approach with Elia and the CREG during the summer months. The proposal was also examined by the market players within the Elia Users' Group and the European Commission in the context of the Cross-Border Committee. There is a general consensus on applying for temporary exceptions that take account of the situation in our neighbouring countries, the implementation of the Action Plan in Germany and the impact of grid reinforcements, namely Ventilus. Thus, although there is already a consensus on the general approach, the exception should be further substantiated by Elia and approved by the CREG. In addition, the Regulation provides for coordination at regional level.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic038x.u37	Madam Secretary, I will, of course, deepen your answer even further. Depending on which direction the files are going with the bidding zones, the situation may get worse again for us. The growth of renewable energy in Germany and the fact that Germany has to move a lot of energy from the north to mainly industrial zones in the south is a major problem for the surrounding countries. On the eastern side, this has been solved differently, because that's where phase shifters were installed to keep the energy away. On our side, we are still in trouble today. When we come up with a system in which the Austrians can make it and they can reconnect those bidding zones, we are once again screwed up, because then our interconnection capacity will be eaten up again by another country, which, frankly, did not care very much about its neighbouring countries at the time it wanted to close down its nuclear power stations. The fact that the country has still not fully understood it is incomprehensible. That is why I think we should continue to push it in the right direction. I will, of course, continue to follow up this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic038x.u38	Madam Minister, we all know that since November 2018, no appointed Chairman of the Management Committee has been present at the Energy Watchdog CREG. CREG Director Koen Locquet, who was also former director of the Management Committee, has since been a temporary chairman. In fact, the new appointment procedure was never completed. A government in current cases is not competent to appoint a new President. However, we had to note that you invited the three remaining candidates to a meeting in your cabinet. You say that you want to speed up the appointment because the mandates of the other directors of the CREG are also in need of renewal. So I would like to hear from you what the outcome of those talks with a view to the appointment? In the meantime, was this linked back to the Council of Ministers? How do you explain the need for the new Management Committee to be appointed in current cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic038x.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, I will answer you in part in French because the answer in Dutch that has been prepared for me is not exactly the answer I have to give you. As part of the procedure imposed on me for the renewal of the executive position, i.e. the position which is above the organisation of the CREG, due to the premature departure of Mrs Fauconnier, I have followed all the steps of the procedure. I made a call for applications and said that this position was open, since Ms. Fauconnier was leaving prematurely. Candidates came forward. They underwent both written and oral tests. The Selor issued a report, declaring some suitable candidates and others not. The regulations allow me to compare suitable candidates in terms of their specific skills, relational skills and leadership abilities, in relation to the job description and competency profile of the position to be filled. I cannot declare them unfit, but I can compare, between the candidates declared fit by the Selor, the elements I have just mentioned to you. For the time being, the CREG is headed by Mr. Koen Locquet, who is the oldest of the three directors. According to the statutes, he plays the role of director ad interim. That's what I did. Indeed, in order to compare their specific skills, relational skills and leadership abilities, I wanted to close the case and complete the procedure. That's why I invited them to my office. There were two Dutch-speaking and one French-speaking. The interview was conducted with an external person specializing in human resources management. The interview was held each time in the speaker's language. So we did two interviews in Dutch and one in French. A report will be prepared by the human resources specialist who was with me and who also asked questions. When I have this report, I will make a complete dossier and I will forward a proposal to the Council of Ministers. In the legislation that I have to comply with, I have an obligation to transmit. That is why I have completed all the steps of the procedure to their end. The former President has not yet been removed from office. She left, but there was no formal resignation order. In the context of routine business, I find it difficult to make a nomination decision. I will discuss this matter in the Council of Ministers by making a proposal on the comparison that I have made of the merits of each candidate declared fit by the Selor, but I am not sure that, as things stand, the government can make a nomination decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic038x.u40	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. It is indeed your right to compare the three remaining Selor candidates. The government is currently in business. Are those candidates willing to wait? After all, it may be a while before there will be a new government. Madam Minister, the question is, of course, to what extent there is currently a need for a new appointment. As you state yourself, Koen Locquet is the man with the highest seniority in his capacity as director of the CREG. He could remain in office for the time being, until a new government has been appointed, after which the knot can be cut. You say that, as the procedure dictates, you will submit a proposal to the Council of Ministers. Only at that time you will be in a vacuum because the Council of Ministers will not be able to take a decision on the proposal. In particular, the three candidates will have to wait for the next few months for the time being and the procedure will end.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic038x.u41	Mr President, Madam Minister, although the government previously decided to take the key step, even though the Flemish Government, through Zuhal Demir, is in favour of extending the deadline for the core exit, we note that France is currently working in silence on a plan to build six new nuclear reactors in the next decade. France would continue to rely on nuclear energy for 50% of its energy production in the future. Madam Minister, in the context of security of supply in the future, it seems appropriate to order an objective study to identify the possibilities for the construction of thorium plants, with all its advantages and disadvantages. Thorium plants do not produce CO2, hardly nuclear waste, and they could perfectly meet the climate objectives. A study that identifies all the advantages and disadvantages can only influence a decision positively afterwards. It is also a technology which cannot be compared to conventional uranium power stations. I therefore think that such a study would be worthwhile.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic038x.u42	Mr President, Mr Van Lommel, first of all I should like to remind you that the thorium reactors operate in accordance with the principle of nuclear fission, such as our current uranium power stations. Article 3 of the Act of 31 January 2003 on the gradual exit from nuclear energy for industrial electricity production provides that "no new nuclear power plant intended for industrial electricity production by fission of nuclear fuels can be set up and/or put into operation'. Whether it is thorium, uranium or plutonium, it is nuclear power plants that operate on the basis of fission of nuclear materials and therefore fall under the phase-out law. In order to enable the development, construction and commissioning of thorium nuclear power plants in Belgium, it is up to you, Members of Parliament, to find a majority to amend or repeal this law of 31 January 2003, taking into account, for example, the lack of direct CO2 emissions and the disadvantages. Thorium used as a nuclear fuel has the greatest advantage of producing much less high-level radioactive waste with a long lifespan. Theoretically, thorium could be charged in all types of nuclear reactors, including in current nuclear power plants. In the form of Thorium MOX, a mixture of thorium and plutonium or of uranium and thorium oxide, thorium could be charged in the current reactors of nuclear power stations, of course after all safety studies, obtaining the necessary permits and after technical adjustments to infrastructure and logistics. When used in a highly innovative type of nuclear reactor, where the fuel occurs in the form of molten salts, thorium offers the greatest advantage. However, according to the specialists, such a reactor would require a development period of at least 40 years. Moreover, the deployment of this technology would require the industrial development of a new fuel cycle. There is no real economic justification for the operator of nuclear power plants to switch from a uranium cycle to a thorium cycle. In Belgium the SCK/CEN has been carrying out technological surveillance for many years, it has already written many scientific articles on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic038x.u43	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I see you're going through a little bit. You say it's also about a split. That's right, but you can't compare that. The amount of waste produced in thorium plants is very limited compared to what we now know. Moreover, the degradation of high-level radioactive waste takes many thousands of years. In this case, it would take several hundred years and a very limited amount of waste. Furthermore, the dangers of thorium plants are not comparable to the current ones. You say that it is possible to implement this in the current plants. I would just like to point out that we were once pioneers in the production of energy through nuclear reactors in Belgium. It is regrettable that this has disappeared into the background, especially because we believe in the possibilities it offers us. Especially when we look at the future supply of energy, this is essential. You refer to the law of 31 January 2003 which should be amended if we want to move to thorium plants. My question was to order a non-binding study on the feasibility of thorium plants with all its advantages and disadvantages. I do not think it is necessary to amend the law of 31 January 2003 to order that study. That is why I would ask you to reconsider your opinion and to examine that possibility properly and, above all, not to compare it with the current nuclear reactors, because that comparison, as you have just made, does not go far enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic038x.u44	I listened to your reply with great attention. I think there are limits. I don't want to convince you because I would have to be an engineer to discuss it with you. I don't know, by the way, what your training is. Objectively, when you find that there is no economic justification for the operators of nuclear power plants to switch to thorium, they have already done all the necessary studies in this area. SCK/CEN has also conducted studies. So I do not see the a priori interest in doing a new study to agree that the development of such plants would take forty years to achieve this. Of course, we can regret the past. But we can't change anything! I am not convinced when I make a cost/benefit assessment of this technology, but that's not why I don't want to do it. Probably, given all the existing studies, I do not see myself in a position to convince, for example, my administration to launch a public procurement to carry out this type of study. The truth is there.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic038x.u45	Mr President, Minister, earlier this year, if I am not mistaken in April, the Minister indicated that the ENOVER Working Party on Hydrogen will support hydrogen development in three ways. First and foremost, there is the coordination of Belgian policy and a position on hydrogen. This will, of course, take account of the fragmented powers in Belgium. In addition, there is the follow-up of hydrogen developments within the four entities and the exchange of information and best practices in this area. Finally, foreign developments will also be monitored. You then cited the Colruyt and Fluxys projects as examples of green hydrogen production. That project would use electricity from offshore windmills. This project is beginning to take shape and in the coming weeks the project owners will decide whether to invest EUR 25 million in the project. Such projects are an important starting point in the transition from fossil to green fuels in traffic. I just heard you say that we still have a long way to go in the field of hydrogen. I am hopeful that such projects are currently in the pipeline. I note today, Madam Minister, that both car manufacturers and fuel distributors are looking in each other's direction, although they could shift both. I have the following questions. What are the current results of the ENOVER Working Party on Hydrogen? How can these be translated into the next steps at the different policy levels? Even a government in current affairs should be able to look at what is possible in the future. How can the construction of hydrogen plants and the roll-out of hydrogen in general be further supported by federal governments? Finally, what concrete actions have you taken to ensure that hydrogen is available on the market as a CO2-free fuel?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic038x.u46	Mr President, Mr Van Lommel, I already answered Mr Wollants and Mr Ravyts' questions on the same subject in this committee on 18 September 2019. Question No 24, by Mr De Vries (H-l 55000189C and 55000213C. However, I will also answer your question. In Belgium, both the regions and the federal level have powers in the field of hydrogen. Consultation and exchange of information between the entities concerned is necessary. As you said, an ENOVER Working Group on Hydrogen and Energy Storage was set up as early as June 2018, on the proposal of the General Energy Directorate of the FPS Economy, in which the federal and regional departments concerned are represented. This ENOVER working group supports the development of hydrogen, including through coordination of Belgian policy and a hydrogen positioning; the monitoring of developments within the four entities and exchange of information, studies and best practices; the monitoring of foreign developments in the Benelux, pentalateral, European and international; and the identification of cooperation opportunities. This working group drew up a first inter-federal reflection document on hydrogen in 2019. The reflection document focuses on the main opportunities of hydrogen, such as the possible role of green hydrogen in the transition and decarbonisation of the Belgian energy and transport system, as well as our industry. Hydrogen can also contribute to achieving our energy and climate objectives and to improving our air quality. Some key sector stakeholders were also consulted on this issue. At present, in consultation with the regional entities and the sector concerned, it is being examined how future hydrogen policy in Belgium can be developed in a coordinated manner. The work of the ENOVER Working Group also showed that there were legal and technical uncertainties about the division of competences between the federal and regional levels of hydrogen and renewable gas. A legal analysis is currently being carried out at federal level to further clarify this. This legal analysis will form the basis for further reflection in the Energy Directorate-General on the role that hydrogen can play in the energy transition. Within the framework of the Energy Transition Fund, the Energy Management Board organises an annual call for project proposals on energy transition. The Energy Transition Fund is already supporting some concrete hydrogen projects, including the Fluxys and Colruyt Hyoffwind project to which you referred. This project aims at a feasibility study for the production of green hydrogen, using the electricity from the offshore windmills and the possibility to inject this hydrogen into the natural gas network. As the project is still under way, I cannot comment on the results at the moment. At international level, too, there is a great deal of interest in the possible role of hydrogen in the energy transition. At present there are many discussions at Benelux, Penta and European level, not only at government level, but also with TSOs, DSOs, regulators and market players. It is also expected that the announced Green Deal of the newly appointed European Commission, the planned European Gas Package and the related proposals on greening the natural gas sector will steer the future debate and policy on hydrogen. My administration has recently organised a national round table within the framework of ENOVER to collect the input of stakeholders as material for Belgian policy. In 2019, the following hydrogen targets were also highlighted in the Benelux Annual Plan. These were the identification of possible and meaningful fields of work within the Benelux in the field of green hydrogen; the identification and technical state of play in relation to the transmission and distribution networks of natural gas and the exploration of the possibilities of injecting hydrogen into that network; the exploration of possibilities to facilitate the harmonisation of safety standards for emergency services, the training of technicians and consumer awareness. Finally, at present both the regulator and the distribution and transmission system operators, each from their point of view, are working on a Penta-level report on the common design principles for the future hydrogen market. Those reports will also serve to prepare the negotiations on the future gas package. As regards the use of hydrogen as a transport fuel, a Royal Decree on the name and characteristics of the alternative fuel was adopted on 13 April 2019. In addition, agreements were made at European level on the labelling of this fuel. This took the necessary steps at federal level to allow further deployment of this technology. That is the state of play on hydrogen. It is, of course, up to the next government to take the right measures to ensure a sustainable and affordable energy supply.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-22-55-commissie-ic038x.u47	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. I understand that you now want to see how this can be coordinated, but also that a legal analysis must be carried out at the federal level. However, we note that there are projects such as the Colruyt project. We have every interest in ensuring that this technology can be implemented as soon as possible. Our country must be a pioneer in the whole thing if necessary. I see initiatives by colleagues in this House on the taxation of commercial vehicles and the like, but there must of course be alternatives. Let us be. The whole electrification of traffic will be just an intermediate step. We both know she's not the real future. The other alternatives, such as hydrogen, will be crucial in this respect. Madam Minister, that is why I asked for the alternatives to be developed as soon as possible and to see where the federal government can step up its efforts to support such hydrogen plants wherever possible. I also understand, of course, that you point out that it will be up to the next government to take the necessary initiatives in this area. However, that will certainly be necessary. We can talk about climate plans and energy plans here, but the development of hydrogen is an important key to the future.
