ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u1	Minister, welcome to our meeting, which we convened yesterday. Ladies and gentlemen, there are two exchanges of views on the agenda. I propose that we organise them as topical debates, with an introduction and then we use the order of questions tabled, with each speaker intervening briefly. According to the Rules of Procedure, that means a two-minute speaking time. I will not keep the clock exactly, but I suggest that everyone intervenes as succinctly as possible. The Minister will then be given the floor and, of course, Parliament will have the last word in the form of a reply. There are two topical debates on the agenda. Online was the debate on Kleine-Brogel first and then the debate on the deployment of Belgian ground forces in Syria. However, an exact reading teaches us that the first question that was put was Mr De Roover's question about the deployment of Belgian ground forces in Syria. If we want to act correctly, then we will have the debate on this subject first and then the debate on Kleine-Brogel.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u2	After the questions, each group will have the opportunity to take the floor before the Minister answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your presence in the House of Democracy. The matter on which I would like to ask you a few questions should not be postponed until September. That's why I asked yesterday to see you again this week. The problem of the United States' military presence in Syriac Kurdistan is well known: the Trump administration plant to withdraw completely or partially. Since January, they have been calling on NATO allies to support what is called a stabilisation mission to prevent a resurrection of IS or Daesh in the region. The word is not used, but Washington is, of course, aiming for a kind of buffer zone with the Kurdish region in northern Syria and Turkey. In a first round, the seven allies that are already part of the campaign against IS were consulted. At a later stage, 14 other countries were consulted, especially Eastern European countries. As far as we know, its success was moderate. In addition to the generic request, the Netherlands, Germany and Denmark have also received a specific demand from the United States for boots on the ground. The Dutch and German governments rejected this question after some reflection. France and the United Kingdom would make minimal reinforcement of their troops already operating in the region. A few Baltic countries and Balkan countries would follow. The possible deployment of Belgian troops on the ground in a clearly unstable area should not be too easy for us. So, Minister, I have a few specific questions. Our neighbouring countries have felt obliged to interpret the generic demand of the Americans as a request. So far we have not heard anything about this, but has, first of all, the outgoing government received a similar request? Did the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Pompeo, write to you a letter asking whether Belgium can provide troops in the area I was talking about, or did he write you a letter that could be interpreted in that sense? Secondly, what position did you defend in the NATO meetings and in the meetings with the US representatives regarding the establishment of a security mechanism for Northern Syria? Thirdly, was the demand for military or civil participation ever discussed with the surrounding countries or the allies in the fight against ISIS? Fourthly, was participation of a military or civil nature ever discussed in the resigning government or the government in ongoing cases? If your government is considering participation, on the basis of what international mandate would the country participate in such a mission? On the basis of what democratic mandate could your government allocate people and resources to such a mission? What role do you think Parliament can play in dealing with this?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u4	Mr President, Minister, thank you for taking the time to answer our questions. I do not know whether a request has been made by the United States to Belgium – you will inform us in a few moments – but it is true that if that is the case, it is useful for a debate to be conducted in Parliament. I was able to go to the field and was struck by the absence of Europe in the north-east of Syria. Even though these fighters have fought for the liberation of these territories occupied by the Islamic State and have lost thousands of men, Europe is totally absent, whether in terms of security, apart from certain contingents from certain Member States, in humanitarian terms or in terms of resolving the question of European detainees, particularly Belgians, in this region. This is an opportunity to ask if there is finally a European strategy for this very important region. Today it is under pressure from the Damascus regime, from the very active cells of the Islamic State and from Turkey, which has already invaded the enclave of Afrin and which has not hidden its will to go further in the invasion and occupation of part of Syrian Kurdish territory. Have the United States applied? What is the Belgian strategy and that of Europe in terms of security, in terms of humanitarian aid, in terms of the reconstruction of certain cities – I was in Rakka, which is totally destroyed – and concerning the European and Belgian detainees on the spot? These issues are related to the security issue, but they are important.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u5	Mr President, Minister, a denial on the subject was made yesterday. Nevertheless, the newspaper De Morgen said yesterday that several European countries would have received a request from the United States to send troops to Syria and more specifically to the North-East, an area from which the United States would like to withdraw in the long term. The denial concerns a request made to Belgium. Minister, in view of this information, I would like to ask you the following questions. Officially, has Belgium received an application?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u6	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u7	Was there an informal request from the United States to send military personnel to northeastern Syria? If so, what was the government's response in day-to-day business? Was this subject discussed at the European Council, since several Member States would have been discussed?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u8	Mr President, Minister, the situation has already been outlined. There are rumors of a United States request to deploy troops in Syria. We know that the United States intends to withdraw from Syria. This is also the reason why they were asked to allow families of IS fighters to return from the camps. In this way, the revival of IS in the region can also be achieved. My question is very simple. Has the government received a question from the United States or another partner to put boots on the ground? If so, what will the government answer? I would also like to point out to the committee that we are already helping in Iraq to train Iraqi soldiers. Would it be a similar mission or would it be a more active engagement? I look forward to your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u9	Mr President, Minister, thank you for being here. Yesterday we stressed very strongly the importance of this dossier because it is strange that we still have to rely on rumours. We have still not been clear on this. In addition, it should also be pointed out that this could set a precedent. In the past, it has been claimed that the ADIV has participated in a secret mission. This has never been confirmed by the then Secretary of Defense. That shadowiness and lack of clarity are unacceptable. That is why we have stressed that we wanted to have a transparent, democratic debate on this issue. It is only natural that there should be clear answers to the questions asked, and I expect this. In addition to the questions already asked on a formal or non-formal question and the answer given by the government, I would like to ask another question. Of course, it is not the first time President Trump has made strange statements. He has announced, among other things, that he will release the European jihadists. In his view, the European countries should draw their own conclusions. From a security point of view, such a statement is, of course, aberrant, but it once again raises the question of how to deal with it. How do we deal with this situation? What about the uncertainty created by the United States? I also remember that it was announced that some kind of international tribunal would be set up to try those jihadists. In any case, this would prevent them from being released and thus create an additional security risk. How are we doing with that, Minister? What's our country gonna do? Other European countries have said that they will at least bring those people back themselves to prevent them from being released. I'd like to know what's going on. Any progress? After all, the last thing we can achieve is uncertainty as to whether the jihadists in the region remain trapped and adequately guarded. Finally, evidence must also be collected in order to be able to bring them to justice. After all, the clock is ticking and impunity for that group would be the worst possible scenario.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u10	Minister, the reason why we are here today is that there is once again a lack of communication with the citizens or with us. If we take such articles out of the newspapers again, it is clear that it cannot go on like this. There are a number of elements that make us very worried. At the end of June, a senior officer of the US Department of Foreign Affairs urged the Belgian Government to repatriate its own IS fighters and their families from the detention camps in Syria as soon as possible, which raises the question as to whether this incentive was appropriate in the context of the demand that is now being made. The United States would have demanded that European countries repatriate their Syrian fighters, or themselves vouch for their security in Syria, and provide military support for that. You are aware, Minister, that we would like an answer to these questions. Was that demand made by the U.S. Department of Foreign Affairs? If so, why didn't the government communicate about this? On what international legal grounds does the United States raise this question? Is it an option for you, in any way, to deploy troops?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u11	Thank you very much, Minister, for being here. It is a special and precarious situation. We have a government in current affairs with, unlike other periods in current cases, a minimum majority. In principle, the power lies with Parliament. We have often debated here the constitutional article which states that the government'states war'. There has already been a debate on whether Parliament should not be involved proactively before that happens. An important political line is the distinction between air operations, on the one hand, and boots on the ground, on the other. That's enough dust to ask you for explanations. How do we see this situation in the light of the government in current cases? How are we facing boots on the ground? What is the legal framework within which we can operate there? I would like some clarification on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u12	Minister, do we want to do such operations in the country of spoils? Everyone asks that question. I suppose that will be the subject of the debate later. However, I also have a practical question. You yourself came out in the news today with the announcement that there is a staff emptiness in the army: 40% of the military would retire in the next five years. I am not necessarily looking at the military staff present here today, but the question is whether we will be able to participate in such operations in the future, in view of the human resources problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u13	That last theme is another debate. We need to keep it a little aligned. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u14	Mr President, I would first like to confirm to Mr Lacroix that the denial that has been circulated concerns the possible request for the Strait of Ormuz. We have not received a request in this regard. With regard to the presence of Belgian troops on the ground in Syria, I would like to point out that the government, as well as the Parliament – unanimously – wanted no such troops. We conducted other operations but without Belgian troops on the ground. I understand that it is urgent to come back and confirm what you yourself wanted, unless the position has changed! I have heard hesitations about northeastern Syria, and some groups may now wish to send troops to the ground. I recall that the government and Parliament have repeatedly confirmed the desire not to send troops to Syria. For the rest, Belgium did receive a letter dated 23 May 2019 from the Secretary of State for Defense of the United States, Mr. Patrick M. Shanahan, in which we are asked to consider making additional contributions in the context of the fight against the Islamic State. There was an explicit demand for ground troops, for aircraft to be deployed for reconnaissance flights and kinetic missions, for the deployment of an airfield management capacity and, finally, for medical personnel. It was replied that the question had to be analysed within the Defence Staff and that any contribution had to be politically approved with the same limits as in the past, i.e. without ground troops in Syria. That has always been the case. I am open to a debate at the request of some groups who may now wish to use ground forces. Since the establishment of the Global Coalition to Defeat ISIS, of which it is part, Belgium has been active on the ground, initially with an F-16 detachment, which was subsequently supplemented by ground forces to train, assist and advise the Iraqi military, as well as with a construction detachment. Currently, several staff officers and technical specialists participate in the military campaign against ISIS, mainly from Iraq and Kuwait. All mentioned contributions to the fight against IS are known to the other coalition members. In addition to the contributions already approved by the Council of Ministers, namely in the framework of the operational commitment for 2019, no additional commitment has been discussed within the government. Before the elections, we had the opportunity to present the operations at another specific committee meeting. The questions on the mandate are part of the opportunity analysis currently being carried out by the Defence Staff. I therefore confirm that we conducted operations with our F-16s over Iraq, and then over Syria, and operations with Iraqi troops in Iraq. We then informed Parliament, in accordance with the Constitution. These operations did not involve ground troops in Syria. We do not intend to change our attitude, at least as far as the government is concerned. Mr Dallemagne, in this context, I can confirm that the European position on reconstruction has always been the same. We are working on reconstruction in Iraq, and Belgium is taking part. As far as Syria is concerned, there is a demand that political solutions be advanced before reconstruction operations are envisaged. This does not prevent the delivery of humanitarian aid, which is obviously something else. As far as the European Union's position is concerned, I can re-develop it, but above all I can refer to the conclusions reached on several occasions by the Foreign Affairs Council. There is indeed a concerted strategy within the coalition, in which many European Union countries are involved, covering the whole region. I would like to return to a humanitarian aspect. Although there have already been others leaving the region, we have carried out a specific first operation to bring six orphans from the camps to Belgium. This requires the permission of Kurdish officials, to work with diplomats sent to the site - which we have done - and to set up logistics with the Defence. I would point out that, so far, the government has chosen to work on the return to Belgium of children under ten years of age identified as Belgian, and to work on a case-by-case basis beyond that age. I am quite open to a debate with Parliament on the possibility of going much further in the area of return. We have begun these return policies. Are there any demands to imagine the return, not only of children, but also of their mothers and even combatants? It is always useful to hear the views of the various groups on the subject. I recall the position the government has taken so far, but I do not know whether there is a request to go further and bring back, in particular, the Belgian fighters who have visited the country. For now, the government's position is to try to get judgment in the region. It is true that we are working with a number of partners on an international tribunal or, according to other proposals, at a national tribunal in Iraq, with a number of additional advisers from the international community. We are working on this with a number of European partners and also in the circles of the Security Council. You know that Belgium has been a non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council since the beginning of this year. We are looking for a solution, but at the moment there is no international tribunal, or a national tribunal, as it has been established in other countries in the past, for example in Cambodia or Sierra Leone, with additional advisers from the international community. I also heard the idea that we should intervene more strongly in north-eastern Syria. I repeat that I am open to a debate that we may have in Parliament. However, I can hardly imagine a presence of Belgian soldiers in the north-east of Syria, after hearing the debates we held some time ago on whether or not Belgian soldiers were present in Syria. At some point, you have to be able to make choices. What do we want? Since I was asked to come urgently, I thought there might be an evolution in the position of some groups. However, I have not heard an explicit request to send troops to the north-east of Syria. But, since I have to come urgently, I assume that there is a new element in the debate. I didn't really hear it, but it may have escaped me.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u15	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, which is remarkable in that you confirm that on 23 May the United States asked a formal question about the deployment of Belgian ground forces. On 21 June, the Dutch Government communicated publicly on this matter. Today is July 18th, so almost two months later than May 23rd. It is only after lengthy pressure that you give Parliament openness in this respect. I'm afraid I'm gonna regret that. It would have been a good thing if you had brought openness to the use in other countries, because it is no small matter when the United States asks us that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u16	Mr President, this has been discussed in another committee, namely the committee responsible for monitoring foreign missions. But there are only a few Members there. In addition, I confirm that the answer has always been "no'. I am therefore entitled to communicate on this, even though it has been clear since the first debate in the Chamber that we do not want to send ground troops. So we can say that there is or is not a new question from some partner in the coalition, but so far we have always given the exact same answer as regards the ground forces, unless there are questions in that sense from different groups in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u17	Minister, I would like to point out that the most recent meeting of the committee responsible for the follow-up of foreign missions was held before 23 May.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u18	So you reaffirm that after 23 May there was no communication from the government, although this is an explicit and heavy-weight demand from the United States. The openness that exists in neighbouring countries deserves to be followed. Moreover, from your answer, I think I can implicitly conclude that that question was formally put by the United States on 23 May and that it had not happened before. It would be nice to check whether there is any evolution in Parliament's position, but that is not evident, for the sake of clarity. Finding an international legal framework to deal with this is not self-evident. I certainly agree with you on this, but there is, of course, evolution on the ground. That's unmistakable. In recent months, there have been important explanations. Let us be honest, in the past our position that everything had to be done in an international context and covered internationally was partly inspired by the certainty that the United States would do the job for us. We were able to stick to our principles and the work would be done by the United States. In that respect, it was a bit parasitic on the guarantees that came from the other side of the ocean. Now it appears that we cannot be too sure that these guarantees will keep us in our comfort zone for a long time to come. I believe that a debate on this is of the utmost importance. I would also like to point out that there are strong indications that Europe does not respond with one voice and that there are clearly different approaches to this. Here too, the position of our country must be the subject of a parliamentary debate and the extent to which Europe is not being played apart. This will never strengthen Europe's ability to act. Mr President, I think it is a useful meeting of the committee because we have received here a formal confirmation of what was a strong suspicion. I can assume that we will return to this after the recess, because the deployment of Belgian ground forces is no small matter. That is why Parliament, especially in today's political context, should be given ample opportunity to debate this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u19	Mr Minister, you are telling us that there has been a discussion on this subject at a meeting of the committee responsible for monitoring missions abroad, but the chairman of the committee tells us that there has been no meeting since 23 May.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u20	I wasn't the chairman of that committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u21	I confirm that we have referred in the committee responsible for monitoring missions abroad to the existence of American requests on this subject. These were confirmed in writing for the first time on 23 May. Don't get me wrong: we've been asked from the beginning, within the coalition, if we're ready to send troops to the ground. Each time, we responded negatively. When the problem is raised within the coalition, of course it can be discussed in the House, but the answer will always be "no". I therefore confirm that in the committee responsible for monitoring missions abroad, information has been provided on repeated requests from the United States, which have been confirmed by a letter of 23 May. However, this does not change the starting position that the government and the House have adopted, which is not to send troops to Syria. Whatever the requests made, we will not vary positions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u22	Minister, I would like to continue my presentation. I am very surprised that a meeting was held to discuss a non-existent request. I would just like to remind you of your last comments: this is not just about sending troops to the ground, but about sending planes, kinetic missions and medical personnel. It is therefore a much more general request, which deserves to be considered – regardless of the decision taken by the House at a time very different from the current one, you will agree. It was taken before President Trump took office – which in itself is a very important geopolitical factor. Secondly, the European Union is now being asked to participate in a stabilization force, not an intervention force, because the military context is completely different. We are not in a sense of reconquesting territories, but rather of stabilization and peace-building; hoping that the Islamic State will not strengthen itself in those regions. It is about participating in the reconstruction of cities that we have helped destroy for reasons that we know. I guess there was no alternative to destroying some of their neighborhoods. The emptiness that we leave there – whether in terms of security or reconstruction – is extremely deleterious. This is happening at the gates of Europe. It can therefore be understood that the Americans, and especially President Trump, consider this not to be their problem. Anyway, it's ours. Indeed, millions of people would like to return to those territories, but they cannot, because the security conditions are not fulfilled. And even if they were, it remains that these cities are destroyed and that it is impossible to live there. This emptiness we leave, others occupy it. I am thinking, for example, of Saudi Arabia and Iran, which has decided to inject considerable funds into these areas. Politically, it is a mistake to think that we will soon have the ideal political conditions to start rebuilding these regions. This is a major mistake because the situation is deteriorating again there because Europe, as often, does not take on its responsibilities, whether in political terms, in terms of reconstruction or in terms of security. I do not ask you to send Belgian soldiers on the spot tomorrow, but to have a serious discussion with our European partners. I regret that every European country is talking bilaterally with the Americans about their policy. We must have a concerted, ambitious European policy on this subject, which at last makes it possible to create the conditions for lasting peace there and which allows certain people wishing to return to their country to do so. Indeed, some populist parties are emerging because of the crisis in Syria, which has cost us so much politically in Europe. That's what we're asking you, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u23	Minister, thank you for the clarifications on this issue. The questions raised and the ensuing debate enabled all speakers to recall the principles that drive their political group. As you know, our group has always wished that any intervention, whatever it may be, should be based on firm principles, in particular by recalling the position defended during the previous parliamentary term in the parliamentary debates on intervention and the fight against Daesh. Our request is insistent: to revise Article 167 of the Constitution in order to establish better parliamentary control over operations abroad of the Belgian army. But in the meantime, for us, any intervention by military forces outside the territory should be subject to prior parliamentary approval, for example through the adoption of a resolution, as was the case with the intervention in Iraq. This requirement is really strong for us as the government is not only in day-to-day business but also lacks a majority in the assembly. Finally, it is crucial to include any Belgian military intervention in a strictly UN framework and in a comprehensive approach that combines intervention, development and diplomacy. I think you share that view. We believe that we should not be ashamed of that, on the contrary. Belgium must assume its share in international security, but not at any cost, and not at any cost. This military responsibility goes hand in hand with an even greater responsibility, of a diplomatic-political nature, aimed at doing everything possible to stabilize a region, including in the long term. I didn't say I was the only one to say it. Mr Minister, I will conclude by saying that the nature, geographical scope and international framework of a Belgian intervention must be clearly defined by the government, but also by our assembly. The security of our military is a priority. It's important. I wasn't there under the previous legislature. Reference was made to a commission to monitor missions abroad on 23 May. It would be urgent to take stock of the state of the matter at the next meeting of this committee at the beginning of the year, which would allow us to update all the information.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u24	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for the clear answers. I distinguish two points, on the one hand the content, on the other hand the format and the procedure. In substance, I am very pleased that the government continues its policy in current affairs: no boots on the ground in Syria. That's consistent. At the same time, we have seen for years that Belgium is a loyal partner in the fight against IS. That proves our participation in Operation Inherent Resolve. I would like to point out to the members of the committee that in current cases the government cannot decide to send troops abroad. That is a decision for Parliament. We did so at the beginning of the previous legislature. When there was no government, we decided to send planes to Jordan. That is the substance of the matter. The government has taken a consistent decision here, in line with the policy of the last four years. That decision could only be made by them, Mr De Roover, because that is the procedure. You say that the letter arrived on 23 May, but I would like to point out that there was no Parliament. That was three days before the election. The Chamber was disbanded somewhere in mid-April. So the government and the minister could not get back to Parliament, because there was no such thing. I would like to point out that we took our oath on 20 June and that the committees, including the Committee on Defence, were put together by the plenary last week. So the minister couldn't reconnect sooner, otherwise I'd have to be explained how. Today, in plenary session, it was decided to install the special committee responsible for the follow-up of foreign missions. Couldn't go any faster. I can only observe, Mr De Roover, that the N-VA is in a very large position: it opposes a government of which it was a member. I have just heard your colleague Loones say that there is actually no government anymore, but yesterday and today you are on the barricades to blame the Minister for everything. I think that is a very unbelievable position of you and your party.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u25	I call Mrs Kherbache. A brief interruption, Mr De Roover.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u26	Mr President, very briefly. I simply asked that we be informed. The committee does not even need to be formed. If we had not insisted, we would not have received the answers until 11 September. I therefore think that your statement is in addition to the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u27	I made the proposal myself yesterday, Mr De Roover, many Members can testify to that in order to sit together today. I don't think it's just your merit.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u28	There was a consensus on that in committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for your reply and for setting out the political framework on whether or not to send troops. It is good that you have reconfirmed this today, because, among other things, statements by N-VA have raised doubts about the state of play. It must be clear to us that it is very important that such missions fit into an international legal framework and that there is also parliamentary control. You did not answer two questions about the jihadists. I drew attention to the risk that rice will be at risk when the US withdraws and an answer will have to be given on the surveillance of European jihadists. We are now seeing different reactions in Europe. There are countries that bring them here to try and imprison them. There are questions about who's going to do that in the region. My question is whether any agreements have been made. This is not a broad discussion, it is very concrete and fundamental. There's going on in the field of everything. Unfortunately, we have a large group, a far too large group, Belgian jihadists. There is a need to clarify how we will deal with this, because this poses a major security risk. I also pointed out the importance of the evidence. It is a good thing that the Security Council is discussing a complex procedure, the creation of a tribunal. I said months ago, in a first reaction, that opting for an international tribunal is nice, but you also know that you referred to the previous tribunals that it took years before an international tribunal could be set up. What's happening in the meantime? Are these people going to be held captive? Are they going to be guarded? Is there going to be evidence gathering on the premises? Without that evidence, there is impunity. The great concern today is that we must not allow that to happen. So my questions are: quid the guard, and what about the evidence garage?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u30	Mr President, I would like to thank you for allowing us to convene this committee before the summer recess. The Minister does not seem to understand why we have convened this committee, because there would not have been much change. He also played the ball back to us and asked whether the groups might have changed their minds and still wanted to send ground troops. Now, I can reassure you, Minister, as you know, we are not in favour of the deployment of troops, certainly not without a clear mandate from the UN, just as we are against the deployment of combat aircraft. Mr. Secretary, why are you sitting here? You confirm that on 23 May, three days before the elections, you received a written request from the Secretary of Defense for ground troops and more aircraft. You seem to me to suggest that this has been requested orally several times and that you consider that to be quite normal. We think it is normal that that question could come. What we don't think is normal is that you don't communicate this to the people. That's the question! I have just heard our colleague from Open Vld suggest that you should not be accountable to Parliament because this government is in current affairs. No! But to the people! You say that Belgium's contributions to the fight against ISIS are known to the members of the military coalition, but, again, not to the citizens and to Parliament. We believe that this is a major democratic problem. The whole attitude of Michel I and Michel II towards defence is one of secrecy and lack of transparency. We have heard this today in this dossier, but also about the purchase of the F-35, for example. That dossier is not on the table here today, but I would like to point it out. We retain the impression that we are on the lead of the United States and that you do not think it is really any concern for the citizens. Now, we refuse to go along with Trump's games. I told you that yesterday. We refuse to walk on the lead of the United States.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for your answers. I think it's a good thing we got together now. This also shows the absurdity of the long parliamentary recess. Everyone is entitled to a family holiday of two or three weeks, but such discussions should actually take place in August from a certain point of view. If we need to come together on such important matters, I think we should do the same. Secondly, at the moment when the United States, under the leadership of Trump, becomes more isolationist at political level and protectionist at economic level, of course, a certain area is being opened up. Who's gonna fill it out? We can say that it is bad that they become isolationist and retreat and then just look at it and do nothing. However, we can also fill in that space in a responsible way. I am not arguing for boots on the ground at the moment, but the discussion on ground troops is proceeding in a different way. After all, there are two ways to deploy ground troops. One can use them in an aggressive way to invade a country, but one can also decide in this context, for example, to monitor IS prisoners on the ground. An aggressive commitment could also be training opposition forces on the ground. All this falls into the category of aggressive commitment. However, there is also a humanitarian way to deploy ground troops. For example, we could decide to secure refugee camps or to pick up injured people there. One can say that one does not want boots on the ground, but if someone is dying and one has a medical component, should one leave that person because one cannot get on the ground? Do we think that's okay or morally superior to what we're doing now? We could also guard an airport, secure food supplies or even de-mining certain places. These are all boots on the ground but they have a very clear humanitarian component. As the debate continues and the United States becomes more protective in terms of its trade policy and isolates itself in terms of their general foreign policy, space will be opened up. The question then is what Europe and Belgium are going to do. Shall we say that we have no moral link with these countries? Why don't you go blackbox and fuck up? Or will we say that we must take responsibility there? Then the question for this committee is how far that responsibility goes, what is reasonable, what is clear, or what we can do at some point. I therefore welcome these discussions, which will be very rich and interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u32	Minister, I have waited for your answer before responding. You say the defense staff is studying the United States' question. I would urge you to do so in very close involvement with Parliament. This government has no majority. The region is also a wasp nest. Green and Ecolo believe that extreme caution is needed before we take any military step. We really want to emphasise that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u33	Mr President, I would like to reply to the question on foreign terrorist fighters. Maybe there are some in the prisons in Iraq, guarded by the Iraqi security service, military or police. In Syria there are camps, where the Kurds organize the guard. There are also many U.S. military on the scene. I was in Washington for two days, where the president said at least 200 soldiers would stay. Now there are about 2,000 soldiers out there. My question then was whether it is possible to do something else. I have now heard from some groups that it might be useful to consider a possible presence of troops. I may go to a European debate, but I will not only ask the partners to do so. That would be too easy. Either there is a real intention to do something, but perhaps there will be a debate on this in the coming weeks or months. So far, surveillance has been ensured by various actors in Iraq or Syria. We must also get the identification of the Belgians on the spot. We're working on a tribunal. I know that a solution will not be found soon. A number of trials have already been carried out in Iraq before the Iraqi Tribunal. That's also a possibility. Mr President, since there is a clear interest in operations and the plenary session has set up the committee responsible for monitoring missions abroad, I would like to make it clear that my cabinet is at the disposal of the committee next week if it wishes to meet. If the question is urgent, I think it would be useful to confirm it. We are ready to present all existing operations. I would also point out that since the beginning of the coalition, there have been American demands to deploy all possible means. From the beginning, we have set limits. Whenever there is a request within the coalition, we inform about everything we do, but we do not repeat day after day that the decision has long been taken in Belgium not to send troops to Syria. I heard a few different opinions this afternoon. If you want to hold a debate on the subject, I am ready to do so. In times of day-to-day business and with a minority government, I repeat, there will be no decision without consultation with Parliament. I would like to see respect for the Constitution, but we must also respect the fact that we do not have a majority in Parliament. I do not know who chairs the special committee responsible for monitoring missions abroad, but next week or early August we are available to ensure that the committee is properly informed. I have heard the urgency of the debate and I do not want to postpone such an important presentation for Parliament in September.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u34	I would also like to make it clear that, as I know, no chairman has yet been appointed for this committee. The committee can, of course, already meet, if it so wishes. I propose that we conclude this first topical debate so that we can move on to the second debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u35	Mr President, Minister, this week our group published a document by the NATO Parliamentary Assembly on the presence of nuclear weapons in Kleine-Brogel. We all know that in recent years there have been some slips and slips from various defence ministers, but so far there has never been any official confirmation because of a politician in our country that these American nuclear weapons are there. The document of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly is yet another proof that this is so, so all the excuses have now been used to prevent the debate from being ruined in the Chamber. As far as we are concerned, nuclear disarmament is the ambition. Nuclear weapons are terrible weapons. That's what history taught us. The nuclear weapons that would have been stored in Kleine-Brogel are ten and some say even twenty times more powerful than the atomic bomb that was dropped over Hiroshima. Nuclear disarmament is therefore the ambition, but we also know that this cannot happen unilaterally. It must be done by agreement, and this requires dialogue and negotiation, but it must be the ambition. The fact that the United States is the only country in the world, the only nuclear power, is to put its nuclear weapons in third countries. It could be a first important step for nuclear superpowers to decide to withdraw their nuclear arsenal to their own territory. From that starting point, a level playing field, further ambitious and decisive negotiations for nuclear disarmament can take place. Moreover, there is also a second element, namely that Donald Trump is the US President and is thus at the mercy of American nuclear weapons. Donald Trump is a very aggressive international politician: he is threatening a war against Iran, he has also blown up the INF disarmament treaty and he does not like international cooperation. In the current context, American nuclear weapons are far too high a risk on Belgian territory. Our country must not be caught up in Donald Trump's aggressive language of war and in a new arms race. That is essential for us. We are asking for an adult debate, and that of course begins with the recognition, by you as Minister of Defence, that these nuclear weapons are in Belgium. Then we in this House, and wider in society, can finally discuss whether or not this is a good idea. Minister, I have four questions. First of all, are there nuclear weapons in Kleine-Brogel? Are there American nuclear weapons in our country? Are you prepared to argue that Belgium should remove nuclear weapons and withdraw from the nuclear sharing agreement with the United States? Our country can do that. Greece has done so in the past. American nuclear weapons were also removed from Spain and nuclear nuclear weapons were also removed from certain nuclear bases in Germany. So there are precedents. Secondly, whether you like it or not, the government, or a government, will have to take a position in the coming years on the update of the American nuclear weapons in Kleine-Brogel. This update is for very soon. Some say he's already in progress or maybe he's already done. I would ask you to clarify this. It would be a new type of nuclear weapon. Shall we allow that? Will we agree to that? Will our country then continue to be anchored in a nuclear strategy? Besides, the new F-35s are on their way. Within a number of years they will be in our country. Will we decide that these new fighter planes will have nuclear capacity, just to carry and possibly even deploy the Small Bull's nuclear bombs? This may be the moment when a Belgian Minister of Defence decides not to go along with it and put a stop to the nuclear role that our country currently has, precisely because it would be wise for the United States to withdraw its nuclear weapons on its own territory. In this way nuclear disarmament can continue in a reasonable way, in conjunction with the other nuclear powers. This is particularly important because, as I said, we are dealing with the unpredictable American President Donald Trump. Finally, I would like to have an overview of nuclear disarmament in international fora. In which fora is Belgium currently committed to the resumption of mutual and gradual nuclear disarmament? We know that the context is not favourable, but it is our question that Belgium, especially you as Minister for Defence and Foreign Affairs, should play a major role in this process and reinvigorate multilateral dialogue, preferably in conjunction with as many other countries as possible and within the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u36	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, everyone knew that. But what was still yesterday a secret of polichinelle is today a public truth that must be assumed also publicly. Yes, there are indeed American nuclear bombs on Belgian B61 territory stored at Kleine-Brogel airbase. In any case, it is clear from the draft postponement of a parliamentary committee, the NATO Defence and Security Committee, that my colleague from Groen, Wouter De Vriendt, and I were able to read. As a new and young member of this House, this is my first thought. If a NATO parliamentary committee can affirm this in such a public way with such ease, I think that our country's defence committee has, a fortiori, the right to discuss it in an equally public way. I would therefore like to ask you several questions in three parts. As far as the storage of American nuclear weapons on Belgian soil is concerned, could you at last affirm the truth and therefore express the position of the federal government, even though the military experts doubt their usefulness? How has the Federal Government therefore also given effect to the various resolutions which have been adopted, on several occasions, by this House and also by the Flemish Parliament? Part two. The report refers to the modernization of these nuclear weapons stationed in Kleine-Brogel and their replacement with more precise and rapid weapons, namely, American B61-12 nuclear bombs. The report refers to a budget of $7.5 billion to $10 billion. Did the federal government indeed give its authorization for the delivery announced in this NATO pre-report of new nuclear bombs, these famous guided bombs B61-12? In the event that Belgium has actually given its consent, what about our compliance with the 1968 nuclear non-proliferation treaty that we signed and ratified? Finally, I come to the third part of my speech. This pre-report also indicates that Locheed Martin, the manufacturer of the famous F-35, has been awarded a contract worth US$350 million for this plane to be able to carry the new B61-12 nuclear bombs that are announced on Kleine-Brogel base. Since this element has allegedly played no role in the public market for the F-35 in Belgium, can you confirm that the choice of the Belgian government was in no way intended to take away these new weapons of mass destruction, as the NATO report seems to indicate? Furthermore, could Belgium block the decision on a future development of the F-35 related to new nuclear weapons?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u37	Mr President, Minister, thank you for being here. As I said yesterday, I have known about the presence of these nuclear weapons for over 30 years. I myself participated in events in Kleine-Brogel at the time. The strange thing about the story is that they have been refusing to confirm this for more than 30 years. At the same time, it has never been denied that nuclear weapons are present. Yesterday, I heard the spokesperson of your cabinet give the same response to the news. He said the government shouldn't talk about this. What are we not supposed to talk about? Who's not allowed to speak? This looks like a light version, a decoction of Area 51. However, the residents of Kleine-Brogel ask themselves a lot of questions. It was always suspected that there were nuclear weapons, but there was never any mention of security. Those civilians remain in the dark. As could already be heard today and yesterday, this is about the worst secret ever kept. The concern on the ground is enormous. What about security? What about the weapons on the scene? What if the barracks became a possible target? I am particularly concerned that we need to hear this again from the media. The same applies to the purchase of the F-35s. We deeply regret this form of communication. However, the puzzle around the F-35 begins to fit together. What arguments have been put forward to station the F-35 in Kleine-Brogel if there are nuclear weapons on the ground? We know that Trump wants to replace and modernise nuclear weapons everywhere. We are, of course, concerned about this. What's that gonna give you? Do you have eyes on that? Not only for us, but certainly for the citizens on the ground, we also have the following questions. Do you confirm or deny the authenticity of the document that has come out? Do you confirm or deny the contents of that document? Is it true that the government is not allowed to communicate about the nuclear weapons in Kleine-Brogel? What authority imposed that ban? What democratic legitimacy does that authority have? Do you continue to oppose a public democratic debate on the desirability of US weapons of mass destruction on Belgian territory? This debate is taking place in other European countries. Are your colleagues responsible for nuclear safety and public health aware of a nuclear risk in Kleine-Brogel? Is specific security measures provided for?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u38	Mr President, Minister, as you will understand, I obviously agree with what Comrade Gaby said. So I am not going to repeat them, just like my colleague Samuel d'Ecolo. For me, it's a first. I am also a newcomer to this commission. I would just like to add a few elements. I'm shocked. For me, it is outrageous that there are nuclear weapons in our country. We've been denying the case for 30 years. (...): Sixty years!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u39	We were not born yet sixty years ago! It's outrageous. I say it with a little humor but it doesn't make me laugh at all. I have participated in a large number of demonstrations and it is not by chance that a peace movement continues to develop. On the other hand, we are told that nuclear weapons would be an important deterrent to our security, let us doubt that. When you know it's Trump in charge, there's something you can't be comfortable with. It is reported that the United States is in the process of modernizing – a good word to say that we will continue to manufacture weapons to kill – the weapons. It is said that these weapons are much smaller but they are still able to shave a city like Antwerp in seconds. For us, the question arises of the link between the fact that we have weapons from the United States on our soil and the fact that we decided to buy F-35 planes out of price while the social and climate situation is urgent in Belgium. We can better understand why this political choice has been made as long as in one way or another and despite what is said or what is not said, we remain at the balance of US policy through NATO. Minister, are you confirming or denying the authenticity of this document? Do you confirm or deny the content of this document? Has the presence of nuclear weapons in Kleine-Brogel affected our country's attitude towards the United Nations Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, since Belgium was at the time one of the countries that voted against the Treaty? Can you confirm that the ability to transport nuclear weapons was a secret condition for the purchase of F-16 successors? Can you confirm that the presence of weapons is an obligation related to our membership in NATO? Are you open to public debate about our NATO membership?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u40	Mr President, Minister, a public document of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, which is a little different from a NATO document, confirms that Belgium is home to many American nuclear weapons on its soil. This document refers, in fact, to the presence of B61 nuclear warheads in the Kleine-Brogel military base. This information once again revives a burning debate that can be tense in many ways. I obviously did not wait for this information to intervene, particularly in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Halifax in November 2018, by asking that NATO no longer make the nuclear pillar one of its foundations. I have therefore long advocated with my group that Belgium should take the path of multilateralism to achieve global nuclear disarmament, in accordance with the objectives of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. It is a matter of releasing, through this process, our territory from the presence of nuclear weapons. For example, my colleague Stéphane Crusnière has regularly asked you, Mr.Minister, during the previous legislature, about the development of a binding international legal instrument to ban nuclear weapons. He had a socialist amendment adopted through a House resolution, calling "to firmly include Belgium in the fight for nuclear disarmament, within the framework of multilateral negotiations, in which Belgium continues to participate actively, in order to free its territory from any presence of nuclear weapons". So I would like to take advantage of this oral question to ask you these few questions and take stock with you. How do you respond to this information? What multilateral initiatives has our country taken to free our territory from the presence of nuclear weapons? What position does Belgium stand in this regard within NATO, and in international forums, in order to draw up a binding legal instrument to ban nuclear weapons with a view to achieving their total elimination? Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u41	Mr Minister, in our country there is a chance of a historic moment, a turning point on nuclear disarmament, due to the combination of a few dossiers. These two dossiers are, firstly, the nuclear modernisation programme financed by the Americans and, secondly, the purchase of the F-35, a device that can theoretically gain nuclear capacity. For the record, today is not the case. The previous government decided to buy the F-35, but it was not decided that this included nuclear capacity. It wasn't in the question. Well, there isn't any today. It will be up to the next government to take an effective position on this. That is why it is very important for us here in Parliament to play our part and discuss it. My questions are in line with the many good questions that colleagues have already asked. I won't repeat it. I do have some specific questions about the costs. Firstly, it is well known that the Americans themselves bear the cost of modernising nuclear weapons. But are there any additional costs for our country? I am thinking of costs for, among other things, the adjustments to the infrastructure and aircraft and the security of the barracks. Secondly, there is no decision yet on the nuclear weapons capacity of the F-35. But if a new government does decide to do so, will there be additional costs for our country? If so, what amounts are we talking about?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u42	Mr President, Minister, the presence of B61 nuclear bombs is not even a secret of policinella in our country. It's been known for a long time. Some ministers have mentioned this for a long time, such as Guy Coëme. I also remember that during a visit to Kleine-Brogel, Minister De Crem told us on slides that F-16 planes could carry nuclear bombs. This has been said on some occasions in a military magazine. It's no secret, and there's no scoop. On the other hand, it seems to me important to have a democratic debate. Others recalled: they are not anodized weapons. We are in the context of nuclear reproliferation. We see what's going on in North Korea. There is concern about the situation in Iran and other countries. We are just a few days away from the withdrawal of the United States and Russia from the Treaty on Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces (FNI). This is extremely worrying for Europe's security. While there are obvious concerns about the future of European security, particularly in the nuclear field, I find it very important that we have this debate, as in any democracy, in connection with our security. What will be the impact of these weapons on our security and protection? Are they likely to reinforce or aggravate the situation? This is a fundamental debate. Minister, I do not understand why, for so many years, the government's attitude has been not to confirm or invalidate the presence of these weapons on our territory. Was there a deal? Are we legally bound with the United States? Is this a political commitment of the Belgian government? What is the origin of this policy not to invalidate or confirm the presence of nuclear weapons? It would still be interesting to understand whether we are legally bound on these issues. On the other hand, what is still the point today of not confirming the presence of these weapons, since everyone knows that they are there? By definition, our potential enemies know they are there and they probably know the details. I don't understand very well. Within NATO's parliamentary assemblies, this issue is openly debated. I was recently present at this parliamentary assembly in Slovakia. I do not understand very well why, in the Belgian Parliament, we cannot be informed or debate this issue in an open manner. This seems to me to be a breach of our democracy and of our rule of law. It is essential to have a detailed discussion on the value and desirability of retaining weapons, which, according to some American reports and to many experts, are highly questionable in terms of military utility. If this is not unanimous, it will in any case bring together a large majority of experts, including the United States. These weapons would now have extremely little military utility and could possibly retain one politically. Many questions also arise about this political utility. I think this debate is very important. The presence of these bombs is not annoyed. They may in themselves pose a security problem, particularly for those who live on the bases where these bombs are located. It would be important to confirm or invalidate the usefulness and relevance of maintaining nuclear bombs in Belgium. Another aspect is the issue of modernization. The decision has been taken for a long time. The Americans have committed themselves to a major modernization programme to make them bombs that could be guided and would therefore be more precise. These are the famous B61-12 bombs. We are told of this major programme that it will replace 800 nuclear bombs in the United States with 480 new bombs, and that it would cost ten billion dollars. I'm reading that, just like you. You probably have better information than I do. It is a very large programme, which is very expensive, and which concerns nuclear bombs in five European countries. It would be interesting to hear the views of those countries that had B61 stocks on their territory. I hear that Germany wishes to have a debate on the desirability of maintaining this arsenal. It is also questioned whether there is a link between the replacement of F-16s by F-35s and the ability of F-35s to carry B61-12 nuclear bombs as early as 2023. A program has just started in the United States to allow the F-35s to carry these bombs. Are our F-16s capable of carrying these new bombs or have we had to change planes? Have the Americans refused to adapt the current Belgian fleet? Is this something that has been hidden from our Parliament with regard to the criteria that should prevail for the future of Belgian combat aircraft? This is a question that arises today, since it is stated that certain types of F-16 cannot carry B61-12 nuclear bombs and that it is a question of ensuring that future aircraft can carry these bombs. Here are some questions that I think are useful, important. The debate seems indispensable to me in a good democracy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u43	Mr President, Minister, I will be brief, because much has already been explained and many questions have already been asked. Our group believes that the elements that have emerged this week deserve a serious, thorough, sober and well-prepared debate in this House. There are two dossiers that can be used as leverage over the next few years to make a decision on, among other things, the weapons that lie there. I said yesterday in committee that we should put the hypocrisy behind us, ladies and gentlemen. We have known for 30 to 40 years that there is something there. There are a lot of people who have been hanging in the barbed wire to argue against it. You're not going to argue against something that's not there, are you? We must avoid hypocrisy, but at the same time we must also ensure that we dare to say the truth. Mrs Depraetere, I am pleased that you noted that the government has not purchased nuclear capacity for the F-35. This capacity was not requested and was indeed not purchased. I hear today from several speakers that Trump can press a button in the White House and these missiles can take off here. However, that is not how it works. Please refrain from doing so, because with that... (...) It is time for Belgium to take part in the decision on what happens to those weapons. This too must not be denied. (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u44	I believe Trump is pressing your button. In the meantime, let's have a look at what's going on with the micro.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u45	Minister, I have two questions. Can you confirm once again that for that F-35 no nuclear capacity was requested and ordered? Secondly, can you explain what the role of Belgium is within NATO's nuclear pillar?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u46	After the questions, I shall first give the floor to the other Members who wish to intervene.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u47	Mr President, since many questions have already been asked and the official title of this additional meeting was 'exchange of views', I have incorporated some ideas or thoughts into my intervention. The Pope is Catholic, water is wet, Stalin was a communist and since this week we also know that there are nuclear weapons in Kleine-Brogel. As I said yesterday, when I decided to hold this additional committee meeting, my mother, my wife, my son and my dog also knew that. So I do not understand why there is so much commotion about this, apart from the fact that Mr De Vriendt rightly wants a debate on nuclear weapons in a broader sense than just their presence in Kleine-Brogel. We're here together now, so we're gonna have to make the most of it. Should we have nuclear weapons? If it depends on Flemish interest, then we prefer to see the world nuclear-free. Unfortunately, for the time being, 'the ideal world' is only a relatively good television programme, in my view. So we should not really think that unilateral disarmament is a good idea. After all, that's like taking a knife to a gunfight. That doesn't seem very sensible to me. Do we want nuclear weapons in our country? We do not want them, but perhaps they are a necessary evil. Is our country not hypocritical when today, so to speak, the Americans and their 20s, I am told, are throwing out B61 nuclear bombs, although 'ejecting atomic bombs' may be a wrong choice of words, but at the same time expect NATO to read or understand underneath that the United States will keep us under its military and nuclear security umbrella? Our country has been in NATO class since 1949 which has been protecting us from potential bullies and potential bullies for a little over 70 years. I'll let them in the middle of where they're coming from. Unfortunately, we are not the best student in the class either. After all, in the group work called 'Contribution to NATO', we like to hide ourselves. The only thing that gives us in class a little sympathy or a little specific weight is the fact that we carry the bookbag of the big, strong, tough guys. That is probably one of the reasons why the big, strong, tough guys still tolerate, tolerate and want to protect us, apart from perhaps the fact that the school building is in our backyard, especially NATO headquarters. I fully agree with Professor Luc De Vos on this point, who said this earlier this week in the media that having nuclear weapons on our territory is perhaps a form of solidarity with the other NATO Member States. On the other hand, we must dare to ask ourselves whether, if we no longer tolerate or allow these weapons on our territory, we should not shift our responsibilities somewhat towards our allies. That is quite morally superior, but the question is to what extent that attitude is responsible. Secondly, if we are not already the best contributor in NATO and if we delete this too, we must dare to ask ourselves whether we still want to remain a member of that club. Being a member of a club also has consequences. For us, this is a serious consequence, especially of having nuclear weapons on Kleine-Brogel. Action and reaction, being a member of something has consequences. A first question to the Minister is actually an opinion poll. If we were to decide today that arms should be removed, what budgetary and political consequences will that have for our country? I suspect that the disappearance of nuclear weapons might reduce the tolerance of the allies because we will contribute less. Are we prepared to do so in the context of no pain, no gain? Do we even want and can we wear it for practical reasons? A number of people will now wonder whether the good boy of the Flemish Interest is now holding a plea pro nuclear weapons. No, or not necessarily. I wonder what is the use of B61 floating bombs in 2019. I think we should all ask that question. That nuclear bomb actually served as a response to a Russian missile R-12, known to NATO under the code name SS-2. That's a Cold War relic. A second question that I may not have to ask the Minister, but to his neighbour, is the defence of our country and, by extension, the defence of NATO still contained in a defence strategy dating back to the Cold War? Do these weapons have any practical use, apart from the deterrent effect? In parallel with my colleague De Vriendt I have a question about the version that is present in Kleine-Brogel. After all, we have a tactical and a strategic version of that B61. The strength of those bombs, depending on whether it's a tactical or a strategic weapon, ranges from 0.3 kilotons to 340 kilotons. That saves a house or two when they're thrown down somewhere. Finally, I have a number of questions that have also been asked by other colleagues. One concerns the trillion dollars in modernisation of the nuclear arsenal in the United States. We know that this will start in the Netherlands in 2024. Like the other Members, I would like to know whether we are already in the process of modernising them, whether they are coming and whether there is any cost involved. The obvious question concerns the F-35. Was that nuclear capacity a parameter in the recital? Is he still gonna be there? Finally, I would like to return to this one-sided disarmament. I hear a number of colleagues arguing in favour of this. That is a noble idea, in which I can find myself to some extent. It's a fantastic idea, but I'm afraid it's unrealistic. Slogans in the trend of 'Ban the bomb' and 'Down with nuclear weapons' sound good, but I fear that we should throw it over a more pragmatic path. Minister, perhaps the idea that I am now launching here is as naive as 'Ban the bomb' and 'Down with nuclear weapons'. Are you prepared to seek partners within the alliance in order to encourage the nuclear powers within NATO to negotiate with the other nuclear powers on the planet in order to reduce the nuclear arsenal or whether or not to completely dismantle it? If you manage to eliminate even about 20 nuclear missiles on the other side, then we may be lucky and then we will also lose some 20 B61 nuclear bombs from Kleine-Brogel. Are you prepared to take such an initiative or to support it in advance if this happens to another partner?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u48	Mr President, I agree with the Left and Right parties who reject hypocrisy and ask for openness and clarity about nuclear weapons. I believe that few people in the Chamber would be opposed to disarmament as much as possible, not only in the nuclear field but also in other areas. At the same time, we are members of NATO. I agree with NATO that as long as other nations have nuclear weapons, NATO Member States have nuclear weapons at their disposal. As a deterrent, as a betrayal strategy, I believe that these are important. If we take away these weapons, we must look at the alternative. This means that we have to re-arm ourselves firmly conventionally. I believe Putin is working on that right now. Once again, I am in favour of negotiated and non-unilateral disarmament. But I believe that in the present context nuclear defence, the cornerstone of NATO, has its place. I am in favour of political clarity. Well, we cannot say that we want to remain a member of NATO and at the same time not acknowledge that cornerstone. If we are not prepared to do so, then we must follow the PVDA's programme and leave NATO. That would be a consistent attitude. If, on the other hand, we consider NATO to be important, and that is my personal opinion, then we must also accept that it contains a nuclear component. The question that then arises when we try to remain a Member is whether we should obtain an exception. But what is the point of our country having NATO headquarters on our territory put itself in that corner? I think we should be consistent. Membership of NATO means that we must accept that cornerstone. This also means that we must be politically united and nuclear weapons cannot simply park over the ocean or in other countries or do not do our part. I advocate a consistent attitude in the story. Again, America is creating space, as far as I am concerned, for withdrawal. That's Trump's policy. Now, what are we doing with this open space, what are we doing with this responsibility? Shouldn't we fill it out for ourselves? The removal of nuclear weapons on our territory, I assume, would amount in part to avoiding our responsibility. If our country is a member of NATO, there are a number of consequences. If one thinks that our country should not be a member, that is the political opinion of the extreme left and perhaps of other people in the Chamber, then the consequence is clear. And I say this with all due respect to all kinds of political opinions. In that case, our country must ask itself whether it is conventionally armed enough to prevent attacks from the East, for example. My view is that we are not prepared in the defence field without nuclear weapons. It would also mean an incredible budget increase, because perhaps we should double or triple our budget in order to be able to resist in a credible way. I would therefore find it a wrong decision to unilaterally remove all nuclear weapons and advocate a NATO without nuclear weapons. That's actually an absurdity, to be honest. Am I an opponent of multilaterally negotiated disarmament? Absolutely not, we have to go as far as possible, but unilateral disarmament is hypocritical. As for the F-35 file, I asked the American specialist at the hearing how much it costs to upgrade the F-35 to deploy nuclear weapons. That answer was a bit disconcerting: that's $300. In this respect too, therefore, we must stop hypocrisy. The F-35s are purchased and, if you put up a 300-dollar piece, you can use them to transport or shoot off nuclear weapons. That is the political reality. I understand that it is a political leap to work for that. My party won't make that jump today. Anyway, what is morally the difference, if there are nuclear weapons, between firing an atomic weapon from the ground or from an aircraft? To be honest, I don't see a big difference in that. That is why I am calling for consistency and for hypocrisy in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u49	Mr President, first of all I want to make it clear that I have carefully followed all the statements and publications published in the press and concerning certain documents. However, I have not seen any official NATO document, but a draft report under the responsibility of a member of the Parliamentary Assembly, that is, a member of parliament from an acceding State. So there is no official NATO document. I have read and heard information about a document drawn up under the strict responsibility of a rapporteur of a parliamentary assembly, i.e. a member of a national parliament of one of the allies. It was confirmed by NATO. It is useful to note this. As others have done, I would point out that Belgium shares with a large number of countries the vision of a world without nuclear weapons. This is a long-term vision that can only be achieved if all nuclear Powers commit themselves in this direction through concrete, irreversible and verifiable steps and the non-proliferation treaty is universalized and fully respected. In the meantime, Belgium has expressed and is still in agreement with NATO's strategic concept that deterrence should be based on conventional and nuclear capabilities. In this context of deterrence, like NATO, Belgium has never confirmed or invalidated the presence of nuclear weapons on its territory. And I do not intend to propose a policy change in a government in day-to-day affairs with no majority in Parliament. But I can tell you that in 20 years of participation in the federal government, as I am today, I have heard this repeated position from my socialist predecessors, CD&V or N-VA with the support of environmentalists, Liberals, sp.a. and cdH. I think it is good to recall the realities of the recent period, which I consider to be recent, since I was a member of these different governments. I am obviously not opposed - far from that - to a parliamentary debate on all these issues. It's up to you to clear a majority in one direction or another. But when we talk about getting out of hypocrisy, I have often found that we often get out of it when we leave government majorities and maybe go back to it a little more every time we participate in the majority. In any case, I have quoted from you the positions on nuclear deterrence and on the information to be given about nuclear weapons in the various governments with the support of all the formations I have mentioned. Until the appropriate conditions are met for the global elimination of nuclear weapons, NATO remains a secure and effective alliance with a nuclear deterrent capability. As a reliable ally of NATO, Belgium supports the alliance's policy. We attach great importance to solidarity with our allies and will not take or support unilateral initiatives. Moreover, changes to NATO's nuclear attitude are decided by consensus among the Member States. As far as the non-proliferation treaty is concerned, nuclear cooperation treaties were already in force within NATO when this treaty was negotiated and entered into force. This specific situation was accepted by the signatory countries and was not questioned at the review conferences. The Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons has been adopted by 122 countries, signed by 70 countries and ratified to date by only 23 countries. It will enter into force 90 days after the fiftieth ratification. Belgium is not one of the signatory countries to this Treaty. With regard to the maintenance at the operational level and the extension of the lifespan of American nuclear weapons, this is the purely national responsibility of the United States. The choice of the successor of the F-16 – the latter has nuclear capacity – was made without regard to nuclear capacity, which was not available at that time. The memorandum of understanding between the USA and Belgium provides that Belgian aircraft will comply with the latest available specifications. The current configuration – Block 3F – already fully meets the operational requirements of the Request for Government Proposal. The United States will have further developed the F-35 by 2025, so that the device will be nuclearly capable. However, the Belgian Government has not yet taken a decision on the nuclear role of the Belgian F-35. In concrete terms, this means that the decision on the nuclear role of the F-35 can be taken at the earliest during the next legislature. Furthermore, our country also considers any measure taken in the context of non-proliferation which, in close consultation with the other NATO partners, increases confidence and transparency as a source of stability and as a possible step towards a further global reduction in the number of nuclear weapons. I obviously confirm my readiness to participate in a debate on this subject. With regard to the decisions to be taken by Belgium in the context of NATO's deterrence policy, it would be very interesting to hear the views of the various groups. I do not hide from you that I will be very interested in this exchange not only as Minister of Defence, but also as an informant.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u50	Minister, this is indeed a period of ongoing business, but you are also asking for a signal from Parliament. Well, have you heard how many colleagues have asked for transparency here today? Have you heard how they have called for honesty and an honest answer to the basic question of whether or not there are American nuclear weapons in Kleine-Brogel? I am convinced that a majority in this committee wants to know the truth, so that there can be a public debate on this. Everyone knows: the Russians, the Chinese. There is therefore no argument for not having a transparent and open debate on this issue. If ministers continue to block this debate, a full parliamentary debate, which could lead to the removal of these nuclear weapons, is virtually impossible. If you do not want to admit that these nuclear weapons are in Kleine-Brogel, then of course Parliament cannot ask for them to disappear from our country. However, there are very good reasons for this, which are by no means naive but, on the contrary, very realistic. I will quote Guy Verhofstadt, Louis Michel and the late Jean-Luc Dehaene. They have said in very clear terms that American nuclear weapons are no longer of any use in Europe. We live in a democracy. We believe that it is up to the people to speak out whether weapons of mass destruction are heard in our country, yes or no. It is quite clear, in our view, that this should be the subject of a fair and open debate with the people. The opinion piece, signed by Willy Claes, Jean-Luc Dehaene, Guy Verhofstadt and Louis Michel, dates from 2010 and was repeated in 2013. I would like to read out a short passage for colleagues. I quote: 'The American tactical nuclear weapons in Europe no longer have any military interest. The remaining political usefulness as a symbol of the transatlantic link is to a large extent insufficient as an argument to maintain it, knowing that it will continue to send the signal to the rest of the world that nuclear weapons are needed. This is why we are indirectly promoting proliferation and undermining our country's security, just the opposite of what we want to achieve." There have been resolutions in the Flemish Parliament, in the Federal Parliament. There are 350 cities and municipalities, majorities, mayors, ships in our country who want the removal of American nuclear weapons in our country. So the basis of support is enormous, Minister. What are you waiting for? Transparency is needed. Many colleagues have argued in favour of this. If it is not possible with you as Minister of Defence, then Parliament will take up its role. Our group has tabled a proposal to remove the American nuclear weapons from Kleine-Brogel. It has been considered and it can be handled perfectly. The committee has also decided to organise hearings with a number of experts. Minister, I have heard a majority here asking for transparency and an answer to a fair question. You chose not to give that answer today, and that is a great pity.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u51	Minister, I regret the lack of transparency and clarity in view of such a crucial issue. I don't understand! We've been talking about these B61 bombs on the Kleine-Brogel site for decades. If a Canadian senator can afford to speak out and make it very clear that American bombs exist here and that they will be replaced over the next decade, why not a Belgian defence minister? Why cannot Parliament benefit from transparency in this respect? Secondly, I would like to make something clear: the Treaty of the Atlantic Alliance does not require us to possess, store and control these American nuclear weapons. Not at all! Norway, from which the current Secretary-General of NATO came, has always clearly refused to store such weapons on its territory. Other NATO member states have once stored them – I am thinking of Greece or Spain – but they have stopped accepting them at home for years. Canada refused to do so in the 1960s. This refusal was expressed by Justin Trudeau's father. That's why I don't understand that in 2019 we didn't make the same decision – whether it's multi- or unilateral. We could take it legally, with a view to working towards nuclear disarmament. This presence of weapons is no longer a secret. Even the hostile powers know about it. In my view, this storage on Belgian soil is more a risk than anything else. We saw it with the failed attack on Trabelsi in 2001. That is why, as parliamentarians, we take on our responsibilities. We are leaving a plenary sitting of the House, in which we have taken into consideration the bill I have written with my colleague Wouter De Vriendt, in order to call for a ban on American nuclear weapons on our territory. In the past, there have already been majorities to vote for very clear resolutions calling on the federal government to withdraw these nuclear weapons. If necessary, today we will move on to a bill to require, in a binding manner, that the federal government have these weapons removed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u52	Minister, I do not know whether I should laugh or be furious. I would have bet my head you wouldn't confirm the message here today. Let me take a look at our Limburg province. Citizens are involved in everything, for example in the North-South link, the rapid tram or the cutting of the Essers forest, which could be stopped. In Limburg, democracy goes so far as to ensure that in certain municipalities people even have to get the approval of their neighbor when they want to place a garden house. However, when we talk about nuclear weapons in the garden, there is not even the basic courtesy for 40 years to give that news to the people who live there. That's just below all levels. One aspect is to inform the Chamber. A second aspect is, however, the most scandalous of all: the citizen, who has to apply for anything, is not even informed about his safety and about the possibility of being a potential target. We've heard it here. If you do not confirm the news here, Parliament will not be able to argue with it in theory either. Our group will certainly examine all the existing possibilities of getting these nuclear weapons out of Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u53	Mr Minister, you said that Belgium's long-term objective was to dissuade the interest of having nuclear weapons. In doing so, with my party, I ask myself even more about why we have not signed the United Nations treaty. As far as the F-35s are concerned, you say that the United States will buy new planes capable of carrying nuclear weapons, but that yours - it is not ours because we did not vote for their purchase - was not intended to carry these weapons and that it will be up to the next government to make a decision on this matter. Furthermore, why was Saab's proposal withdrawn at the time of the decision to purchase the F-35? Finally, I care about one question. We were many who put a question about attendance and absences. You were not present when your absence was not expected. It is obviously your right not always to be there, but we still do not know the reason, which I do not find very correct with regard to the Members of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u54	Minister, thank you for your answer. First, unless I am distracted, I did not have a response to resolution 901 adopted in 2015, which called on the Government to take any initiative aimed at firmly including Belgium in the fight for nuclear disarmament. I have not had an answer about the initiatives taken by your government on this issue, by you personally or by your predecessor, since you have not been a Minister of Defence since the beginning of this Parliament. I have not had an answer and I will therefore certainly come back to another committee to clarify your position and, above all, your action in this area. Secondly, with regard to the F-35, you referred to a position and a decision. I always wonder if the choice of the F-35 was presupposed because they were equipable. The question is not whether they are equipped or not. Was the choice of the F-35 made because it was potentially equivalent to a nuclear weapon? Has this choice been biased from this point of view? Thirdly, I hear a colleague telling us that it will not be enough for President Trump to press a button to take off or blow up these nuclear bombs. Nevertheless, I do not know what the chain of command is. I also call for full transparency on this chain of command. How does this happen? What is Belgian sovereignty in this respect? That seems crucial to me. We are bound by a treaty and by our participation in NATO. But to what extent? What is our capacity for sovereignty in this area? This worries me all the more because we are not dealing with a regular American president. He is a president of great versatility, and sometimes childish. You can see it in his reactions on his Twitter account. I am all the more afraid that the question, even if it is very important, is not whether or not we should remain in NATO, nor whether or not we should bear the consequences, as Mr Bogaert said, of a NATO nuclear choice. We are members of NATO and we can make a difference within it. We can argue for a change in NATO's strategy on the choice of the use of nuclear weapons. NATO can evolve; it is not because we are part of it that we must accept things as they are. I've been too long. I have read carefully a statement from High Representative Mogherini, dated 14 July. The Commission is concerned today: "In view of the increasing security seriousness and instability, we stress the need to preserve, and continue to move forward, the general processes of arms control, disarmament and non-proliferation". That's why we're talking about nuclear weapons. It is Europe that speaks through Mrs Mogherini. The conclusion of this press release is as follows: "We call on the United States and the Russian Federation to strive to further reduce their arsenals, including strategic and non-strategic nuclear weapons deployed or not deployed, taking into account the particular responsibility of the States possessing the largest nuclear arsenals." What worries me is that we have the impression, on the one hand, that NATO has its strategy, that Belgium is indeed participating in this strategy implicitly or explicitly, and, on the other hand, that there is a desire of the European Union expressed by Mrs Mogherini to emancipate herself from this and therefore to move towards another choice. I would not like our participation in NATO and the presence of nuclear bombs in Kleine-Brogel to undermine this ability to emancipate us Europeans from a NATO strategy which, I believe, is very focused on the strategic choices which are essentially American and which are not necessarily ours. American interests are not always European interests.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u55	Minister, I have not received an answer to the question of whether the modernisation, the American programme, also entails costs for our country. We are again bumping into the lack of transparency. You refuse to confirm that there are nuclear weapons. Apart from the fact that the people have a right to know this, it is simply up to this Parliament to check costs and determine whether there are costs there. Or are you saying there's no cost to our country? This is a lack of transparency, because if there is an effective cost to pay for the modernisation of these nuclear weapons, then Parliament should know this so that we can control it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u56	I said exactly that this is a national competence of the United States. That's obvious, I think.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u57	So there is no cost for us, for example, to update our current aircraft in order to carry the new nuclear weapons?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u58	It's the U.S. that decides to do that. For which bombs, I don't know. I also said it: no confirmation, no denial. One should not try to ask this by another way. There are no costs for us, even for the nuclear weapons that lie in the US.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u59	Nor for our infrastructure, for our aircraft, I understand that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u60	As far as the aircraft are concerned, I have said that it is the next government to decide whether or not to change the F-35. It hasn't been decided yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u61	Of course, but my question is whether there is a cost for an update of the F-16 to transport the modernised nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u62	There's no decision on that. The government will later make a decision for the F-35, during the next legislature. For the rest, there's no information on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u63	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u64	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation of what Belgium is doing in the framework of NATO. I listened very carefully to the Green and Ecolo colleagues who have tabled a bill to remove the weapons from Kleine-Brogel, if they were there. I would point out that a debate on this is a debate on whether or not we remain with NATO. One can either be a member of NATO and then one joins in a number of things. You may shake no, but I am entitled to my own opinion, or one gets out and one does not participate anymore. One can hardly be half member or light member. It's hard to be half pregnant. That will then be a debate on whether or not we want to stay with NATO.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u65	Mr President, I am a fan of English humour and this debate can count in absurdity. Minister, you have answered a number of questions, but by not answering the key question, by not saying what you know, what we know and what everyone knows, you have confirmed what you do not want to confirm and so we are back at the beginning. The circle is complete and you have already achieved one thing. That is that there will still be some administration and that the parliamentary carousel will run. We will all take a round, and you will have the same question in the near future, and I am sure you will give the same answer if you are still Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u66	The most important question will not be answered today. I have heard here in committee that many colleagues are for a nuclear-free world and a nuclear-free country. That's good in itself. A few reactions have bothered me a bit. For example, Mr Bogaert has used the word 'hypocrite' ten times here. Let me tell you what I think is hypocritical. In 2015 we commemorated the hundredth anniversary of the first gas attack in Ypres. In the Flemish Parliament, all parties adopted a resolution stating that we want to get rid of nuclear weapons. In the coalition agreement, we talked about a nuclear-free country. However, if we look at the past few years, our country is doing a lot less well in this area. The UN ban treaty is the first treaty in a whole series of nuclear disarmament that we have not signed. In 2017, we did not congratulate the organisation ICAN that received the Nobel Peace Prize. We are not even asked anymore in international fora, when it comes to making our world nuclear-free. We are all here in the first place because we have principles and yet want to change and improve a number of things in our world. Principles are one thing, converting them into reality is obviously another matter. I hear the colleague of the Flemish Interest say that his party is against nuclear weapons, but then he starts defending the fact that they are there. In reality, it will be a lot harder to implement our principles, I want to understand that. However, I hope that in the coming months and years we will be able to support our principles, give signals and develop plans to get rid of nuclear weapons. If everyone keeps going around the pot and insists that the other one takes the first step, not us, then the problem will never be solved. That's why I'm making my call.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u67	Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the floor again. I'll try to keep it short. There's a difference between defending nuclear weapons and explaining why they're there. I have explained why our party has a very pragmatic position on this. It is very nice to take a knife to a gunfight, but I know in advance who is 'birded', as they say in clean Flemish. That's the principle I tried to explain. Do I want a nuclear-free world? It's obvious that's what everyone wants. However, this is not a pageant and world peace will unfortunately not be for tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, we can conclude the debate for today, but it is certainly not over yet. Yesterday, we agreed that there would be a follow-up: legislative initiatives are on the table, a hearing is on the way, there might be more visits and so on. The matter will therefore still be for further discussion and discussion in any case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u69	Mr President, I have asked my services to prepare a note on our operations abroad. I therefore confirm that next week I am at the disposal of the committee responsible for the follow-up of foreign missions, but that choice lies with Parliament. Since some say it is urgent, we are prepared to give all the details in a meeting next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-18-55-commissie-ic004x.u70	It is, of course, up to that committee to organise this if it deems it desirable. The committee was set up today. If I were well informed, her first meeting would take place on 11 September, but colleagues would be free to take initiatives to respond to the offer.
