ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u2	I have received amendments to the draft law introducing the Code of Companies and Associations and laying down various provisions (No. 3119/01). I have received amendments to the bill introducing the Code of Companies and Associations and introducing various provisions (No. 3119/1). In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 February 2019, I propose that these amendments be sent to the Trade and Economic Law Committee (Art. 93, No. 1, of the Rules of Procedure). In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 February 2019, I propose that these amendments be referred to the Committee on Commercial and Economic Law (Art. 93, No. 1 of the Regulation). Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Consequently, and in accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 February 2019, I propose that the discussion of points 2 and 3 be postponed. Therefore, in accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 February 2019, I propose to postpone the discussion of items 2 and 3. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 February 2019, I propose that you postpone the next item to the plenary session of 28 February 2019: Appointment of alternate members and members of the Office of the Central Supervisory Board for the Prison Service (No. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 February 2019, I suggest that you defer the following item to the plenary meeting on 28 February 2019: Appointment of alternate members and members of the Bureau of the Central Prison Supervision Board (No. 3531/1). Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u3	Mr President, to my disappointment, even if it is not unexpected, my question about the cost of nine new gas plants that the government wants to build, a question I had addressed to the Prime Minister, will not be answered by him, but was passed on to Mrs Marghem. Last week we addressed a very clear and precise question to Minister Marghem asking for a clear answer. Today it appears that the answer was not so precise at all, quite the contrary. What is in the paper today indicates that it was wrong. That is precisely why we want to question the Prime Minister. After all, it makes little sense to question the Minister again about something that she did not want to give the right answer to last week. I repeat my request to assign the question to the Prime Minister so that we can talk about the government's position. After all, we had Mrs Marghem's show last week.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u4	Mr Wollants, I fear you know my answer. The answer is that after consultation it was decided to have the answer given by Mrs Marghem, who commits the entire government to the position and who responds on behalf of the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u5	Mr President, I take note of your answer, but I read something quite different. I read in it that the Prime Minister prefers not to interfere in the dossier. I read in it that the Prime Minister clearly does not want to put his hands in the fire for Mrs Marghem. I take note of this and will make my comments on the whole for Mrs Marghem shortly, but rest assured, they will be addressed to the government, particularly to Mr Michel.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u6	Mr President, Prime Minister, a tweet by US President Trump was needed before the Belgian Government realized that there could be a huge potential security problem in the possible return of the famous Syrian fighters. After many years of sending hundreds of these IS fighters from Belgium to Syria, we have now finally come to the understanding that it is best to try them there. But, says this government, it must be a fair trial there in Iraq. There's a polite silence on Syria. Much is not enough because this government is also going to oppose the use of the death penalty. Prime Minister, let us be clear, these IS terrorists do not deserve our naïve opposition to the death penalty in principle. The Belgian IS terrorists will receive a more just punishment in Iraq and certainly in Syria than they could ever get here with us. The punishment for these ISIS executioners can only be the death penalty for hanging or execution. The fact that our country is now taking advantage, for the umpteenth time, of that famous European Convention on Human Rights to plead for so-called humane punishment for these IS killers is too crazy for words. Eye for an eye, tooth for a tooth. No UN tribunal, no velvet glove justice and no fuss, Prime Minister, about human rights for these mass murderers. The right to humane punishment has been forfeited by these terrorists themselves. Those who, Prime Minister, cannot count on human punishment, compassion, compassion, let alone a fair trial, are the victims of the IS terrorists here with us, in our own country, in Europe, but certainly also in Syria and Iraq. The death penalty for the IS terrorists is the only possible, just punishment for these monsters. The death penalty can save the lives of many citizens. Let us therefore respect the sovereign states of the rule of law, Iraq and Syria, their justice and their criminal laws, instead of wanting to be the moral conscience of the world once again and to give the Iraqi and Syrian governments the moral lesson.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u7	Mr President, Prime Minister, the military situation in Iraq and Syria is evolving favourably with the end of the Caliphate and the takeover of the last pockets held by the jihadists. Since Belgium has been actively involved in all operations, it seems that we can only welcome this outcome. In view of the military developments on the ground, the President of the United States undertook to withdraw his troops from Syria by the end of April. On Sunday, he also urged his allies to repatriate their nationals, those who had joined the Islamic State group. This is in addition to the request made with, I think, increasing insistence by the Syrian Kurdish authorities who feel that they should not assume this responsibility. Prime Minister, as of Monday, you have indicated your wish as to the fate to be reserved for foreign and Belgian fighters detained in Syria. This position was endorsed this morning by the National Security Council, which stated that "Belgium's preference is towards a form of international justice, in consultation with other countries facing a similar situation." The trail is thus that of the detention of FTFs in the camps in the area. Is the Prime Minister aware of the precise figures of the number of individuals involved in the problem and, in particular, of Belgian or bi-national individuals? Is a form of international justice likely to reach consensus at European level? Has a European consultation started and, if so, according to what timetable?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister, there is a lot of talk about the Syrian fighters. Some say that we should take Belgian nationality away from them, which means that it is no longer our problem, precisely as if there are not many people on the territory without Belgian nationality and even without papers, even illegal. The taking of nationality will really not prevent a Syrian warrior from coming back here. The second point is that we must try the Syrian warriors here, in our country. I wonder how evidence will be gathered. At the first interrogation, the Syrian fighters will all declare that they drove an ambulance in Syria or worked as a nurse in a hospital. That research assignment will be impossible for the court. The Syrian fighters have committed crimes in Syria and Iraq. The applicable penal law is therefore the penal law of the country where those crimes were committed. There are many crimes involved: people were cut over their throats, people were set on fire, women were stoned and gays were thrown off the roofs. The Syrians and the Iraqis have the right to bring those perpetrators to justice, just as we have the right to bring the perpetrators of these attacks to justice. Now it is suddenly discovered that there are several legal orders on this planet. Anyone who attacks here will be tried in accordance with the rules of enlightenment democracy. It is now being discovered that there are different rules in countries without enlightened democracy, and that the death penalty still exists. However, that information is not new, it has been around for a long time, and so did those Syrian fighters. The European Convention on Human Rights is not applicable in Syria, nor in Iraq, and that situation has not existed since yesterday, which has always been the case. My group therefore strongly advocates an international court in which the main role is given to Iraq, Syria and the Kurds. That court must sit on the spot so that evidence can be gathered there. There, the Syrian fighters can be tried according to the rules of that rule of law, which we can regret, but which we cannot change. In my opinion, it would be very good if Belgium were to invest in such an international court, which will also improve our security. I look forward to your opinion on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u9	Mr President, Prime Minister, I believe that citizens are right to be concerned about the potential return of Syrian fighters, Syrian fighters who have turned their backs on our society and who have committed atrocious acts in Syria and Iraq. They are directly complicit in the attacks that have taken place in our country. It goes without saying that they must be punished, that they are best placed behind bars and preferably as long as possible. That's beyond a shadow of a doubt. We must do everything in our power to do that. For the warriors holding Iraq today, the problem may not be so great because they will get their trial there. With the warriors held by the Kurds and residing in Syria, we may have a problem. There is indeed a chance that they will be released and once again pose a risk to our citizens. That is why my party has always been in favour of international cooperation. We have never been in favour of actively retrieving the Syrian fighters. I believe that clear commitments have been made in the government, Prime Minister. It was therefore with surprise that I found this weekend that certain parties have changed their views. Fortunately, reason seems to have returned today. I do not think it is wise to bring the Syrian fighters back to our country. Why? Because the federal prosecutor himself says there's a problem with the evidence. If we cannot prove crimes, this means that they are released and once again a potential danger to our citizens, and we cannot tolerate that. That is why we have advocated international cooperation, an international tribunal, preferably in the region itself. I have just heard Mr Vuye say the same thing and we agree with that. We have argued in favour of this. I am pleased that there seems to be a consensus on this. Ladies and gentlemen, I would therefore like to make an appeal in this House. To those who claim that we have slept, I say: the opposite is true. Today we are discussing in the Committee on Justice a proposal tabled by Mrs De Wit, Mrs Becq and Mr Goffin, in which we wish to strengthen cooperation with international tribunals in order to better guarantee the preservation of evidence. That's what we do. Prime Minister, will our country advocate the establishment of an international tribunal? Did you decide that in the Security Council?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on Sunday, the President of the United States sends a tweet, which, as we know, poses a threat, namely that if the international coalition partners do not assume their responsibilities and do not cooperate in a controlled return, the 800 foreign fighters will be released. On the same day, a large part of the Rue de la Loi is in a cramp and there are all kinds of explanations to be heard. We hear the Minister of Justice say that this is about four fighters. The next minister says it's about six fighters. The Minister of Justice states that he wants to find a basis for them to return in a controlled manner. Others do not want that and evolve in a few days' time, as was the case with Mr De Wever. The view was that a controlled return could be made for certain cases, but that position was subsequently corrected, and it could not be punished enough. Mr Prime Minister, what bothers me very much is that we need a tweet from the President of the United States for a problem that has been on our table for a long time, has been living in our society for a long time and has been addressed by our security services, in particular the question of what will happen to foreign forces or IS fighters at the time when the IS is defeated. So it is absolutely not a new issue. So the cackling I'm hearing makes me very worried. I am therefore asking my question today, particularly in order to try to clarify the federal government's policy in the interests of our country, but also in the interests of everyone who has a responsibility in terms of security policy in our country and beyond. Prime Minister, I would like to know the following, for example. First of all, is this about four or six fighters? Is this perhaps about the dozens of Belgians who are actually active in that region? That would be 60 or 70 people, I hear. What's it about? Secondly, Minister, we must also work internally. After all, you know that many convicted FTFs and Syrian fighters will be released from our prisons tomorrow. You also know that resolutions adopted unanimously have not been implemented in the current ostrich policy. Mr Minister, I am talking about the provision of people who are released. I would also like to know the government's position on this point. Does the government intend to contribute effectively to the implementation of this proposal in order to better organise our internal security?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u11	Prime Minister, the United States has asked the States of the European Union to repatriate some 800 fighters from the Islamic State currently detained in Syria. Since this media release by the President of the United States, we have been given several positions. The Minister of Justice said he wanted a solution at European level to avoid finding jihadists freed, in nature and without control. The former Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration opposed the idea of bringing back fighters from Daesh to Belgium to lock them up in our prisons and instead proposed to withdraw Belgian nationality from these people. Deputy Prime Minister Open Vld pleaded for international cooperation and the creation of an international jurisdiction to try European jihadists in Iraq. And you, Prime Minister, have pleaded that Belgian jihadists detained in Syria should be tried as far as possible in the region of their misdemeanours, while not rejecting the possibility of creating an international jurisdiction. Given the diversity of statements made by the various members of your former majority, can you tell me what the resigning government's position on this issue is? The establishment of an international tribunal for the trial of Syrian combatants seems to be a solution that combines both respect for our international obligations and the need to set up an exceptional tribunal commensurate with the international scale of the facts. Does Belgium intend to embark on this process? When and within what framework will the issue be addressed at European and international level?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are two important principles for us. The first important principle is that we must do everything we can to ensure the safety of our citizens. That must be an absolute priority. That is why, not since Sunday, we have been following with our security services in the Security Council what we need to do at national and international level for our security. That's the first principle. Secondly, we want to do everything possible to avoid their return to Belgium. These two principles are very clear. On the one hand, we want to guarantee security and, on the other hand, to do everything possible to prevent them from returning to our territory as far as possible. What, then, is the state of the situation? First point. For a long time now, we have considered - for children under 10 years of age and when a request has been made - that the government can provide support for their return. Children over the age of 10 will be analysed on a case-by-case basis, on the basis of which opinions must be given by our security services. As far as adults are concerned, what is the situation on the basis of the data gathered by our security forces and available at this stage? In Syria a number of people with links to Belgium are identified. I remain cautious about this notion of "links with Belgium". This may be a nationality, sometimes a dual nationality, sometimes a prior residence bond with Belgium. In Syria, 10 men, 17 women and 31 children are registered. That, Mr. Bonte, is the state of affairs at this stage! We have agreed to instruct our security services to enable permanent screening so that they have the best information about this on a continuous basis. With regard to decisions to avoid any form of impunity for the serious acts that have been committed, there are three possibilities. First, decisions can be made in countries where crimes have been committed. Secondly, decisions can be taken in Belgium on the basis of a link with Belgium. But constraints have rightly been mentioned: it is not easy, at the outset of judicial services, to gather information and evidence. Thirdly, we can work with European and international partners. The third option is to examine with our European and international partners whether it is legally possible to do something in the context of international cooperation. That's what we've been looking at. In the meantime, we have made an initial analysis and we now need to look further at this with our partners. What are the possibilities? There are two major options, the first of which is an international court. The International Court of Justice is complicated, because the Statute of the Treaty of Rome may not cover the type of criminal acts that have been committed. In particular, there is no common definition of terrorism in the International Court of Justice. The second option is an ad hoc treaty with a number of countries that choose to play a role in this. This means that we have to define a procedure which involves a cost. What have we done in recent days in support of what has been done in recent weeks and months? We immediately made contact with our neighbouring countries potentially affected by this situation. I personally had contacts with Theresa May this Sunday to ensure that Britain would work with us to examine the various possibilities. The same applies to France, Germany, the Netherlands and Denmark. This is the first group of countries we work with as a matter of priority. On the other hand, we are also in contact with the Americans to make sure that no action is taken hastily, which could be dangerous to security. On the sidelines of a visit to Brussels by the President of the Congress, Mrs Pelosi, I also had the opportunity to raise awareness, even if she is not directly active in the Trump administration, as everyone knows. We are also in contact with the authorities of the Trump administration, since the Foreign Minister is currently on his way to Washington. This will be one of the main items on the agenda of its work. In conclusion, you see, the government in day-to-day affairs and the Security Council, with the services, are alert. Security is a top priority for us. We have clear ideas about the principles we uphold and we seek European and international support to ensure security and do everything possible to avoid a return that would further endanger security. I come to my final point. I will represent the government in Sharm-el-Sheikh on Sunday and Monday, for a European summit with the Arab countries. I will certainly take the opportunity again in the margins of that summit to hold many political discussions at the highest level, with that ambition and that objective.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u13	Prime Minister, you have talked to about everyone, including the Americans and European countries, in order to bring the Syrian fighters to justice. The only country that is not talked about is the country where the Syrian fighters have been drawn and where many of them are still staying. That country is called Syria. You have no relationship with that country. You don't have any information. You have no idea what's going on there. Yesterday I went to the trouble of meeting with the Syrian ambassador to the European Union and asking what is happening in Syria, which you are not doing. Trump won't fix it there. They'll do it themselves. The ambassador said that they did not intend to do so any more than the Iraqis, because I also spoke to the Iraqi ambassador yesterday to subjugate himself to an international court. Nor do the Iraqis intend to include Syrian fighters who are now on Syrian territory in Iraq. The same applies to the Syrian fighters in the Kurdistan section, although Kurdistan does not exist. That is, in fact, Syria, a sovereign and autonomous country. They intend to bring them to justice and subject them to the execution of the death penalty. The Iraqi ambassador told me: 'Mr Dewinter, only if they are dead and buried, we are sure that those IS terrorists will not again attack and will no longer pose a threat to our country'. The Iraqi ambassador was right about surplus. Instead of talking to Trump, Merkel, Macron and I-know-who, perhaps talk to the Iraqis and Assad, who has done the dirty work for you over the past five years and will perhaps do it again in the next few weeks, when he will put your Belgian Syrian fighters to death.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u14	Prime Minister, thank you for the clarifications you have given us. Over the past four years, our courts have handed down nearly 500 convictions for terrorist acts. At present, some 130 people are detained for terrorist acts in Belgian prisons. More seriously, 62 are released by the end of this year. Prime Minister, I know – and you have recalled – that your primary concern, your priority, is the security and protection of our citizens in the national territory. I have no doubt that this criterion will dictate the most appropriate solution that you will adopt. I also have no doubt that this solution, with which we are going to join, will be shared at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u15	Mr Prime Minister, we must indeed pursue two things: the punishment of atrocious crimes and the protection of our own society. I believe that the best way to do this is to have a genuine international court in the region, involving the Kurds, the Iraqis and the Syrians. It is those countries that have suffered the atrocities. They also have the right to provide for the punishment. We have long known that this is not the legal order of enlightenment democracy. Those Syrian fighters knew that the moment they left. I read that you would lobby, along with other European countries, not to carry out the death penalty there. I don't think anyone here is gonna like the death penalty. But be aware that you are actually giving these Syrian fighters preferential treatment that other Belgians do not receive abroad. When someone in the United States commits a crime, or when someone in Thailand is caught with large amounts of drugs, they also get the death penalty. The death penalty does not only exist in Syria and Iraq. You must not give preferential treatment to those Syrian fighters. That can't be the intention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u16	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your detailed answer. It is reassuring to note that international cooperation is being sought. I believe that this is the only way to combat terrorism. I would like to say a word to Mr Dewinter. Without a fair trial, the wrong people are punished. This means that the perpetrators continue to walk and that would be detrimental to our country's security. In short, Prime Minister, as far as our group is concerned, you will have every support.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u17	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u18	Mr Penris, you do not have the floor. Mr Bonte has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u19	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u20	I call Mr Bonte.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u21	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is clear that the key to the answer lies in international cooperation. I believe that it is not too early for you to sit down with the European Member States, which are seen as major suppliers of Syrian fighters. I even share your opinion when you say that you will do everything in your power not to bring people with that dangerous profile back to our country. The question is, of course, what guarantee do you have that it will not happen spontaneously if we have to believe the President's tweet, namely that he will open the gates. What guarantee do you have that, besides the first four or six that were mentioned first, no people will spontaneously return from that other group? As far as the children of less than 10 years old are concerned, I would like to urge them to play a more active role in bringing that group back together. I believe that this is important not only for the children but also for the safety of our society. Colleagues, about a year and a half ago, a whole series of resolutions, which were considered important for our security policy, were adopted unanimously under the chairmanship of Mr Dewael. Mr Dewael and Mr Metsu took on the role of ensuring that these matters would be transposed into legislation. I would like to insist once again that a unanimously approved proposal to leave people at the disposal of the government is quickly brought out of prison after a conviction for terrorism. This is ahead of the Justice Commission and is ready to be approved. Let us do this together, then we are a step further in the efficient organisation of the succession of ex-Syria fighters in our country. In any case, I would like to make that appeal, and I would ask for the government's support for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u22	Mr President, first of all let me say that I am truly outraged at what I have just heard. A Member of Parliament insulted a colleague because she defends other ideas and has another way of thinking. We are here in the house of democracy. We have the right to express a different point of view than yours. And fortunately! Insulting a woman like that is unacceptable! Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. Whatever solution is chosen, we must absolutely avoid these people arriving at home free of charge. They have committed atrocities and must be tried for their actions. That is why we also believe that an international tribunal would make it possible to organize a trial in good conditions. This would demonstrate that democracy and the rule of law can prevail over barbarism and, above all, that no crime should go unpunished.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u23	Mr President, Mr Penris' microphone was not activated, but everyone tells me that he has been guilty of a particularly unparliamentary and uncourteous language with regard to Mr Van Cauter. I insist that you have that examined and that you take the appropriate measures. There are other places where Mr Penris can go, but that is not worthy of a member of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u24	Mr Dewael, I also asked the Prime Minister what happened, but we could not hear that from this bank. In the meantime, I have heard what has been said through a number of colleagues. Mr. Penris, that's not supposed to be in the Chamber. Actually, you'd better apologize.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u25	I speak to Mr Penris, not to... Mr Penris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u26	Mr President, I apologise for my language, but I know what I saw in Syria and I know what Mr Van Cauter did not see in Syria. I have gone a little overboard, a little bit perhaps, and I apologize for that, but I invite Mrs Van Cauter to come to Syria and see what we have seen: how little children lose their legs, how little children lose their heads. I apologise, Mr President, and withdraw my words which I have repeated twice.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u27	We take note of the apologies.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u28	Prime Minister, Belgium is the only country in the European Union to have released revenue from Libyan funds blocked by the UN in 2011. This is not a few pieces but an amount of one to two billion euros. This Belgian decision is both illegal and disastrous. It is known that this money finances various Libyan militias who are allegedly involved in various traffickings. For months now, in the Finance Committee, we have been trying to find out who has taken the political decision to release these funds. We have seen the succession of officials and diplomats who have evaded the question and who have contradicted each other, to the point of speaking today of an "immaculate political decision" in this matter. You yourself, questioned here last week, said: "I am not talking about contradictions in the head of a minister; it is not there that contradictions have arisen." But if, Mr Prime Minister, this is where the contradictions lie. The role of Minister Reynders is at stake. At the time of the facts, at the end of 2011, he moved from Finance to Foreign Affairs. So he was able to play on both tables. He uses this change of function to say that it is not within his competence. For months, he's been pounding that he doesn't know anything and that he hasn't done anything. That's not true! We knew that, since the press of the time reported Mr Reynders' statements. A new overwhelming element has emerged today. We are now aware of a letter he sent on 1 August 2012 to his Libyan counterpart, in which he found that he helped Belgian companies recover 30 million euros due from Libyan actors. Mr Reynders has been lying to us for months. He is visibly the political decision-maker at the centre of this file. First of all, I would like to ask you the sluggish question that everyone is asking: has Mr Reynders deliberately, in order to provide a few million euros to Belgian companies, released a few billion euros in favour of Libyan militias? Prime Minister, first of all, will you demand that Minister Reynders stop lying? Are you going to force him to shed all the light on this issue? Then, are you going to force him to shed light on the two Charles Michels: the Prime Minister and the President of the MR? Finally, I would like to put one last question specifically to the President of the MR: is a minister who has lied still legitimate as head of the list in Brussels?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u29	Minister, the release of Libyan funds, Gaddafi's money, which may have been partly spent on Libyan militias, a minister of our country who keeps his mouths shut and walks away from the cameras, a top official who makes contradictory statements, all of which does not give a good picture of our country. The question of one million is what Didier Reynders knew. The letter from 2012, which appeared last week, provided the final proof for a case, namely that Didier Reynders played an active role. In that letter, he asked his colleague in Libya for information so that he could facilitate the release of Libyan funds. Amazingly, a few months after his letter, the former top man of the Treasury sends a letter to the bank in our country where the most Libyan money lies, to say that there is actually no reason to maintain the freezing of that money. In addition, we also notice in the letter a very nice sample of marchanding. The not so subtle message is given that if the Libyans pay the invoices from Belgian companies, there can certainly be talk about the release of Libyan funds. Prime Minister, Parliament must be clear. The former top man of the Treasury has stated that such a decision such as releasing Gaddafi's money cannot be without political backing. So who is politically responsible? What was the role of Didier Reynders? The fact that his letter of 1 August 2012 did not appear until now proves that information is being withheld. Prime Minister, help us. In the five or six weeks that we have left, help Parliament to clarify the matter. Tell your ministers who were involved at the time that they must come to the Chamber with their letters and documents so that we can bring out the truth. I am asking you this question not only as Prime Minister, but also as chairman of the MR. I would also like to congratulate you on the extra mandate in your already busy political life. As I understand it, you're actually Didier Reynders' boss now. You may have a lot of work to do with one of your party members, but since you now run Didier Reynders, I'd say solve the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u30	For months, Prime Minister, colleagues and myself, Minister Reynders, in the Chamber, questioned about the freezing of interest. Each time the Minister's answer was:Me know nothing, I am from Foreign Affairs, please contact the Minister of Finance. The hot fries were sent to the Minister of Finance each time. Fortunately, I am proud of this letter from 1 August, thanks to the cooperation of the chairman of the committee. That letter teaches us three things. First, Didier Reynders actively participated in 2012 in the freezing of interest. I have many reasons to believe that he repeated that later. Second, his marches didn't miss their effect. The file on the freezing was stuck, because since October 2011, the Treasury knew that the money could be released, but nothing happened. However, look at the timing: in August, Minister Reynders writes a letter, in September Euroclear asks for the liberalisation of interest rates and on 4 October, the Treasury gives its consent. So his interference produced results. Thirdly, also FN and CK Technology, two arms companies, are on that list. However, the Minister would never have admitted that, despite express questions about this, including mine. I have two questions for you, Prime Minister. The list is not complete. This is just a first letter. We know that there are other letters and I do not rule out any changes to the list. Prime Minister, I would ask you to instruct your Foreign Minister to provide the committee with the most recent list. I would also ask you to instruct him to explain to us the criteria according to which companies were included in that list and why Prince Laurent's non-profit organisation did not receive any support. Finally, I would ask you to have all the information available to the Treasury and the Foreign Affairs Office delivered to the Chamber. We have already asked for this, and now I ask for your support, Prime Minister, because the dossier still has many dark corners.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u31	Mr President, Prime Minister, a few days ago we received a letter from Mr Reynders in his capacity as Minister of Foreign Affairs, sent in August 2012 – remember this date – to his Libyan counterpart. In this letter, the Minister for Foreign Affairs refers to the amounts of Libyan assets held in Belgium and envisages the thawing of funds to finance certain "humanitarian" projects and to reimburse certain Belgian companies. Today, however, it is known, Prime Minister, that thawing, even of interests, is considered by the United Nations as a violation of its recommendations. Belgium has been pointed out by the UN in an increasingly opaque case. Prime Minister, have you had any contact since the contents of this letter were published with your Foreign Minister on this subject? On what legal basis was Mr Reynders referring to the thawing of funds with his Libyan counterpart? I'm not hiding from you that the mystery is thickening. The Finance Committee would like to see it clear and very quickly! First of all, there are recommendations from the United Nations that seem clear: Libyan funds are not being frozen. We then have a small meeting of the RELEX group, at which a lawyer claims, orally, that interests can be thawed. The Belgian representative to the European Union wrote an informal e-mail in which he referred to the intervention of the European jurist. From this email, the director of the Treasury deduces that the lights are green and that can be thawed. Prime Minister, we think we're dreaming! But that's not all! The same director comes to the committee to tell us that there was no contact with any political sphere and, just after that, he says the opposite in a recorded interview. I do not hide from you that with this letter, it is difficult, it seems to me, to say that we have nothing to do with this file. Not only is Mr. Reynders interested in the question, logical in view of his function, but he nevertheless defended the position of thawing, two months before the Treasury sent its famous letter of 4 October 2012 allowing the thawing of interests. Is Mr. Reynders a guess? Prime Minister, you will confess that the chronology of letters does not plead in favour of Mr Reynders, who may well be the political contact mentioned by the Director of Treasury. In any case, it seems to be well involved when you seem to say that this was not the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u32	Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the least we can say is that it is difficult to obtain information about this scandal of Libyan funds. I would remind you that we are the only country in the world that has released funds worth two billion euros, and that today no one knows what these funds have become. They may have been used to prolong war and terrorism in Libya. In any case, this letter is quite a turnaround. Indeed, as other colleagues have said, it was the Minister of Foreign Affairs who, in August 2012, was manoeuvring. We learn from this letter that he met with the Governor of the Bank of Libya in February of the same year. He meets with him to discuss financial issues. Moreover, this letter predates the clarification by the Belgian Treasury that the income of certain assets could possibly be released. It dates from August when Monbaliu sent his letter on 4 October 2012. Of course, that is not surprising. Finally, we learn the total amount of funds that were available in Belgium. So far, we have been told that it is totally illegal to inform Parliament. It is about EUR 14 billion. Today, therefore, there is a whole series of information that contradicts – I am sorry to say so – the statements made by the Foreign Minister. He was the one who was at the manoeuvring; he is the one who remains there. It is he who proactively – wrote in his letter: "I would like to inform you" – informs the Libyan authorities that there is still EUR 14 billion left in Belgium and that they could benefit from it if they made a formal request. This is very meaningful information. Prime Minister, we are facing a very serious situation, a case that turns out to be scandalous. It would therefore be normal for us, as parliamentarians, to finally be informed. Who took this responsibility? On what basis? In what context? What was Belgium's interest? How did this happen? What happened to these funds in Libya? Today, even the Libyan sovereign fund, namely the LIA, does not know what they have become and it investigates what is happening. Prime Minister, we have the right to the truth about this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time that we have had an opportunity to address this issue, since we did so again last week in plenary. First of all, debates have taken place on several occasions in the Finance Committee. I noted that the freezing of funds decided by the Treasury was based on an interpretation of a United Nations resolution. Contrary to what I have heard here, to my knowledge, a European country such as the United Kingdom has also applied this interpretation. This resolution has been subject to so many readings that it has even been amended, in order to avoid any doubt as to the thawing of funds. These are the first factual elements, which I communicate with you very carefully to ensure the quality of objective information. Secondly, I come to another extremely important aspect. As I have said on many occasions, and because we have been involved in sometimes intense and lively debates for four years, as Prime Minister, I have put a point of honour in ensuring that Parliament has access to legitimate information so that parliamentary work can be carried out in a manner that respects the separation of powers. Secondly, I repeat that the separation of powers is an important principle of our democracy. Well, there are a number of procedures on the issue: there is an administrative procedure at the Council of State and there is a judicial procedure. We must show respect for the separation of powers, which I, as Prime Minister, must also watch over. Thirdly, after our debate in plenary last week, I took a clear initiative: I asked the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Foreign Affairs to provide me with a full report containing information on the various contacts, initiatives and decisions relating to the dossier. I have asked the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Foreign Affairs to prepare with their administration a report which can be forwarded to me and which I will take care to forward to Parliament. Finally, I have formally asked the ministers concerned to ensure, at the hearings scheduled in the Committee on Finance, that they cooperate fully with Parliament so that it can have all the information that is useful to its work.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u34	Prime Minister, you are not answering anything on the substance. You are telling us that Parliament can have access to the information, but so far we have received nothing. What we got, we got it from the gang. You have asked for a report from both ministers, but you have not committed yourself to forwarding this report to Parliament. In the case of Caterpillar, you have requested a report that has never been forwarded to Parliament. We are facing a problematic situation of conflict of interest. Unfortunately, this is not the first conflict of interest in this government. It can even be said that it is the government of conflicts of interest. Minister Reynders is a specialist in the genre! He began his ministerial career with an immense conflict of interest by serving at the Carmeuse Coordination Centre while as Finance Minister he was defending the coordination centres against Europe. Let us not talk about the conflicts of interest caused by the presence of his chief of staff on the board of directors of one of the main holding companies of the Brussels Stock Exchange! Let's not talk about Kazakhgate, where all the paths lead to Didier Reynders! Didier Reydners is certainly an emblematic case of conflict of interest, but this is not an isolated case. Didier Reynders is a conflict-of-interest specialist and that's why the PTB has tabled bills for politicians to stop sleeping with big capital!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u35	Prime Minister, you have announced a number of measures for which I would like to thank you. I'd like to ask you to put your shoulders underneath. Parliament does not have much time left to bring out the truth here. It's a very embarrassing file for our country. When we become members of the Security Council, the UN is devastating about how we dealt with the issue. According to our information, Belgium is the only country that decided to release Kadhaffi's money in this way. Somewhere this measure has been given the political green light. We do not know where and anyway, contrary to what was always maintained, Didier Reynders played a very active role in this letter. That, of course, raises the necessary questions. I hope that we do not have to threaten with a committee of inquiry so that the truth will come out here. It should be self-evident that the ministers concerned should spontaneously put all the information on the table. It should be obvious that we are doing fair politics in our country, in a transparent way. It is time to get rid of this old political culture and gibberish, including files and Members of Parliament who are not fully informed. Prime Minister, you still have work to do. We do not have much time left, so I hope that we can work on this beyond party boundaries.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u36	Prime Minister, if it is right, it must also be said. I thank you for your offer that the reports drawn up by the Ministers for Finance and Foreign Affairs will be delivered to us. That is what we agreed yesterday in committee. I think that is a step in the right direction. However, experience has shown that we must be careful with this. Prime Minister, I do not expect a note of four or five pages with two, three or four annexes. No, we want all the documents relating to the management of Libyan property with the Treasury and with Foreign Affairs in the period 2011-2017. That'll be the final touchstone for me. I repeat that you, Prime Minister, and we are at an important moment. The question is whether we are dealing with a government that does not cooperate fully with the Chamber, which is trying to clarify and answer the question of whether EUR 2 billion that Belgium has unlawfully left did not end up with militias, traffickers or other criminal organisations. The government owes it to itself to answer the question where that money went.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u37	Prime Minister, just put yourself in our place. We ask many questions and always receive the same answer: "Circulate, there is nothing to see." Systematicly, by scratching a little, we discover something, not necessarily in committee. In committee, people speak, but not necessarily to say everything. We then learn from the press a whole series of small things. You used oratory precautions. I'll use the same ones. You said that the United Kingdom had done the same thing as Belgium. I'm not sure, but I'm using the same oratory precautions. Mr. Reynders at least recognized one thing, it was that he served as a mailbox. I don't know what was in the mailbox: letters or envelopes. In any case, some envelopes have been used by different companies. At least one ASBL didn't take advantage of these envelopes, it's Prince Laurent's. It seems to me that the fight against deforestation is also a humanitarian project. Why did she not benefit from it?I wonder some questions. You say he's a citizen among others. I think that we do not necessarily act in the same way when it comes to Prince Laurent as for another, but it is not necessarily to his advantage. I wish we could do him justice, because without him, we might not be here to ask you these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u38	Prime Minister, the less we are told about this matter, the greater our concern and curiosity. I note that you are going to request a report. I hope that this report will be able to answer these very serious questions that we are asking ourselves: why, who, how much, and what this money has been used for? In a recent report, the United Nations Security Council tells us that this money has been used for terrorism and war. This is obviously a great concern. I also ask you to be precise and to inform yourself better. I am going to send you a press release from the Libyan Investment Authority, which says that in this case only Belgium has released funds. The mention to Britain is purely academic. Although Britain considered it, it did not. So far, according to the Libyan Investment Authority itself, only Belgium has released these funds. The second thing is that I think it is high time to intervene for this ASBL of Prince Laurent. A court decision is in his favour. This court decision is clear, clear and final. I think that Belgium, your government and you, would be honoring yourselves to ensure that this debt is repaid. It is high time that it is and that we have, for the rest, full clarity on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u39	Mr President, allow me to make a few comments on the Finance Committee, which has just been mentioned several times. Firstly, the letter from Minister Reynders, with the annex on firms and amounts, has come at the initiative of our committee. Mr Van der Maelen and Mr Dallemagne had asked me to ask for that letter, which I did as chairman of the committee, and Minister Reynders sent it within the week. So we obtained the information at the request of the committee and Parliament did indeed play a role. A second important point is that on 15 March we will hold a hearing with Mr Monbaliu in the Finance Committee and also with the current Director-General of the Treasury, Mr Alexandre De Gest. We have asked, inter alia, at the request of Mr Van der Maelen and Mr Gilkinet, to be able to look at the full correspondence of the FPS Finance and Foreign Affairs in relation to the Libyan funds. In this context, the Minister has promised a report. On 15 March, Mr Alexandre The Spirit will submit these data to our committee. We are therefore trying to achieve maximum clarity. Thirdly, we have also asked the counsellors of Prince Laurent, Mr De Bandt and Mr Wtterwulghe to come to our committee to explain the discussion on Prince Laurent and the Libyan funds. I therefore believe that we as a Parliament are playing our part. So far, I have not seen that the government does not want to participate in this. However, we must ask the right questions. The dossier is new to me, as it is to many colleagues, and we are moving forward step by step. In the second half of March we will also hear the current and then members of the government, namely Mr Reynders, Mr Vanackere, Mr De Croo.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u40	And Mr. Van Overtveldt.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u41	We shall also hear Mr Reynders again. We invite them all to our committee in the second half of March, on the basis of the report we will receive. So we play our part. I do not therefore accept that the impression of the contrary should be given. The government is also giving the information we are asking for at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u42	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, two years ago I tabled a bill in this Chamber to apply a reduced VAT rate to the demolition and reconstruction of houses. There was another Minister of Finance back then. In the meantime, advice was sought from the Council of State. So that file is ready to be dealt with. In my legislative proposal, I responded to Europe's comments on the existing regime of a reduced VAT rate of 6% on demolition and reconstruction. This scheme is limited to 32 cities and municipalities and Europe is wondering why this only applies in those cities and municipalities. In addition, there is a question as to why these rules do not include social criteria. The latter is necessary to apply a reduced VAT rate. I therefore propose in my legislative proposal to apply the VAT rate of 6% throughout Belgium, but limited to family homes with a certain maximum area. Minister, the figures show that some 1.7 million homes need to be dealt with in terms of energy efficiency. We need to accelerate our housing fleet in the context of the climate objectives. As you know, our building park accounts for about 35% of CO2 emissions. The accelerated energy efficiency of these homes is therefore absolutely a good measure for the climate. In addition, it is also a good measure to support urban renewal by giving cities and municipalities some oxygen to shape that urban renewal. Finally, a recent study shows that the VAT reduction in these 32 cities and municipalities has had positive effects, without, however, raising real estate prices. Indeed, the study shows an impact on the number of scrapping licences, but no increase in real estate prices. Minister, time for action! I understand that your party chairman supports my proposal. It has also called for this measure to be implemented for the climate. Everything's ready. What is your position as the competent Minister of Finance? What do you think of the reduced VAT rate for the whole of Belgium? Will you support parliamentary initiatives and not wait for a new form of government?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u43	Mr President, Mrs Smaers, thank you for your question. In our country, we do indeed have a rather outdated housing park that is absolutely inefficient in terms of sustainability and energy use. Today there is a reduced rate for renovations. There is also a measure in 32 cities and municipalities for demolition and reconstruction. I myself and my party are absolutely in favour of taking measures in the area of reduction of charges, which will ensure that the existing old housing park can be renewed as soon as possible. Moreover, this can provide an important economic stimulus to a sector in which there is a great deal of technical expertise in our country today. However, these measures must be tested at European level. There is a possibility of a reduction within a social policy of reinforced housing. That needs to be checked out. For me, however, the most important condition is that the measure should only apply to the demolition and reconstruction of houses which then meet the right sustainability conditions. You give the proposal of a social condition. I absolutely want to link the condition that, in the event of a reconstruction, the houses in the area of sustainability must be absolutely able to be at the top. I am in favour of that policy. However, we must also, of course, have the means to carry it out. This is not a free measure. I am absolutely not in favour of a reduction in taxes in this area, in order to have to make an increase somewhere else. In order to pursue this policy, we need resources. The right way to have these resources, for example, is to look at what the Netherlands is doing. In the Netherlands, the activity rate is much higher than in our country. If we were at the level of the Netherlands, about 600 000 people would be working more. With a labour market as organized in the Netherlands, we would have the means to implement your proposal of policy. I'm definitely a partner for your proposal. I hope that you will also be a partner for our measures, in particular to increase the participation rate in our country, in order to have the means to implement the policies.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I would have understood your President's call a little differently in recent weeks. She immediately agreed to the measures for a reduced VAT rate for demolition and reconstruction throughout the country. I didn't know any additional conditions would be attached to that. I understand it would be about the sustainability of the house. I agree perfectly with that. I think it is right that if we want to speed up the replacement of the housing and building park, which, of course, needs to be more sustainable. I think we'll find each other perfect in that. I just don't think we should wait much longer. It's all there. We know the budgetary impact. I do not think we should wait months or years for another government to approve this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u45	Minister, our economy and prosperity are based on one fundamental fact: businesses must make a profit. For us liberals, profit for companies is not a dirty word, it is the essence of our economy. If profit is to be made, three things must be done about it. Firstly, a company must reserve part of this for innovative investment. Secondly, those who have taken the risk must be compensated for in order to provide the capital. Thirdly, the staff involved in achieving that profit must be compensated. As Liberals, we are therefore pleased that this government has introduced the system of profit premiums. The initial information on this measure shows that more than 800 companies have paid this profit premium to around 5 000 employees. They received an average of EUR 744. That is a first important step. If we do an analysis, we can see that it is not the large companies that are applying this measure and not actually the micro-enterprises. It is mainly our SMEs that do so. I believe that this measure is not sufficiently known to our companies and is not yet sufficiently accessible. There are still too many administrative and other burdens to make this system more effective. Minister, have you assessed this measure within the government? How do you wish to make this measure more accessible to all enterprises in our economic system? Do you also see in this measure a solution to the existing blocking in the discussion between employers and employees on the current small wage margin? This would allow companies that are doing well and making more profit to spend more on their staff.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u46	Thank you, Mr Van Biesen, for your question. Indeed, the figures for 2018 show that this measure is very promising: 738 companies have used it. More than 50 000 employees have benefited from it, for a total of €90 million in benefits. It is true that SMEs in particular have made use of it. This measure contrasts with the previous Participation Plan, the success of which was rather limited. In 2017, only 54 companies made use of it. Part of the success of the profit premium lies in the fact that it is a very simple and fiscally also attractive measure. Very few restrictions have been imposed. The main limitation in my view is that the premium must be paid to all employees within the company. For me, that is an essential condition. If a company makes a profit, it is not only because of the management, not only because of the shareholders, but also because of the employees. I think it would be logical for this premium to be paid to everyone. The additional figures we have show that this measure will have a strong growth rate in 2019, as large companies in particular did not have the opportunity to include this measure in their remuneration plans last year. As you yourself pointed out, this measure is indeed outside the wage standard and is an opportunity for companies that are successful and have the means to give employees an additional wage increase without being limited by the wage standard. I believe that this measure can be an additional solution to the difficult discussions we are having at the moment. It does not replace the existing wage increases that are applied linearly, but it does give firms greater flexibility to allow those who are at the root of the success of the companies, especially all employees, to benefit from the success of those companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u47	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We should make an extra effort for what I consider to be the most important element: the accessibility of this measure, its penetration into micro-enterprises. Not only large enterprises, but also companies with three, four or five employees should be able to use this system. I am convinced that we will then enter into discussions on the wage standard in this country in a different way. When companies allow their employees to take advantage of the profits of the company, we really are in a social-liberal economy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u48	Minister, after the incidents of Tuesday evening in Verviers, I am not only outraged but also embarrassed to be Belgian and Walloon in particular. To obstruct, without hesitation, the use of criminal means such as physical violence, the holding of a conference by a colleague, also a former Secretary of State, elected from a democratic party and whether or not he wishes to do so, the largest party in that country, is totally unqualified. Preventing Theo Francken from giving another vision on a subject that currently divides the whole of Europe is a profound attack on democratic values, such as freedom of expression or freedom of assembly. These left-wing activists, FGTB and Greenpeace, felt encouraged and strengthened by the presence of the socialist mayor whose role is to maintain public order in his city. This is unacceptable and intolerable! Measures must be taken against him. This is a serious mistake for the local police officer. In Wallonia, debate becomes forbidden. Intolerance reigns supreme. The calicoes and messages exposed are cold in the back. We are no longer in democracy. All those who do not think like this left can no longer express themselves to the point of being subjected to threats and violence. Freedom of speech is locked either on the climate where only the IPCC opinion is taken into consideration or on immigration, where only left-wing activists have the right to express themselves. Some political parties are simply excluded from debates on the public channel, in such a way that French-speaking Belgians do not realize the deception that some people use and abuse. Wallonia is turning into communism. This left is busy leading Belgium to the confederalism of which it is so afraid, while it has continued to impoverish economically and socially this region. The landscape is black. It is certainly not with similar trade union practices that we will attract investors and redeploy our region economically. Minister, what steps do you intend to take to restore the serenity of the debates in Wallonia? What measures do you intend to take to ban or dissolve fascist groups such as antifas? What measures do you intend to take in the face of the attitude of the mayor of Verviers, president of the police zone of Vesdre, who found himself facing his own police, which is a serious fault in his head?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u49	Mr President, I would like to congratulate you on your birthday; happy birthday to you! However, we did not come here to talk about this. Minister, I have a question about the events in Verviers, on which Mr Carcaci has also taken the floor. This is the year 2019. It should be the most normal thing in the world that when a politician from the hemisphere speaks in another part of the country, he can count on serenity and express his opinion freely, even if certain people in that area do not agree with it. That is democracy, which everyone in the hemisphere is always talking about. What happened on Tuesday night really defies all imagination. That there is a protest, I can live with that. However, if that protest turns into violence, disorder of public order and vandalism, then there is a problem. A further problem arises when the local authority, in particular the mayor, supports it. In such cases, a mayor must ensure order and tranquility. What has been done here? There has been violence and chaos. That's not a mayor's job. Mr. Secretary, I expect you to condemn this state of affairs publicly. Can you also tell me what means you are going to use against this, even if Article 82 of the new municipal law in Wallonia is no longer applicable? Will you, for example, have a meeting with the governor of Liège, not that of East Flanders, on the issue of disorder of law and order, and do you know well what measures can be taken against the mayor? I look forward to your response.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a balance between the right to speech and the right to freedom of expression is essential in our society. At the same time, I strongly condemn any form of violence during demonstrations and demonstrations. The mayor is in our country the authority responsible for the administrative police on the territory of the city or municipality. The mayor has a duty to ensure security in the city. Therefore, he or she may also take the necessary administrative police measures to ensure law enforcement and public security in the territory. The mayor of Verviers took part in a demonstration against the presentation of a book by Mr Franken. As a result, she found herself face to face with her own police officers. It appears from our latest information that the preparation of the event would have taken place normally, in the sense that the mayor gave her instructions to the local police chief of corps. This information has yet to be formally confirmed and reviewed. The disciplinary regime of the mayors falls within the competence of the Regions and the Walloon Government. You were right to notice that. As Minister of Security and Home Affairs, I am responsible for the actions of the police. Regardless of the possible investigations of the Walloon Region, I will immediately request the necessary investigations from the General Inspectorate of the Police in order to confirm, yes or no, whether prior instructions have been given by the mayor and to verify whether these instructions were sufficient to manage developments on the ground in matters of public policy, or whether a temporary replacement has been provided by an authority delegated by the mayor. I will therefore assume my full responsibility for the matters that fall within my competence as Minister for the Interior and Security.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u51	Minister, thank you for your answer. However, I would like to quote the words of the mayor: "Shits of extremists!" Those are his words. We're talking about freedom of expression? Yes! Freedom to demonstrate, yes! Are these words worthy of a mayor or mayor? Where are we going? Minister, you're tired of being stigmatized and always called facho or far right as soon as you don't share someone else's idea. What is democracy? What is freedom of expression? That's the big deal. Only when it goes in the right direction. This is not allowed when it goes in the other direction. Everyone has this word in their mouth but only in cases where it suits them. This is the reign of unique thought. Because, Mr. Minister, who pebbled? Who broke? Who was violent? Who are the real extremists? I'm asking you the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u52	Thank you, Minister, for accepting your responsibility. I'm counting on you to make contacts within your powers, including with the governor. As it now seems, with the action of the Walloon Region, that will end in a reprimand, which seems very cheap to me. I want to end with a positive note. Ten years ago, it was not possible for a State Secretary, in this case appointed Secretary of State Francken, to be invited to Verviers. There 200 to 250 people were waiting to make an interesting evening in a serene atmosphere. Ten years ago, nothing like that was possible. The fact that this is now being made possible proves that the spirits in that part of the country are ripening. This can only contribute to a good solution for the whole country and for all parts of the country. I therefore hope that the former and future Secretary of State may receive many such invitations. I wish him good courage, boncourage.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u53	Minister, I will not dwell on the controversy over the types of vehicles that were involved in the accident. Instead, I would like to take stock of emergency management. You heard, like me, that a public service official had openly accused the Louvain centre of not transmitting the information quickly enough. If I believe the press, obviously, the fire services of the Walloon Brabant were first contacted. Then they called Delta's nearby centre in Ixelles. It was only half an hour after the accident that the one at Chênaie, in Uccle, located five kilometers from the place, was contacted. Clearly, it would have been possible to react more quickly at the scene of the accident. In addition, I understand that the union in question would like to file a complaint against you, Minister, and the Minister of Health. On the other hand, the Brussels Secretary of State for SIAMU made it clear: "It is clear from the current evidence that the principle of the most rapid adequate aid has not been respected" and adds that these are "facts which unfortunately recall the same problem of managing the relief that we faced on 22 March 2016 during the terrorist attacks". Minister, the families of the victims are entitled to know the truth, to appease their minds and to ensure that the work has been done well in time and that it is impossible to do better. So, could you please tell us exactly how quickly relief is being provided? Has the principle of the rapidest adequate aid been respected, as must be the case? Is the situation similar to what we knew at the time of the March 22, 2016 attacks? In your opinion, is it possible to further improve the operation of these call centres?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u54	My colleague, first of all, I would like to express my support for the families of the victims of this accident, which has deeply disturbed me. The heads of the Brussels firefighters, the Fire and Emergency Medical Aid Service of the Brussels Capital Region (SIAMU), the Brussels Emergency Power Station 112 and the Flemish Brabant gathered yesterday at my request to analyse in detail the handling of the emergency call for the tragic accident. All parties concluded that the principle of the most rapid adequate aid was respected by the Flemish Brabant emergency centre 112 and that the aid requested via Brussels power station 112 was indeed provided. This means that all emergency services, medical aid, firefighters and the police were alerted immediately after the receipt of emergency calls and in accordance with the principle of the most rapid appropriate assistance. The necessary resources have been properly dispatched to assist the victims. Two calls were made to Central 112 Flemish Brabant. Since the commune of Rhode-Saint-Genèse is located in Flemish Brabant, the Flemish Brabant Emergency Relief Centre was therefore responsible for responding to calls for this tragic accident. There was no problem with the use of languages. A first call, arrived at 0107, reported a car accident with injured persons without mentioning a person who was stuck. Medical teams and police teams were immediately alerted after this call. A second call arrived via the police at 0117 hours to request assistance in order to release people who were trapped. The Brussels firefighters were immediately alerted, as laid down in the directives in one case of people trapped. As regards the choice between the station of Braine-l'Alleud and that of Oak, Braine-l'Alleud is faster than Oakie at the time, despite the difference in distance from the accident of 11 km compared to 5 for Oakie. But, as we know, distances do not always represent real time to arrive at the scene. The SMUR Sainte-Élisabeth was not available. Ixelles's was then called. In the case of the fire department, the one in Chênaie was the fastest and the one in Hal, the territorially competent service. The standard procedure consists of alerting the fastest fire department and informing the competent authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u55	Mr Minister, I thank you for the answers to the question of adequate aid, which has obviously been respected in terms of speed. Nevertheless, in our neighbouring communes - I am talking about Rhode-Saint-Genèse and the communes with facilities in general - although the linguistic problem is not directly at stake, the neighbouring approach is sometimes problematic because of either the linguistic border or the regional borders. I think that, at the very least, it should be considered that in the future, in all firefighters' interventions, it is systematically the closest position - regardless of its regional or even community affiliation - that can intervene for the benefit of those directly concerned. I am regularly confronted with this problem in my municipality in Linkebeek. I note that it is recurring, and I think, minister, that if things are not yet quite pragmatic and if the law does not allow this change, it will probably have to be adapted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u56	Minister, the former ministers of the N-VA are constantly spreading in the press. This is also the case with the former Minister of the Interior, Mr Jambon. This Monday, on Radio 1, he said that the capacity of the federal police had been greatly strengthened thanks to him. Yet the reality is quite different. My colleague Mrs Matz has not ceased to call on your predecessor during this parliamentary term, to be the voice of the police when the police sounded the alarm on numerous occasions, to denounce the linear budgetary savings that have been made to the federal police. The Court of Auditors itself demonstrated in 2018 that police personnel had decreased since Mr Jambon was Minister of the Interior. This week the KUL also released an alarming audit. This shows the growing malaise of the police. It also shows how high the psychosocial burden is. If we had to keep a single figure, it would be this one: 58 police officers thought of suicide in 2018, with the intention of taking action. It's a cold figure in the back. It is particularly disturbing that, despite all these observations, Mr Jambon is so glorifying. Minister, since you have just arrived, it is important to take stock of the active forces of the federal police. In view of these findings, will you finally speed up recruitment, guarantee sufficient forces, keep the promise to hire 1,600 staff members in this famous "Security" direction in order to devote police forces to the security of various public buildings? In addition, are the stress teams that accompany police officers facing psychological, pressure and violence problems now sufficient?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u57	Dear colleague, the problem of the federal police deficit is one of my priorities. To answer your question, I will point out that the deficit has increased in recent years from 4.5% in December 2014 to almost 16% in 2018. Different explanations can be given. Several tasks and missions have been added, including following the terrorist attacks, and the strength has been significantly increased from 12,750 to 14,100. However, the number of federal police officers decreased from 12,200 to 12,145. The result is large deficits, mainly in the administrative police, but also in the Federal Judicial Police. One of the new directions created is that of DAB security, in which the former justice security corps has also been integrated. By April, 800 places will be filled out of a total staff of 1,600. The majority of Dutch-speaking candidates are missing. The exponential increase in transit migration also requires a permanent and mortgaged additional capacity for much of the federal reserve and specialized law enforcement capacity. The local police service also suffers considerably. A possible phasing out of the military on the street will inevitably have an impact on the capacity of the federal police. I can only weigh the interests of all partners in this regard. In order to deal with these large deficits, I would like to tackle the structural refinancing of the federal police. The staffing framework should be filled by 100 per cent and the police's operational and investment capacity should be upgraded to a functional level. Finally, I would like to speed up the reform of recruitment and selection procedures in order to ensure that police officers (men and women) are quickly placed where they are required. I will certainly take into account your recommendation in terms of stress team that deserves our utmost attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u58	Minister, thank you for your very clear answer. It must be noted that, in view of what has been communicated to us in recent years, the reality is quite different. There are fewer federal police forces today than at the beginning of the legislature. If this can explain the reality on the ground, which the federal police keep reminding, it also has an impact on the local police. The former Minister Jambon, however, continues to spread throughout the media. This is particularly indecent, first of all given the reality of the figures, as you have just pointed out, but also given the heavy task of the federal police on a daily basis, which has in no way been reinforced. I can only support the various measures that you have just announced, in order to quickly hire staff at the security management level. Indeed, this will free living police forces in their main security activity. I also hope that today's announcements on recruitment will be followed by action, with the necessary budgets. You can, in any case, count on us to remind you. Above all, I hope that the police will soon see changes on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u59	Mr Minister, a few days ago, we were shocked by the fact that the new first President of the Brussels Appeals Court was not only a bilingual court of appeal where the first President is also the Chief Constable and is in charge of a group of magistrates who is not only a monolingual French-speaking but above all has no knowledge of Dutch. That's a choice that was made not by you, but by the Supreme Court of Justice. Today one can expect that for such a function, in which one leads others, at least the second language of the country is powerful. The language balance would be balanced here because there is a Dutch-speaking magistrate at the public prosecutor's office. The sitting and the standing magistrate keep each other in balance. However, I have to say that the rules at the level of the Court of First Instance are different. There it is legal that the first President of the Court of First Instance and the Procurator of the King have a diploma in their own language but must know the other language thoroughly. Minister, one would expect the same rule to apply to the court of appeal. How is this possible today? Do you agree that we should legally amend this regulation in the same way as in the court of first instance?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u60	Mr President, Mrs Becq, we must distinguish between two problems in this matter. It is true that in Brussels there is a linguistic balance between the first President of the Appeals Court and the Attorney General at the Appeals Court. The Attorney General at the Court of Appeal asked for an extension for another five years, he had been employed for five years, and he is Dutch-speaking. On the other hand, the first President did not ask for the same extension, he wanted to be replaced. Therefore, after extensive consultation by my administration and the government summit, it was decided to write a French-language vacancy, but only for five years. This means that the first President who has now been appointed will not be able to request an extension of her mandate. It will have to withdraw at the same time as the Attorney General at the Brussels Appeals Court. The same language balance exists between the Attorney General at the Brussels Appeals Court and the Federal Prosecutor, who is French-speaking. He will be replaced by a Dutch language within five years, while the Attorney General of the Brussels Appeals Court will be replaced by a French language. Your question is another: what do we do about the language skills of the person appointed as the first President of the Court of Appeal in Brussels? She has been appointed by the French-speaking appointment committee of the Supreme Court of Justice. The condition laid down by this Supreme Court for the appointment of the President of the Court of Justice is that the first President should be qualified in the Dutch language because she does not possess this competence. It is a forgetfulness of the legislator in the reform of Brussels-Halle-Vilvoorde, because in the end it seems logical that the first chairman who is also responsible for the Dutch language area, consisting of Leuven and Halle-Vilvoorde, is also powerful in the language other than the language role to which he or she belongs. We have a very diligent committee for justice and I am therefore fully prepared to seek a majority with the committee to amend the legislation in this area. Otherwise, this is a priority for the next government so that it will not happen again as it is now. However, let us try to put this right, if Parliament so wishes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u61	Mr President, Minister, you are talking about the linguistic balance between the public prosecutor and the incumbent magistrate, but you also said, and I support you in this, that the magistrate may be expected to have a thorough knowledge of the other national language. We are certainly prepared to settle this, either by means of a draft law from you or by means of a bill, as soon as possible. This can be done either by this legislature or by ensuring that it is ready for the next legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall put my question now, since the Prime Minister refused to do so earlier. He smiled to the rescue of Mr Reynders. Mrs. Marghem, you were less lucky. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue to be very concerned about the cost of the nine new gas plants that the government wants to build. Madam Minister, no longer than last week I asked whether you had any calculations that showed that up to EUR 9 billion were needed for these gas plants. You replied that this was not the case, and you asked me how I got there. It wasn't a big deal. What do we see now? We see a whole different story. Today, De Tijd unpacks with an estimated amount of EUR 9 to 14 billion from the CREG for the gas plants. So that's a whole different story. That is EUR 160 per family for 15 years to emit CO2 on the roof of our citizens and businesses. To send millions of tons of CO2 into the air, we will pay heavily. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, here are the slides that were delivered to you on 28 January 2019. Here they are. It is quite clear that the project has a huge cost. Madam Secretary, what did you say here last week? What do you do with it? You want to hide them, hide them, hide them. We cannot, of course, continue in this way. You knew damn well the numbers existed. You also knew very well what I meant when I asked my question last week. That, of course, leads to a number of questions. Firstly, how can such things happen? Secondly, are you effectively planning to join with the government in taking a look at the members of Open Vld and CD&V for 15 years to charge 160 euros per family to ensure that that CO2 can be emitted? Is that the purpose of your policy? Do you not think that there should be more and that we should think very carefully about what is happening? Thirdly, I have another question that actually applies to all of us. In that story, how do you expect to be credible in defending your policy if it is to be done in this way?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u63	Mr President, I am somewhat upset about the substance and form of your speech. Indeed, today I had to correct to Belga the erroneous information that was in De Tijd by explaining that the document on which the journalist is based is written freely by one of the members of the CREG and that this document is not authentic at the level of the CREG, having not been validated by his management committee. I also have an official letter of 13 February which attests to this and which is signed by the author of this document. What did this director of CREG do? At the beginning of PwC's work, he made sure to calculate the undiscounted amounts by taking only the nominal amounts, which simply raised the note from $350 million to $600 million. This is not serious work, which is not validated by CREG. The government will certainly not rely on a document that is not valid to launch its policy. In addition, we have taken into account the comments of the Council of State. We have adapted the text to these remarks and, already today, will be taken into account the framework text of the CRM. You know very well that when the auctions are launched, we will see in a few years what offers will be made and what the prices of electricity will be on the markets. However, you know that these prices are changing and that since April 2018 they have been increasing. The more prices increase at European level, the less support will be given. No one is therefore able to say today exactly what will be the support of the consumer, apart from the very serious assessment validated in task force and by the CREG that was made by PwC. I conclude by saying that reading Mr. André Jurres's article in De Tijd will certainly be very beneficial to you, since he explains very accurately and independently what I am telling you. He recommends that all of us stay cool to ensure that our policy is in the right direction in order to succeed in this country's energy transformation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u64	Madam Secretary, let us be equally serious. I asked you last week if you were aware of any calculations. You received it on 28 January and you told me that there were none. However, those calculations were very clear. Was it an internal document from the CREG? No, it was sent to you and also to the FPS Economy and Elijah, for an official meeting. All the directors were also in cc's. Those figures, based on that exercise, are taken into account. You want to play a game here. The figures would not have been officially validated. You don't want to work on it, but it's a concern of your regulator. Just now, in a reaction to De Tijd, you dismissed the whole as some kind of conspiracy theory or a political coup against your plans. First of all, we've heard such a story before. Secondly, would you not start with the figures and calculations that are there and the justified fears of many citizens and businesses that 160 euros per family will be added to your invoice because of the actions you are putting forward here, if only to get extra CO2 into the air? We will certainly not allow that to happen. That's why we're here to ask you questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u65	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the federal government is a very bad payer. Unfortunately, the situation is getting worse. Yesterday we received Graydon's latest figures. It shows the situation since 2011 of the percentage of federal government bills paid more than a month late. The graph I'm showing you speaks for itself. We see an exponential evolution in the payment of invoices. Just to fix the debate properly, the red line corresponds to the beginning of the Michel government. It can be noted that the evolution is exponentially negative and therefore disastrous. Graydon's latest report enlightens us: one third of bills are paid late and 10% are not paid at all. This is completely unacceptable. More serious, minister, who are the turkeys of this very bad joke? They are our SMEs and our independents! They are the ones who, when payments do not arrive, have direct cash flow problems, unfortunately all too often leading to bankruptcy. The UNIZO, which represents SMEs and self-employed people, is worth EUR 10 billion a year, the cost to our economy of these late payments, or 20 000 jobs! These 20,000 jobs are threatened because the federal government does not pay its bills on time. Honestly, it's totally incomprehensible to us. This situation is not acceptable, but texts exist such as the law of December 2013 and even a resolution voted in this Parliament in May 2018 and emanating from your majority N-VA, MR and Open Vld who requested to reduce these payments. Ironically, it was voted unanimously and today the situation has deteriorated further. Minister, what do you intend to do to remedy this untenable situation? Do you intend to apply the 2013 Act to the letter? Above all, do you intend to anchor the principle of payment within 30 days in the law, which is not currently the case? Finally, what do you think of an annual monitoring, an evaluation, with a debate in the House on this situation which, sincerely, is no longer tolerable?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u66	Mr President, honourable Member, thank you very much for your question and your nice graphics. If I may, I will base my answer not on a study of which I do not know the operating system but rather on FEDCOM statistics. The finding is real. It is not for nothing that the former majority has drawn up a resolution on payments. You seem to discover the problem. He's been in existence for a long time. I would like to rely on the FEDCOM statistics because they are used to carry out the accounts. Too many bills are paid late. It's a reality. When you take the global figures, it corresponds more or less to the study you mention with, however, some significant differences. The first is that the total amount due is 14% of the total amount. The second, very important, is that in this total amount of invoices paid late, the same account is taken of invoices that are paid, for example, one day late. That nuances the numbers. This amount also includes invoices that are not paid due to ongoing litigation, as well as encoding problems. Unlike your pretty chart – if you had warned me, I would have brought mine – there is relative stability on an annual basis. In recent years, there has been no increase. On the other hand, should we continue to find it acceptable that there are always late payments, even if they are fewer than you claim? Of course, the answer is no! It is for this reason that since 2018, we have implemented electronic invoicing generally, and that we adopt our instructions with the SPF BOSA regarding the accounting of these invoices to be sure that monitoring, management and monitoring are carried out as precisely as possible. We also organize meetings quite frequently with the different departments to identify problems in terms of both encoding management and monitoring. In addition, when you tabled your question, you referred to Finance and Justice. It should be noted that these two departments are not comparable because Justice is not yet part of FEDCOM. You may also know that, as Minister for Budgets, I have made a great deal of effort to ensure that Justice uses this FEDCOM programme to ensure a much more accurate follow-up of invoices. We started this program. This is not over, since we will still have to wait three years for the entire Department of Justice to be integrated into FEDCOM. This requires a long-term process. (Mr. Vanden Burre presents a diagram to the Minister)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u67	Minister, I warn you that this is not a nice graph, because it contains quite worrying figures. Having said that, we are not going to debate it now. I collected the data provided by the Graydon office, which is an independent agency, and by UNIZO. In any case, it is certain that this rate is far too high and therefore unacceptable, as you yourself said. We are not discovering the situation, since I have already asked you about it in committee over the last three years. I was referring to the resolution that was voted unanimously here, because it is somewhat ironic that the majority asked for a correction of a breach attributable to the government. More concretely, and to be constructive, I note that you have spoken about software and infrastructure. It's important. It seems to me that we could resort to legal means. Thus, to impose a maximum period of 30 days for payments seems to me to be a lead, moreover recommended by some experts. In this way, we assign a goal to be achieved. Let's discuss it every year in committee. Indeed, it is unthinkable that the State does not assume an exemplary role in payments. When SMEs and self-employed people do not honor their bills in time, they are immediately caught up. That is why it is not tolerable that, when they are to be paid, they should be kept waiting.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u68	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u69	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 285: Jef Van den Bergh, Roel Deseyn, Griet Smaers, Leen Dierick - 1925: Catherine Fonck, Benoît Lutgen, Benoît Dispa Karine Lalieux, David Geerts. I propose that a single discussion be devoted to these draft laws and proposals. I propose that you devote one discussion to these bills and bills.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u70	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Luk Van Biesen, Mr Peter Dedecker, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Georges Gilkinet and Mr Stefaan Vercamer, rapporteurs, referred to the written reports.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u71	We are discussing two sets of legal texts, which are worn very widely in the Chamber. That also makes sense to me, because they increase the freedom of choice. The unions used to come out on the street and protest at the fact that employees were paid out in receipts they were then allowed to spend in the boss' shop. They have always fought very hard against this and waged a tough social struggle. Unfortunately, because of the towering, strangling burdens on labour that have come under their rule, we are now threatening to end up with a new system with less freedom of choice. More and more of our generation's people climbing a little higher into the hierarchy are getting part of their pay in the form of a company car. If they get some storage later, they get it mostly via a larger new car, even though they don't really need it. In this way, their freedom of choice is restricted. I do not need to describe to you the ecological disaster associated with it. The present designs are a step in the right direction, because they increase the freedom of choice in this area. Am I expecting a great success here? Actually, no. Some scepticism is useful if we are to look at the mobility budget. After all, one chooses to exchange the car for a subscription to public transport, then the balance received in cash is still taxed at 38,07 %. That's still too much. The great advantage of a company car lies precisely in the fact that it also makes all of its private relocations. The system is anything but competitive. In any case, this is a step in the right direction, but further steps will be needed. I would like to list two important points. The first is a further reduction in the burden on labour, so that workers enjoy greater freedom in choosing what they want to do with their wages. That is really necessary, so that the offer of the salary car no longer remains necessary, let alone attractive. Secondly, we have to break down the typical Belgian tax fare on labour with all kinds of possible escape routes, where we now add one more, and replace it with a nice, simple new building that is clean and efficient. It must then become a kind of choice package for both the employer and the employee, a bit like the cafeteria plan, which some employers offer today. It should become a tax cafeteria plan with opportunities for more environmentally efficient extra-legal benefits and benefits to better reconcile work and family life. That will bring us much further forward than pay-cars.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u72	Vice-Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are pleased to see this project finally coming to the table of our institution. This is an important step in the field of soft mobility, which encourages the transition from a company vehicle to alternative and sustainable modes of transport. This can only improve mobility, which is known to be of great concern to workers, especially those who come to work in the capital. I'm not going to describe the system in place. I will only say that this is based on three pillars. The first is the always possible use of the company car, of course environmentally friendly. The second pillar brings together a series of alternative and sustainable modes of transport and the third is the use of the balance. The latter is less encouraged than the second. I'll come back. With this operation, the worker is completely free to choose his mode of travel. He can travel by company car, but he can also take his car to go to the station, take the train and, on the way down from the train, take a shared bike or scooter, as we see this means of transport currently appearing. Our group particularly welcomes the multitude of alternative and sustainable modes of transport included in the second pillar. This pillar is further encouraged. Indeed, it is subject to a tax deduction, whereas the third pillar is liable to a special social security contribution of 38.7%. For our group, the essential point is, of course, freedom of choice. This initiative complements the mobility allowance by expanding opportunities. This budget encourages the greening of the Belgian fleet and this was eagerly awaited by both parliamentarians and workers. Our group believes that this is a good project. So it is with enthusiasm that we will support it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u73	Mr President, we support the draft mobility budget, but we do not support the project or the proposal on the mobility allowance. It's not a surprise. With regard to the mobility project, in fact, only time lost! We told you from the outset that the famous "cash for car" system was a blond system, which did not work. The social partners did not want it. We told you. You didn't listen to us back then. The fact is that, and it is to be welcomed, you have finally considered that the social partners should be listened to. You therefore opted for the model they offered you. The mobility budget is therefore in the right direction. We will support this text. In fact, it gives a wider choice of mobility alternatives. It encourages choices that will improve mobility. This is therefore an additional step in the right direction, particularly in the context of a shared, widespread awareness of environmental and climate issues. Besides, we had not waited for the government. We ourselves had tabled a bill with a mobility budget. We've made emulations. That's something to be pleased about. Nevertheless, we are tabling three amendments. The first amendment seeks to set a limit, in order to avoid abuse and to take into account expenditure which might appear to be sumptuous. We propose to set a ceiling of EUR 35,000, which seems to us to be on average, making it possible to make considerable use of alternatives, in particular for the replacement of vehicles with less polluting vehicles. It would have been wise to retain this amendment in our committee work. That was not the case. We are resubmitting the amendment in plenary. The second amendment obliges the employer who proposes company cars to, at the same time, propose a mobility budget; while your text offers a choice. We hope that there will be automaticity. As soon as there is a company car, there is necessarily a legal obligation to propose a mobility budget. You didn't follow us. Here too, we are resubmitting an amendment. Finally, the third amendment obliges the holder of several company cars – this exists, there are people who have several company cars – to hand them over before being able to benefit from a mobility budget. Indeed, the objective of the mobility budget is to promote another mobility. There is therefore no sense in providing a budget for another mobility by keeping a company car. We should not find ourselves in a situation where people would take a mobility budget while maintaining a company car at the same time. That doesn't make any sense. We know that you, the former majority, are going to reject these amendments, if I may say so, but we can see that they continue. Nevertheless, we will support the project before us today, because it is well designed, has been drawn up in consultation with the social partners and will indeed encourage workers to use alternative, less polluting means of transport. It was on the general and fiscal aspects. There is also a social aspect in which we have identified two problems that could have been solved. The first one is a little technical, but we can synthesize it. At some point, part of the mobility budget may not be used. In that case, what do we do? How is this amount received by the worker treated, but not used for an alternative mobility? You choose the solution to apply a special contribution of 38.07 per cent that is expected to cover an average professional discount rate plus a personal social contribution. However, you exclude, while applying it, that it can finance the worker's holiday money. And that's where it's wrong! Either it is considered that the balance is a full salary and it must then contribute to the financing of all aspects of social security and open up full social rights of social security, or you open a hybrid and totally new right that does not correspond to anything known, in a word, a completely bancal right. Nothing justifies this treatment more than strange that you do not seem ready to settle! We therefore submit an amendment to ensure that this is settled and that the remaining unused budget is considered as a full salary and, therefore, to open up full social rights. This concludes my speech on the mobility budget. I move on to the mobility allowance which, according to the chronology of the work, will intervene before in terms of voting. With regard to the mobility allowance, we are more than critical. The system wasn't working. It did not work in terms of success: a handful of people had used this system. At the same time, the Council of State had identified several problems of discrimination. This was how people were to be found in the same company who would be entitled to a mobility allowance, while others were not. Instead of removing this measure to focus on the mobility budget, you preferred to maintain the mobility allowance. Let's be clear! Several objectives are based on a certain ideology in order to transform taxed or parafiscalized wages, which finance social security and public services - from which people generally benefit - and open up social rights, into defiscalized and deparafiscalized compensation. We know that this is the main objective of some: to be able to give workers amounts which are outside the labour market. I invite those who think this is a good idea to think about, because it is a slippery slope on which some are trying to take us. On the other hand, we must imagine the incongruity of what is being put in place. Indeed, the mobility allowance is not just going to be granted to people who have a company car, but to others who fall into a category that could qualify for it. It's completely aberrant. That is why we will not support this text. We sincerely believe that we should have focused on the mobility budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u74	Mr President, it will not surprise you that I am very pleased today with the final vote on the draft law on the mobility budget before us. The draft was finally presented to Parliament by Ministers De Block, De Croo and Peeters, for which I would like to thank them. However, it is appropriate to mention the merits of the previous Minister of Finance, Johan Van Overtveldt, in this regard, as he has helped prepare the draft bill. Let me start by kicking in an open door: from a mobility point of view, it is clear that the current system of commercial vehicles, especially when it comes to purely wage-earning vehicles, does not fit in with the aim of achieving more sustainable mobility. The simplest answer is to stop doing so, but of course it is not that simple, at least if we do not want to reduce wages from the workers concerned. The status of the company car is part of a broader debate on labour costs, as Mr Dedecker has already mentioned. The company car is one of the elements in the remuneration of a large part of the employees, mainly servants. To touch on the status of commercial vehicles means to make adjustments to social security, tax, business and labour law agreements. That is why there is a need for a strong, realistic, but also attractive alternative to the company car that can exist alongside the current system. The present mobility budget is also a positive alternative, which does not result from the claim that one means of transport is destructive and that everyone has to take another means of transport. It is driven by a flexible concept in which the employee no longer hangs on to the company car as part of his wage, but in which his mobility can also be filled in in another way. With the mobility budget, the employee will be able to make a conscious choice from now on, and that is important: that relocation is no longer an automatism, but something for which a conscious choice has to be made. That was the starting point when we began to reflect on this issue. The first conversations I had with employees about it date from about 12 years ago. From the observation that commercial cars play an important role in our mobility problems, but also from the observation that these cars are part of the wage package, we started a search for alternatives. At first, the mobility budget remained a vague idea, without having any concrete meaning in mind. We often conflicted with the complexity of the regulation when it was being developed, especially from a mobility background. By looking at mobility glasses, it was not always so easy to untangle the inscrutable fiscal and parafiscal nodes throughout the system. By 2009 we were gradually developing a concept. However, when I presented that concept at a group meeting at the time, after a few minutes, the idea was referred to the trash can by an experienced rot within our party, with all due respect. By the way, those experienced rot was not Mr Van Rompuy for the sake of clarity. The person in question said and I quote: "You don't want to give the impression that you're going to mess with the company cars a few months before the Flemish elections?" As if I had gone completely mad, that impression was given to me. We then took the time to do so. We have changed the shoulder and introduced the idea of the mobility budget through a broader vision paper. In the years following, some important initiatives were taken which led to this draft law being discussed today. I refer, for example, to the pilot project launched in 2012 by the Flemish Government, under the impetus of the then Minister for Mobility Crevits. A mobility budget was then tested in several companies in Flemish Brabant. This showed that both employers and employees were willing to question their mobility, provided it was practical, easy to organise and interesting for all parties. The car use of the employees in the participating companies quickly fell to 37%, which is a fairly spectacular decrease. I have to say, however, that these were companies in very traffic-sensitive areas. Supported by these results and fueled with that extra know-how, my then colleague from the Flemish Parliament Griet Smaers and I from our federal group presented our first proposal on the mobility budget to interested parties and experts on a study day on 5 November 2013. This ultimately led to the proposal as we submitted it in the Chamber, bringing the mobility budget both literally and figuratively on the political agenda. So it's been a long time. It took a lot of time. In the meantime, the mobility budget has not been such an innovative concept for a long time. In the social dialogue, and especially in mobility circles, on mobility forums, it has now become an established concept. Many employers and workers have become creative over the last few years to fill in their mobility in other ways. More and more companies have already developed a kind of mobility budget for their employees in recent years. I am thinking of applications such as Railease and bicycle leasing, the multimodal payment card XXImo, commercial cars with a folding bike in the trunk, Mobility as a Service. Those are not empty concepts anymore for a long time. They have gradually become negotiating instruments in the war on talent, especially for the young generation, especially for companies in the most sensitive areas, especially for workers living in an urban environment where there is hardly any parking space left or where 150 euros per month has to be paid to park that piece of pay somewhere or put it in a garage. However, until now there has been no clear legal, fiscal and parafiscal framework. It requires a lot of creativity in the grey areas of the existing regulation to develop a form of mobility budget per company. This is something that really large companies, such as Proximus, managed to achieve very good results with the introduction of the mobility budget, but also many other companies that have experimented with it. The general principles of the draft law on which we are about to vote have remained clear and unchanged throughout those 12 years. Budget neutrality was a starting point. This has always been the starting point for the government, the employer and the employee, no additional financial burden for the employer, no financial disadvantage for the employee and as much budget-neutral as possible for the government. The employer decides whether or not to offer the mobility budget within the company and the system should remain workable for everyone. The employee who is entitled to it will be given the choice of whether or not to step in. If he does so, he will be given more flexibility to assemble his mobility à la carte, depending on his own needs. A combination of bike, train, bus, subsystems, etc. is perfectly possible. Multimodality at the top, depending on the needs and expectations at a certain time. Whoever needs a company car within that package can continue to do so. In addition, this draft law also focuses on the greening of the fleet. If we want to keep a car within the budget, we can do so, provided that the car meets certain environmental requirements. Closeness was also included in the draft law. Those who move close to work can contribute part of their housing costs to the mobility budget, where close proximity means that it is the five-km cycling distance that can be achieved for everyone. The remaining amount is paid once a year as a wage to the employee and the social contribution paid on it ensures that it builds up social rights. Colleagues, it may sound a little complex, unusual and complicated. Is this gonna work? I'm pretty optimistic about that. Of course, there will be a transitional period. Current lease contracts will not just be cancelled, but both the business world and the mobility sector are ready to implement this bill quickly. Numerous start-ups launch innovative ideas that will make our mobility smarter, better and cleaner. You can find and unlock a part step via apps. You can pay for train tickets on your phone. One can reserve a bike at the station for those last kilometers. If there is an incident on the road, the app calculates an alternative route in real time. Several companies at home and abroad are developing within the new sector of Mobility as a Service. This will make mobility a service and no longer a car in front of you. Through a subscription one can create, organize and pay for one's mobility à la carte. MaaS apps are, as it were, the Netflix of mobility, which will allow you to choose the most suitable means of transport at any time. This bill will provide a huge boost for this new mobility sector. We are already aware that MaaS players from all over Europe are looking with great interest at the impact that the introduction of the mobility budget will have on the application of such multimodal mobility solutions. It is, of course, important that we monitor, evaluate and, if necessary, adjust this as a government. It is, of course, very important that the mobility budget can be managed in a simple manner for effective implementation on the widest possible scale. That's what's gonna happen to those apps. The KB is already ready to put its simple application into practice. It lies with the Council of State which will deliver its opinion as soon as the legal framework, i.e. the draft law before it, is adopted by the Chamber. The practical arrangements with which companies will have to work will be made known on a convenient website, we are promised. When all that is done, I really think that the government, together with innovative players, will offer a flexible and sustainable alternative to the company car. This breaks through the still too common automation in our mobility and makes a nice step towards multimodal, more sustainable and healthier mobility in our country. I do not want to conclude without thanking a number of people who have contributed in recent years to the establishment of the legislation. It's always a little dangerous to mention names. I mentioned Mrs Smaers, but I would also like to mention specialists Veerle and Koen, Kathelijne and Kenneth for their pioneering work. Thank you also to Kris Peeters, who, at crucial moments in the government, had to make a serious effort to continue with this draft. I would also like to thank the members of the group and Mr Lachaert for the many constructive discussions we have had on the subject and for joining the party and for all those who have worked on the draft and who will soon press the green headline.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u75	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our group is delighted to be here today with these two texts. One is about the mobility allowance and the other is about the mobility budget. Mr Van den Bergh and other colleagues have already outlined the history of these texts. It is Mr Van den Bergh who, for the first time, produced a text on the mobility budget in the previous legislature. At the beginning of this legislature, the development of a mobility budget is also included in the federal government agreement. Then it became quiet in this file for a while and that had to do with the fear that many colleagues had of starting to mess with the system of commercial vehicles. Mr Van den Bergh just said that he should also have a debate in his own group on the just before the elections with a debate on commercial cars. I have also had that debate in my group. It's not obvious. We all know that we would not rethink the system of commercial vehicles today. This was once caused by the high burden on labour in our country, which there are. Today there is a situation in which hundreds of thousands of workers in our country receive this as part of their wage package. If we are to attack or remove that today, as some parties say rather easily, then we must know very well what we are doing. We will then really break into people's wages and ensure that they have less net wages from one month to the next. This is not only detrimental to the income of those workers, but also to the whole family, which calls on that car. This is also detrimental to, for example, single mothers who have negotiated with their employer that car, which they need to take the children to the sports association or to school. It is not desirable, it is not realistic and it is not fair that we should take it from one day to the next. They break into existing employment contracts or agreements. If we do something about this, it is a positive alternative choice for people. That is the way we have always looked at this dossier, together with the colleagues who have contributed to it. The bad thing about the story of the company cars was that there was no alternative that was parafiscal and fiscal equally interesting. One had to be almost crazy not to accept a car offered by the employer because no alternative could be offered where one receives the same net benefit. With the introduction of the mobility allowance, the so-called cash for car, and now with the mobility budget, we offer two great alternatives for everyone. The mobility allowance came first, but I would like to correct those who want to speak of its failure right away. There was a reasoning behind why one did not immediately open the door wide for a massive use of the mobility allowance. When that draft was introduced, there was a risk that if one could replace a car with net cash, employers would reduce gross wages and give net money instead of a car, which would be negative for state revenue and RSZ revenues. A large pillar of the dossier has always been our concern to ensure budget-neutral measures, not only for employers and employees, but also for the public authorities. If we had opened the door to cash for car too wide from the beginning, there was a risk that employers and employees would have made wage optimisation. So we started with caution in the file. Today, with the present draft, we will be relaxing the system, because we find that it is being used too little. So far, twelve months had to have driven the car before it could be converted. That was an anti-fraud measure, a measure against the optimisation technique. Now it is enough to enter a category of workers or jobs where they are entitled to a car. It is therefore no longer necessary to drive a car for 12 months before it can be converted into a mobility allowance; the right to cash for car is applied immediately. In itself, this is an interesting system for those who decide to live close to work. During the hearings in Parliament, the Bond Beter Leefenvironment showed that the system is indeed interesting for those who move closer to their work, because they can exchange the car for extra net income. That is a good thing, because the ecological footprint of a non-movement is still much smaller than that of a movement by train. That is why we certainly want to encourage living closer to work. In my view, the mobility budget, which the employee gets on top of it, will not miss its impact, especially in view of the preparations of many companies. If large companies with thousands of employees introduce a mobility budget system, it will of course have a very large multiplier effect. Thousands of employees can enter that system immediately. As a result of the tight labour market, many large companies engaged in a confused for talent make work of their own mobility policy, because workers do not like to be stuck in traffic with their company car. Deloitte, which was based in Diegem, has now moved with all its employees to Zaventem's Tarmac, close to a train station, has introduced a mobility budget and can now make this more fiscally interesting for its employees under the proposed legislation. A lot of entrepreneurs are working on that. The tool of the mobility budget, which we give them with the proposed texts, will have a strengthening effect, and I expect a great deal of it, like Mr Van den Bergh. Many people have often wanted to make a contradiction between those in favour of a mobility allowance and those in favour of a mobility budget. I can tell you that our group and certainly myself have always argued for both, including at government level. After all, I see perfectly the complementarity of both systems. For a small SME, which looks forward to managing all that, cash for car might be more interesting. For a larger company that wants to organise it all itself, the mobility budget will undoubtedly be the most interesting tool. The pillars have been announced. Take a look at our proposals which we made two or three years ago and which restarted the debate on the mobility budget. Our proposals are based on a number of pillars. A pillar is the cash-for-car scheme. A second pillar is the mobility budget. Both systems are ahead of this now. The third pillar is the greening of commercial vehicles, which was also included in the opinion of the social partners. I am therefore very pleased that we were able to explain that proposal yesterday in the Committee on Social Affairs. Maybe we can work on that over the next few weeks. I hope that those Members who will be lucky enough to be here again will be able to work with us on the implementation of the third pillar in the new coalition agreement in the next legislature. A fourth pillar in our proposals is sometimes forgotten, although it is an important point. In the long term, we should come up with a system whereby all the farms have been abolished. In my view, this can only happen in the case of the company car and the mobility budget if a mobility budget is increased for everyone. If we do not want to redistribute those who have a car today and those who do not have that car today, then the social partners in the wage agreements they conclude will gradually increase a mobility budget for everyone. In many joint committees, collective agreements on the relocation of work have been agreed. They should form the basis for the growth of a mobility budget for all. Moreover, if one can increase the mobility budget for everyone to the value of a middle class car, it can be compensated by a reduction in the burden of wages, and that will not result in one worker winning and the other losing, but that will be an additional advantage for everyone. That is the only way to make the pay car go away in the long term in a fair way and without losing people's wages, even though it will take many years. The only alternative is to expropriate workers, reduce them and thus make them lose their wages, but we do not choose to do so. We choose the positive path, which is to offer additional freedom of choice to each employee to trade the car, together with his employer, for wages or for a mobility budget. That is the right path. We will approve the two designs with great enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u76	Mr President, over the last few years, we have been discussing the link between the number of pay cars and traffic jams, the mobility aspect, on the one hand, and the climate, on the other hand, the climate aspect, which is more topical today than ever before, in order to demonstrate the demonstrations of young people every Thursday in the streets of Brussels. In addition, we have always referred to the impact of the salary car on public tax liability due to its tax deductibility, amounting to EUR 4.5 billion per year. Last year alone we stood 925 000 hours on the Flemish roads. In 2017, that was 913 000 hours. The economic cost of this standstill is estimated at 2% of gross domestic product. Then there is the system of commercial vehicles, we are actually talking better about salary cars, where we notice an enormous increase in the number of newly registered commercial vehicles every year. If all this is put aside, it is more than right that we should vote here today on a nod in that policy. The mobility budget is an important step forward to look wider than just the salary wagons. Young workers, between 20 and 29 years of age, see the tendency to move closer to work, but on the other hand, they are the ones who, in the debate on wages, put the company car/salary car forward as a wage condition. That's paradoxical. For the future, the system of pay-cars should actually be abolished. There must be a reduction in the number of tax warehouses. It is important that this happens without any loss of pay. I understand we can't do this overnight. Such a system cannot be introduced just before the elections. Such a system should be introduced in different steps. However, the change should take place. Then I come to the aspect of the mobility allowance, the cash for cars. We said during the discussion that we think it would be a poor system. Today, about 320 people entered that system. For us, it was more logical to vote today on its abolition. People talk about freedom of choice, but I think it is going to be too difficult for a number of companies. With regard to the mobility budget itself, I have a few comments to make, which I regret are not included. That's how there's the numbing mechanism. This was put forward during the explanations of, among other things, the Bond Better Environment. Shouldn't there be a time frame for the extinction of this system? It would have been good to provide for an evaluation of the current legislation in this text. In that way, we could really think about that in the next legislative period. I come to another aspect. If we are to achieve a modal shift, we must provide a mobility budget for all workers, not just for those who currently have a company car. This, of course, implies a shift from tax deductibility to, for example, investing more in public transport. We will vote in favour of the mobility budget, but we believe that the mobility allowance should have been abolished. We shall therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u77	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this debate on company cars is essential for several reasons:- it is essential in the search for more tax justice. It is now clear that the holders of the largest company cars are also the highest wage earners; - it is also essential in the context of State financing and social security, since company cars have a huge cost in terms of public subsidies - deductibility to corporate tax, non-taxation of wages, non-payment of social contributions on the advantage of the company car; - it is essential in the context of the search for a more fluid mobility. Our country is one of the most bottled in Europe. The Belgians spend thousands of hours in traffic jams, which has economic consequences which amount to billions of euros each year, according to the estimates of the FEB. There is also the context for the fight against cardiovascular diseases caused by fine particulates from diesels, particularly in our cities. I will finally mention the context of the struggle for the preservation of the planet, to prevent its warming going beyond 1.5 °C by CO2 emissions, which are also those of cars that use fossil fuels. Let's be positive! Today, with the discussion on this mobility budget, the taboo of company cars is finally broken. But we are only at the beginning of a path that will have to be pursued in the course of the next legislature and perhaps the following, on the basis, Mr Minister, of a serious and regular assessment of the effects of the legislation that we are going to vote on today. First of all, the aim is to drastically reduce the number of cars in circulation in our country and elsewhere and thus also drastically reduce the number of company cars in circulation, leaving them only to the workers who need them to carry out their professional duties and fulfil their employment contracts. Another objective is to propose various and complementary less polluting alternatives to these company cars: - more comfortable, regular public transport with a greater amplitude; - shared cars; - mobility plans at company level; - the use of electric or non-electric bicycles and any other means of mobility; - the creation of mobility cards which are already available to workers. Mr Van den Bergh, Mr Lachaert, as you said, there is a potential for developing a new mobility economy that can create jobs, make us both more mobile and have a less impact on our environment. These are quite exciting prospects. The third objective is an even more fundamental revision of the company car system than today. It is an objective to reduce the cost of work, while preserving workers' rights and the financing of social security, through alternative mechanisms to those which are now based solely on labour contributions. That's the goal. Indeed, today, a first step will be taken, after a missed departure. The "Cash for car" project was, and still is, misconceived, because it does not respect social consultation. It is ineffective and it is a failure: today, only a few hundred workers have abandoned their company car for cash. It is also dangerous for the future financing of social security. It simply deserves to be left out rather than artificially prolonged, or even made more dangerous by the changes you propose. We believe that it is a real Trojan horse of the definancing of social security. It creates routes of defiance that do not meet the objective of better mobility or less impact on the environment at all. There is no sense in letting it coexist with the other text, which is the mobility budget. Mr Minister, we have argued in committee for the abandonment of the Cash for Car, to close this parenthesis. At the time of the analysis of the text in its first version, we had requested a hearing from the social partners. They had explained to us that they had a better alternative than the Cash for Car, which was developed within the National Labour Council. It is now coming back to the table; it is this mobility budget. Why not have the simplicity and the common sense to abandon the Cash for Car and focus on the mobility budget which, as we have said, is a much better text? During the analysis of the text on "Cash for car", we had also tabled the text of the CNT in the form of an amendment. This is a much more convincing test, not only because it comes from social consultation, but also because it actually envisages a form of multi-mobility, with the possibility for workers of an alternative to their company car, the possibility of keeping a company car, but with a lesser impact on the environment. This also creates development opportunities for economic mobility sectors. Is the text perfect, though? We don't think so. It retains certain weaknesses in relation to which we have tabled amendments. First of all, it is not ambitious enough about the impact on CO2 emissions and fine particulates of cars that will remain in circulation tomorrow. A gradual reduction in this impact should have been foreseen. The exceptions proposed in the text to the possibility of purchasing end-of-series cars show that the primary objective is neither environmental nor public health. Secondly, the text is not ambitious in relation to this new possibility, which is left to transform this mobility allowance into a housing allowance that can be granted if you live less than five kilometres from your place of work. It seemed to us that ten kilometres were a much more interesting distance. This is obviously an element that can evolve over time, depending on the evaluation that will be made of the text. In addition, the text is also problematic in our view as regards the tax treatment of the third pillar, i.e. the amount of money left to workers after taking into account the car they retain and the expenditure they make on mobility. For us, this third pillar should be seen simply as a wage that generates the payment of social contributions, taxes and fees, all in the context of an overall reflection on the cost of labour. Moreover, the text does not contain enough anti-abuse measures. Today, some workers benefit from two company cars. Personally, I tried but I never managed to drive two cars at the same time. In the future, these workers will be able to benefit from both the mobility budget and a company car under another employment contract. It's hard to understand. It would have been interesting to take advantage of this text to remove this anomaly. Finally, this text is totally inadequate in that it does not allow the federal state to assess by monitoring this system of company cars which costs billions of euros each year to public finances and which has the impacts that I have described. Today, no minister can tell us, even the Minister of Finance, how many company cars are in circulation, what is their type of motorization, what is their impact on CO2, what is their exact cost to public finances. To assess this impact, we need to rely on studies carried out by private offices. We have proposed, by means of an amendment, that this monitoring be assured from now on and that the FPS Finances publish annually a state of affairs which would allow us, as legislators, to make the most sensible choices as to the budgetary, fiscal and environmental impact of these company cars. We have resubmitted these amendments in order to correct the shortcomings of the text. We shall put them to your vote in this plenary session. If it is not today that we can convince you, it will be tomorrow that we will have to act. You can count on our determination to continue to evolve this issue. It seems to us that the ideal system would be to offer every worker, regardless of their status or company, the benefit of a debilitated mobility allowance to make use of various non-polluting collective mobility services, including the help of completely innovative companies. The company car would only be offered to workers who need it in the exercise of their professional duties. This system would be both fairer, more efficient in terms of mobility, greener and more responsive to the environmental challenges that we need to tackle. We will certainly come back with this issue in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u78	Mr President, I shall speak on the two texts submitted to our vote. They pursue the same objective but with very different degrees of success. Their concomitance allows some to see the beautiful complementarity between the two formulas and for the others, of which I am, to see a form of inconsistency. This is a two-stroke engine that produces some failures. Among these failures, there is the text on mobility allowance. From the beginning, he appears to be a mess. All apprehensions with respect to this formula have been confirmed. This cash-for-car formula was praised at the time by Minister Didier Reynders but, from the outset, objections were raised by the social partners, by the Council of State, by the opposition in the committees which examined the text. All this has not convinced the government to change its strategy. However, on arrival, the flop was confirmed: 372 cases were identified. We are very far from the stated objectives, which were already extremely modest. On the other hand, the mobility budget can be welcomed more favourably. The cdH group will vote for it, unlike the mobility allowance. This text gives a wider incentive to make sustainable mobility choices, much more than the mobility allowance. The cdH group had put forward a proposal based on this philosophy. It focused on a quality of life budget, since mobility is linked to the organisation of daily life. The philosophy was the same since it was about opening up the tax advantage of corporate cars to a much wider range of possibilities. Finally, as Mr. Piedboeuf said earlier in his intervention, one may wonder why so much has been dragged and why time has been wasted trying to maintain, against winds and tides, the intermediate measure. The question can still be asked today. The mobility allowance was a bad compromise. Today, it needs to be corrected by a bill that is consistent. Why did you imagine this formula when, from the outset, the social partners had announced their willingness to implement a genuine mobility budget and to work on a text worthy of the name? The draft law on the mobility budget goes in the right direction as it offers a system respectful of the diversity of choices of each, a system based on three pillars: the more environmentally friendly car, the spending on alternative modes of transport or the balance of the budget in cash. It goes in the right direction, but it certainly does not end or exhaust the debate on mobility, pollution, health or the type of beneficiary. Indeed, the mobility budget with total maintenance of the advantage for company cars is unlikely to change the number of company cars and will have a positive impact on mobility, traffic jams and the environment only as pillar 1 will leave room, employees will decide to allocate this margin to pillar 2 rather than pillar 3. It is therefore to be hoped that the persons concerned will opt for the combination of the car with other means of transport. However, there is an objective fear that this phenomenon may be marginal. We have not received an impact assessment from the government to endorse the objective in terms of mobility and there is concern that the number of company cars will continue to increase, as is currently the case. As a reminder, in 2017, 292,734 new company cars were registered. This is an increase of more than 3.2% over the previous year. There is therefore a form of drift which must be corrected at all costs and the text submitted to our vote will perhaps contribute to this, but certainly not in a structural and sufficiently significant way. Furthermore, the debates in committee have revealed a number of difficulties, in our view insufficiently resolved, relating to abuses, readability and budgetary impact. I would point out that the Belgian Federation of Enterprises recommends merging the systems in place to move towards a single, simpler and more transparent system. It is therefore necessary to put the work back on the job. I hope that, in due course, this review can be based on an assessment of the measures put in place. That is what we are asking for. We call for a strict assessment of the two measures so that they can be verified and corrective measures can be made with better knowledge. In conclusion, the mobility budget is a first step in the right direction, that of diversifying the tax advantage for company cars. That is why we will support this text. But I would remind you that our vote will be negative with regard to the text on the mobility allowance.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u79	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill amending the mobility allowance is now before Parliament for vote. It amends certain provisions relating to the mobility allowance which, it should be noted, introduces the possibility for workers who have a company car to return it against a mobility allowance. The status of this sum of money will be as advantageous as that of the company car. However, it should be borne in mind that the extra-wage benefits granted by the Belgian State to company vehicles are detrimental not only to the environment but also to the health of citizens. Indeed, the impact of infrastructure on natural environments, the worsening of global warming, as well as local air pollution, cause significant health problems for the population as a whole. The combined increase in the number of vehicles in use and the number of kilometres travelled inevitably leads to an increase in fuel consumption and ultimately to an increase in emissions of CO2 and fine particulate matter, which are particularly harmful to health. According to information from the Federal Planning Office, the provision of a company car involves almost exclusive use of the car as a means of transport for the journey between home and work, as well as more frequent use of the car for private travel. It is estimated that a company car holder would travel nearly 6,000 kilometres more than another person who does not have a company vehicle. This increase in the number of kilometres travelled therefore contributes actively to the steady increase in congestion of urban traffic, but also to the increase in air pollution. The favourable tax regime for corporate cars is also a tax niche that, in our group's view, should be reformed and, in the long term, eliminated. Indeed, according to an OECD study in September 2014 covering 27 countries, Belgium holds the absolute record for average annual subsidies for company cars. These subsidies amount to almost €2,800. Few significant legislative changes have taken place since then. I am therefore afraid that this amount will be substantially the same today. However, these considerations are not new. Already in 2009, the Conseil Supérieur des Finances reasoned: "We must gradually move towards the abolition of company cars, and align the taxation of benefits of all kinds with that of wages, both in the employer's head and in the employee's head." More than ten years after these recommendations, my group notes with regret that this extra-salarial advantage has not yet been changed. When we learn, through FEBIAC figures, that the sale of one in two vehicles in Belgium is a company vehicle, it is more than important to react. The aim of introducing a mobility allowance to reduce the number of vehicles on the road network is commendable and ambitious. Our group shares it. However, it should be recalled that Belgium has committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 40% before 2030. This is an important deadline, but you seem to forget another one: Belgium is committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 15% by 2020, just under a year from now. According to a Council of the European Union recommendation report on Belgium's reform and stability programme, however, Belgium should not achieve this objective if it does not tackle "high-speed congestion, improving public transport services, optimising traffic management, eliminating market distortions and harmful tax incentives such as favourable treatment for company cars". The Council continues by stating – which is quite worrying – that "despite the fact that this government intends to change the system of company cars, the positive effects of this reform on the environment are likely to be limited". I would also like to focus on the budgetary consequences of the use of company cars. First of all, my group points out that – and this is quite paradoxical in a country that so subsidizes the use of a car – we have no clear and precise information on the total number of company cars in circulation in Belgium. Some organizations report that there are 670,000 vehicles and others, almost 450,000. There is, however, a certain fact: the underestimation of this extra-salarial advantage represents a considerable annual loss of profits for the Belgian State. According to estimates by the Federal Office of the Plan, the annual social cost of this advantageous tax system would exceed 900 million euros. At a time when the MR/N-VA government apparently and according to the information provided, is leaving a deficit of EUR 7.7 billion, it would be opportune (the suggestion of our group) to turn to a fundamental reform of this fiscal niche. My group would like to point out that the Council of State has serious doubts as regards the reduction of traffic congestion on the road network because the introduction of a mobility allowance is "an adequate means of achieving the objective of sustainable mobility". This consideration is, moreover, not isolated. Indeed, it is also shared within the Mobility FPS itself, which provides that only between 3% and 9% of households would be willing to exchange their company car for a sum of money. The same observation is made on the part of the National Labour Council (CNT), which, in its first opinion of 21 February 2018, states that the mobility allowance as an isolated instrument alone will not be sufficient to solve all mobility problems, but that it is necessary to combine several tools within an integrated sustainable mobility policy. The CNT thus refers to the mobility budget, which is welcomed more favourably by the social partners. In its second opinion of 25 September 2018, the National Labour Council states that these two new measures – mobility allowance and mobility budget – must be budget neutral, in order to ensure the balance of ONSS overall management. The introduction of a mobility allowance and, at the same time, a mobility budget therefore does not seem to be consistent. For DéFI, the first should therefore be deleted. On the other hand, the latter has the merit of being much simpler and, above all, better able to meet the objective of reducing traffic congestion. With regard to the mobility allowance, the worker completely renounces his company vehicle, in return for a certain sum. The mobility budget is, for its part, a much better instrument in that it allows workers to opt for a company car that is more environmentally friendly and/or cheaper, by combining it with other sustainable modes of transport, such as bicycles, shared cars and, today, scooters. The choice left to the workers therefore makes it possible to envisage mobility in a different way, in a sustainable, multimodal way, but also and above all more respectful of the environment. Finally, according to a study by SD Worx, there are not so many commuters with a company car and interested in a mobility allowance: 46% would in fact opt for the car as a mode of travel. In other words, the introduction of a mobility allowance would lead mainly to the replacement of the use of one company vehicle by that of another in a private capacity. DeFI therefore does not see how this allowance aims to reduce the number of vehicles in use and, ultimately, traffic congestion. Ladies and gentlemen, as you will understand, our group will not support the bill to introduce a mobility allowance, because we are very concerned that it will not lead to a significant reduction in the number of company cars on our roads and that, as a result, its first objective is not lacking: the substantial reduction of traffic congestion. On the other hand, for the reasons set out above, our group will support the bill to introduce a mobility budget.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u80	First of all, I would like to express my thanks for the broad cooperation in the creation of the two drafts. Many Members have worked together for this. The social partners were also involved. I would also like to thank the government and certainly my predecessor, Johan van Overtveldt, who carried the bulk of the work. Many things have already been discussed here. I believe that the mobility allowance and the mobility budget are aimed at two very different target groups and that it is therefore normal that the two should continue to exist side by side. There is no contradiction between these two, they are just meant for two different target groups. As has already been pointed out, they offer a flexibility in remuneration, which one finally dares to deal with. Instead of always dealing with wages in a cramped way, we are now giving more opportunities in terms of remuneration, opportunities that are fully in line with the multitude of mobility opportunities available today. In the area of mobility, there is an unlikely amount of innovation. The flexibility we are now creating gives us a very important boost in the area of mobility innovation. I believe that this is a good thing for our country and for our society. I would just like to make it clear that the amendment to the mobility allowance is merely aimed at aligning access to the system with that for the mobility budget. I would like to thank everyone for their hard work on the two draft laws, which I believe are very important and which have a very broad support in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u81	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u82	We shall begin by discussing the articles of Bill No. 3382 . The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3382/7) We shall now proceed to the discussion of the articles of Bill No. 3382 [[.]] The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3382/7) The title was changed by the Committee to "draft law amending certain provisions relating to the mobility allowance." The title has been amended by the committee in "Bill amending certain provisions relating to mobility allowance". The draft law has 12 articles. The bill has 12 clauses.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u83	No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u84	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. We shall begin the discussion of the articles. of Bill No. 3381 . The text adopted by the committees is the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3381/8) We're going to discuss the articles. Bill No. 3381 [[.]] The text adopted by the committees serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3381/8) The draft law has 27 articles. The bill has 27 articles. * * * * * * *
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u85	· 1 – Ahmed Laaouej cs (3381/9) • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 6 • Kristof Calvo cs (3381/9) • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 7 • Kristof Calvo cs (3381/9) • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 8 O.K. Kristof Calvo cs (3381/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u86	· 2... Ahmed Laaouej cs (3381/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u87	· 3... Ahmed Laaouej cs (3381/9) • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 9 O.K. Kristof Calvo cs (3381/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u88	· 10 – Evita Willaert cs (3381/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u89	· 11 – Evita Willaert cs (3381/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u90	· 12 – Evita Willaert cs (3381/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u91	· 4 – Ahmed Laaouej cs (3381/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u92	· 5... Ahmed Laaouej cs (3381/9) Chapter IV/1(n) - Chapitre IV/1(n) • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 13 O. Kristof Calvo cs (3381/9)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u93	****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u94	Held: the vote on the amendments and Rules 3, 4, 10, 19, 21, 22 and 23. Reserved: the vote on amendments and articles 3, 4, 10, 19, 21, 22 and 23. Article adopted by article: Articles 1, 2, 5 to 9, 11 to 18, 20 and 24 to 27. Adopted article by article: articles 1, 2, 5-9, 11-18, 20 and 24-27. ****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u95	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Catherine Fonck.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u96	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mrs Nathalie Muylle, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u97	Colleagues, this text is intended to limit the allocation of INAMI numbers for doctors and dentists trained abroad. Before I turn to the substance of the subject, I would like to reiterate here the value of being able to study abroad, in part or in a more global way, whether in the European Union or on a more international scale, for caregivers particularly since this is the subject of this proposal. I've had it myself. This interest is of great importance, but it cannot be transformed into a backward discrimination for our young doctors and dentists, nor into a blow to the future of our health care system. I have been mobilizing for years in the face of what I consider to be a total absurdity, but also an unacceptable inequity. In my view, it is totally absurd to limit the number of future Belgian doctors and dentists, while at the same time the number of doctors and dentists trained abroad – in any case as far as the European Union is concerned – is in no way limited. The examples are instructive. I'll only mention two of them. In 2015, there were more INAMI numbers assigned to internationally trained physicians and dentists than to doctors and dentists trained in Francophone universities. It's inquisitive, inequitable, absurd. The French Community is more concerned, the situation is more problematic. But equally telling examples exist in the Flemish Community: in 2015, 35% of dentists who obtained an INAMI number in the Flemish Community came from other EU states. In the same year, in the French Community, 51% of dentists who had obtained an INAMI number had been trained abroad and more particularly within the European Union. As you can see, the door is completely open to European doctors and dentists with almost automatic delivery of an INAMI number, even though our Belgian doctors and dentists are quotaed. This is, therefore, an unacceptable step backwards discrimination. It makes no sense to continue quotaing our doctors and dentists if we leave the door open to foreign doctors and dentists, especially Europeans. The Planning Commission, which you all know, has itself validated the need to quota doctors and dentists trained abroad or, she said, "the quota of Belgians would no longer make any sense". This must, of course, be done in accordance with European law. In this regard, I would simply like to refer to the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Constitutional Court. I have not only had the opportunity to make it clear in detail at the level of developments in the bill and the text, but also to present it in committee. Mr President, I propose that these various elements should not be taken up for longer here, in the context of our debate in plenary. The various arguments put forward in the text show and demonstrate that we do not infringe the right to free movement. I repeat, it is a matter of limiting this right in a proportionate manner while pursuing a legitimate objective of protecting public health and preserving health policies in the medium and long term. If I say that, ladies and gentlemen, it is because the uncontrolled influx of doctors and dentists trained abroad can exacerbate the shortage of Belgian doctors and dentists. Let us recall here that the Planning Commission takes into account the flow of these foreign doctors and dentists. As a result, there will be an impact on the calculations made by the Planning Commission to determine public health needs. As the number of doctors and dentists trained abroad increases, the more the Planning Commission, by integrating them, will have to reduce the number of INAMIs available for all Belgian doctors and dentists who have graduated. This may lead to or increase a shortage in the event that such caregivers return to their country of origin. The decision we make today will allow us to give oxygen and release INAMI numbers for our young Belgian doctors and dentists. It is therefore an indispensable step. I hope, moreover, that the minister in charge will quickly take over the royal decrees of execution. I would also like to thank the various colleagues who supported the proposal in committee. Finally, you will allow me to address the issue of subquotas. Indeed, this dossier cannot only be examined under the magnifying glass of this bill. This is a much broader issue in order to ensure the coverage and future of health care. In this regard, there are shortages for certain specialties in certain regions or communes. These shortages, whether they concern general practitioners or certain specialties such as ophthalmology or dermatology for which waiting times are particularly long, require multiple responses, such as having a sufficient number of trained doctors and dentists or working at the subquota level, which has been achieved. More importantly, universities - and as such, the last figure in 2018 was extremely positive - must respect the subquotas set for general practitioners and also work on the attractiveness of general practitioners and specialists (geriatricians, paediatricians, etc.) through the nomenclature, promotion to the installation but also throughout the organization of the guards. I also find it interesting, ladies and gentlemen, to get out of the ping-pong game quite sterile and to try to get out from the top of the debates we have seen in recent years, to organise a common entrance examination, each in its own language of course. This would make it possible not to accuse, often wrongly, of a lax examination. Let's recognize him! It is true that the figure can call for the first year of bachelor's in 2018 on the francophone side. At the same time, it is also rational to recognize that only 20% of students have passed this entrance examination, which corresponds to a percentage similar to that of the Flemish Community. Finally, you will not be mad at me to support our young medical and dental students who will graduate in June. An interdepartmental conference recently addressed this issue. A solution must be found quickly. These young people cannot be the victims of political policies or decisions. It is between policies that solutions will have to be found, and it is not these young people who have to pay for them. I hope that this proposal will be implemented very soon through the royal decrees of execution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my group will support this proposal because we are also dealing with a large influx of foreign doctors on our side of the language line. It is therefore logical that quota quotas and quotas should be taken into account. For the sake of clarity, I should like to point out that this is already the case today. The Planning Committee already takes account of this inflow in its calculation of the number. It is better and more logical to limit the inflow in the same way so that there will be no distortion in the future. I would add, however, that this is actually a somewhat cynical or even hypocritical discussion on the other side of the language line. I welcome this bill and I will support it, but it is funny to hear that it is being introduced especially on French-speaking demand. The main reason for this is that the quota system is causing a huge deficit. I do not know how many times I have to contradict this, but it is difficult to cope with deficits as a result of something that has never been followed up. You never followed the quota. You've never had a limited number of sprinklers. You never followed the number of RIZIV numbers. If you have problems today in certain sub-specialities and certain areas, it is because your French community government has never pursued a policy to ensure that doctors also go to those particular areas, as one has done in Flanders, and choose those particular sub-specialities, as one has successfully done in Flanders. The first version of the bill contained an article stating that quotas should be abolished. Fortunately, we were able to have this article deleted in committee. I note that the PS is now trying to re-introduce this by means of an amendment. I cannot stress enough how much I think this is witnessing an arrogance that is really out of all proportion. You helped approve the quota 20 years ago. You have then done everything for twenty years to ensure that Flanders did its job properly, while you have allowed all kinds of constructions to be approved to ensure that this did not have to happen on your side. You are now in enormous uncertainty with students and they are sitting there only because you have not done your job. You will continue to shift responsibility to the federal level and to the people who did do their job. I am very pleased that this article has been voted down in committee. We will be happy to vote on your amendment again. If that succeeds, we will support this proposal. I would like to add one more thing, which will be explained by Mr Yoleen Van Camp. If we are going to look at the conditions that should apply to doctors in order to obtain a certificate, I think that the language condition is also one. Mr Van Camp has been working on this for years. Unfortunately, she has seen an amendment to the WUG Act fall. This might be a chance to fix that. I'll leave it to her to explain this further. The President: I shall now give the floor to Mrs Van Camp on that amendment for ease of reference.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u99	Mr President, it is particularly regrettable and quite incomprehensible that other parties do not agree with this. We're really alone in there. When one looks at communication between people, it is already very important to speak the same language. That is all the more true when we talk about medical interventions. When people are in need, they don't always have the opportunity to choose a health care provider. We therefore stress the need for language skills from the start of discussions on the requirements for the exercise of care professions. We have indicted this on several occasions, and we ourselves gave a handhold to the government, of which we were then part, to get it incorporated into the law on the exercise of health care professions. That was not possible, several parties blocked it. We have tried to find a solution in the form of our own legislative proposal, which was not accepted. Once again, we tabled this as an amendment to the WUG Act, but once again we have found that other parties do not want to go along with it. Thus they are absolutely not worthy of the V in their name, for they put people in danger. The fact that a patient in an emergency has no free choice as to the health care provider and is not sure that the healthcare professional speaks his language is in itself a danger to health. That is why we are once again putting forward the proposal to register the language of the language of the healthcare provider's establishment. Specifically, a healthcare professional who settles in Flanders has to prove that he speaks Dutch before he can get to work. The same applies to the parts of the country where other languages are spoken. In Wallonia, a doctor must first demonstrate that he is powerful in the French language before he can continue as a health care professional.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u100	Mr President, I will speak from my bench because I will be brief. We abstained in committee and we will also abstain in plenary. Without entering into polemics, I hear the usual ritournelles with regard to Francophones. As far as I am concerned, I will try to get a little higher in this important debate and indicate how it is in our eyes. I would like to point out, Mr President, that more than six out of ten communes in Wallonia and 33 neighbourhoods in Brussels are currently in a shortage of general practitioners. Of the 253 Walloon municipalities, only 103 have a sufficient density of treating doctors. This shortage also affects certain specialties such as emergency medicine, geriatrics or psychiatry, with direct consequences for patients who are struggling to find a general practitioner or who have to wait abnormally long time to get an appointment. All studies converge to say that this shortage will only increase in the years to come. Many physicians are approaching retirement age, and most of the work force in general medicine is currently provided by physicians entering the 54-64 age group. However, we continue to limit access to the practice of medicine and dentistry in a completely aberrant manner in our eyes - I do not ask you to share our point of view. Worse still, in recent years, the Minister of Health, who has not pleased us with her presence, supported by her ex-majority partners, has made the system even more disastrous, ignoring the needs of patients, ignoring the quality and accessibility of our medicine. Do I have to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that the Council of State itself, with regard to changes to the quota system, was referring to "an incoherent system which undermines the right to health protection and constitutes a decline in the medical supply in a given community"? Ladies and gentlemen, we are not the only ones to make this observation. I have heard our excellent colleague, the current Speaker of the Senate, himself a physician, Jacques Brochi, say recently - and I support our distinguished colleague - that he was personally opposed to the quota principle. Mrs Fonck, I recently heard Minister Greoli say that "to cling to the distribution of 60-40 between Dutch-speaking and French-speaking students, while the shortage is much greater in Wallonia than in Flanders and the realities are very different between the North and the South of the country, is a total ineptitude". Finally, the Fédération des étudiants francophones states that "it is a good thing that many young people want to become doctors to care for their fellow citizens, because it meets a collective need; but they are prevented from doing so and it is profoundly absurd". This is an absurd reality when we see that foreign doctors must be called upon to work in our hospitals, simply because the needs are felt and the labour force is lacking. As you indicated, these doctors who have graduated abroad are not covered by the quota. If, for my group, it is obviously incomprehensible that a Belgian student is not considered equally to a foreign student with regard to the conditions for access to specialization, we believe that it is essential to address this problem of shortage more comprehensively. That is the very essence of the motivation of our abstention. Yes, this text removes discrimination that we also denounce; but it does not, in our view, provide any solution to the problem of shortage that concerns us. Mr President, I, together with my group, have tabled two amendments - we have just referred to them. The first is intended to ensure that all students currently undergoing medical or dental training, upon completion of their successful training, obtain an INAMI number. Since 2014, this government has in fact carried out a genuine blackmail against the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. He forced him to put in place a filter at the entrance to medical and dentistry studies, otherwise he would not grant an INAMI number to students currently undergoing training. The Federation has therefore put this filter in place. Today, the Minister of Public Health plans to put in place an additional lock at the end of the training. Some students, although successful in their training, would therefore no longer have access to internships and would not receive their INAMI number. For my group, it is no longer tolerable that hundreds of students continue to be taken hostage by the federal government, which is still threatening them not to be able to practise their profession at the end of their studies, for lack of an INAMI number. While it is true that surplus INAMI numbers have been issued in the past, it turns out that the shortage is a reality and that the quotas currently set will be insufficient to meet the health needs of our population, specifically in the south of the country. In the same vein, we have tabled a second amendment, joining Mrs Fonck's original proposal, which she amended at the last minute, which has earned her the support of the N-VA alone. We have re-tabled this amendment, by which we propose to simply remove the system that allows access to the practice of medicine and dentistry. My group hopes that everyone will be able to have an objective and non-electoral view of the situation, with the sole objective of ensuring the health of our citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u101	Mr. President, the truth has its rights. It has not been since today that I have been mobilizing on this issue. This is not the first time I've tried to put him to the vote. Mr Frédéric, on March 14, 2018, you had tabled the same amendment that I had previously tabled, which planned to remove the quota exemption for foreign graduates. I am not going to go into the debate, but it seemed to me important to recall the precedents.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u102	Mr President, I respect the work of my colleagues. I never said that Mrs. Fonck had ever worked on this file. I just said that today, in 2019, it's a false good idea and I just justified why. Perhaps Mrs Fonck should ask herself the essential question. The question of why by being alone in supporting this text at first, it was joined only and exclusively by the N-VA. If I were her, I'd ask myself that one question!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u103	Mr Frédéric, I would like to return to two points, if I may. First, I see that what you found smart in 2018 is no longer so in 2019. Of which act. As far as I'm concerned, I have a consistency on such important issues as these. What you present as something laughable is the daily lives of many young people, and in addition, it is an unacceptable down-time discrimination. On this point, the Planning Commission, which is still not a penguin and which does not work for the N-VA – neither for me, nor for you, I hope – fully supports me, since it has issued a report in which it explicitly stated that it is absolutely necessary to do so. Secondly, as far as the N-VA is concerned, I am tired of the politicians who, on this issue, have only been invetting for years and are constantly looking at the ping-pong ball, without any result! What interests me is that we can solve problems one after the other. I presented a series of complementary proposals for an overall approach earlier orally. I hope that, rather than arguing, we can finally move this text forward. This is a first step; more is needed. On these others, it is not today either that I invest myself!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u104	Mr President, we are fully aware of the problem posed by the influx of foreign doctors. We are absolutely in favour of establishing a quota for them. Let's be clear from the start! On the other hand, a number of elements need to be reframed. That's what I'll try to do quickly now. The first element is to say that the migration of health professionals, and in particular doctors, is a growing phenomenon worldwide and, particularly, in Europe since the recognition of the equivalence of diplomas implemented in 2007. This first remark concerning the increase in the number of foreign doctors in recent years is a consequence of the positive development of European legislation: the recognition of diplomas, the simplification of procedures, free movement. It is therefore imperative that any initiative taken should be part of this European legislation. It seems to me that we have not taken it sufficiently into account during the debate. The second element, the fact that the mobility of foreign doctors is manifested at several times in the health professional path complicates the understanding of the phenomenon. As you know, international mobility allows foreigners to enter the Belgian care system at three times: the first, at the start of studies; the second, at the time of specialization; the third, at the time of entry into the labour market, i.e. at the time of obtaining accreditation. Admission to studies is the responsibility of the Education and, therefore, of the Communities, while the other two moments are the responsibility of the Public Health and therefore the Federal Health Department. In terms of numbers, Mrs. Fonck, I read you. We had a little discussion on this in committee. In addition, you said and wrote that in 2015, there were more INAMI numbers assigned to internationally trained physicians and dentists than to doctors and dentists trained in Francophone universities. You talked about 489 abroad, compared to 473 in French-speaking universities. I see you don't confirm what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u105	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u106	So we agree: that's what you said. Unfortunately, Mrs. Fonck, that figure is not correct. I have obviously consulted those who have been forwarded by the quota committee. In the end, I can tell you that, for the French Community, there are 473 INAMI numbers for doctors and dentists – that is correct. On the other hand, for the non-Belgians, we are talking about 364 and not 489, as you said.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u107	Mr Thiéry, I did not say that foreign doctors were settling only on the French side, but that this was true for Belgium as a whole. Therefore, in the table of the Planning Commission, you have to add the figures relating to the French Community and the Flemish Community. You will then reach a total of 489. Are you following me, Mr. Thiéry?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u108	I am very well with you, especially since I have the figures from the Planning Commission in front of me. You obviously have your interpretation. For my part, I go a little further in the reasoning. You took the figures for 2015, but there are also those for 2016 and 2017.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u109	And 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u110	All right, but I would just like to elaborate on the following. You said that in 2015, 51% of foreign dentists received their INAMI number. However, you forgot to recall the 2016 and 2017 rates. The figures here are extremely important. In 2015, we reached a climax in the number of foreign doctors and dentists who received their numbers. However, if we look at the next two years, we find that for doctors, we have fallen from 41% to 35% in 2016 and to 30% in 2107. In addition, in 2011, the rate for dentists was 45%, while for physicians it was 28%. In short, we are returning more or less to this standard. It is important to understand that the figures you gave in commission are those of 2015, and that in 2016 and 2017, the figures were no longer in line with the examples you provided to support your bill. However, the problem of the influx of foreign doctors remains. We agree. I still wanted to refer to a point that should not leave us unquestioned. The text makes no distinction between the quota of doctors coming from the European Union and those coming from other countries, although this difference is present in the figures we have received from the Planning Committee. The largest percentage is made up of doctors from the European Union. What is more fair in view of the free movement and equivalence of diplomas? Together with my colleague Nathalie Muylle, we will be examining next week in the Health Committee a very concrete quota scheme for doctors from countries outside the European Union. I would also point out that it is incorrect to say that the allocation of INAMI numbers to doctors trained abroad would reduce the number of INAMI numbers assigned to doctors trained in Belgium. This must be taken into account in this calculation. The influx of internationally trained doctors, on the other hand, makes it possible to fill the shortage in certain specializations unfortunately considered less attractive, such as emergency doctors and geriatrics in hospitals. Finally, it is necessary to relativize the assertion that Belgian students would go abroad to train, hoping to have an INAMI number on their return. I demonstrated in committee that the Belgian doctors who will train in Romania, and then return to Belgium, were one in 2015 and two in 2016. These figures have been transmitted to me by the Romanian Parliament. Mr President, here are the comments I wanted to make to the debate. As in committee, our group will abstain.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u111	Mr Thiéry, I have here a document from the Embassy of Romania in Belgium, which was requested by my colleague Georges Dallemagne. In 2017, in the first year, there are 20 registered students; in the second year, 12 registered students; in the third year, 6 registered students; in the fourth year, 2 registered students. So it's not just about one or two students, as you say. I can give you a copy of this document. You also come back to doctors and dentists outside the European Union. It is indeed a very small number, but they must be treated in the same way. There are much stricter rules for them in Belgium. And given the larger numbers at European Union level, this is where we really need to correct this discrimination back and also work to quota them in order to be able to organise health care in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u112	Mr President, Mrs Fonck, thank you for that clarification. You're quoting 2017 figures. I gave the figures for 2015 and 2016 that were in my possession and that come from the Romanian Senate. We'll compare them. You also forget to say that it is not because some future Belgian doctors are going to study in Romania that they intend to come back to have an INAMI number here. A lot of them will stay there. There is a lot of exchanges at many levels and certainly at the level of medicine.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u113	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time we have dealt with this issue and it will not be the last time. I would like to comment on Mr Frédéric's speech, because he has almost touched me. When one hears his story, it is always about someone else's fault. According to Mr Frédéric, it is someone else's fault that there has been no entrance exam in French-speaking Belgium for years. It is also someone else's fault that there are so many surpluses today, for them deficits but for the rest of the country surpluses. It is also someone else's fault that when there is an entrance exam that is not effective and more students are allowed than there are RIZIV numbers to distribute. It is also someone else's fault that there is not a good spread today and that there is a shortage of general practitioners while subquotas are now the responsibility of the Communities. It is also someone else's fault that the federal medical planning tools do not work while the PS delivered the minister of health who installed these instruments in the previous three legislatures. I can go on like this for a while. Colleagues of the PS, I think you have a crushing responsibility. I am now looking at colleagues Fonck and Thiéry, who have always been on the same page here and who have had the debate in a much more nuanced way. I'm not in the habit of taking on Mr. Fonck's defense, but I will now. If you say that Mr Fonck has never mentioned this in the past, I must point out that she has done nothing else in recent years. She has always said in the debate on the figures that they should be nuanced for her because no account has been taken of foreign doctors in any way. I think we can agree with that, my colleague. However, CD&V will abstain. We understand what you're saying about the foreign doctors. We also wonder whether we should not distinguish between doctors within and outside the EU. Mr Thiéry said that this would be on the agenda again on Tuesday. We'll be able to have the discussion there. The proposal in its original form, with the possibility, if we did not introduce it, of abolishing the full quota after two years, would not have gone ahead for us. This has been removed from the text, which makes it a little better and more plausible for us. Mrs Fonck, our abstention today supports our sympathy for what you are doing today. The French-speaking colleagues have a crushing responsibility in this file that they do not include. That is why we will not support this. I know it does not make much sense to repeat this, but we hope that there will be some common sense from the other side here, so that we can have the conversation with some reason.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u114	Mr President, Mrs Fonck, I would like to thank you for putting on the agenda a fundamental issue. Today we can put the problem of shortages that endanger our public health in Belgium back on track. The figures were recalled: 144 Walloon communes are in short supply. The Observatoire de la Santé et du Social announces a shortage of 480 general practitioners in ten years if nothing changes. In this debate, it is realized that the shortage would be even greater if these foreign doctors did not complete the ranks. Today they are 12%, and this figure is only increasing. I also note that this subject is the cost of community war. He suffered the failures of successive majorities in different governments. It is obviously the students and patients who suffer. One might therefore be tempted to vote in favour of this text for several reasons, for example to highlight the real figures of the shortage. I am pleased to hear today that the N-VA recognizes the shortage of doctors in Belgium. That's what I heard. We'll join together and it's very good.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u115	Mr President, I have a simple question for Mrs Schlitz. Whose responsibility is this lead to the subspecialisms? Can you give me a clear answer to that?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u116	I was referring to Mrs....
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u117	Whose responsibility is the lead of the people to the subspecialisms? You just don't know the file! You're just standing there talking shit. Let me ask you a simple question. Whose authority is it to lead people to the subspecialties?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u118	Mrs Schlitz, you make your speech as you wish.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u119	That's what I'm going to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u120	There is no obligation to respond.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u121	Mr. Chairman, we cannot constantly be subjected to the provocations of the N-VA on a case like this one.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u122	Then answer me. Do you know the answer? Whose authority is the lead to the subspecialisms?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u123	Mr President, we are not here to constantly hear the provocations of the N-VA.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u124	I don't understand what's provocative about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u125	We understand that you support this text, it joins your ideology and your anti-Francophone obsession.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u126	It's a very simple, substantive question. Whose authority is the lead to the subspecialisms?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u127	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u128	I'll give the floor to whoever asks.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u129	Mr. Frédéric, do you know? Whose authority is the lead to the subspecialisms?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u130	You've already asked that question. Who's asking for the floor?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u131	Mr President, the speaker did not ask who was responsible for the shortage. She simply asked whether the project today under discussion was aimed precisely at solving the problems or rather at serving as an alibi to your anti-Francophone obsession. That's what she said!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u132	Mr President, Mrs Schlitz, who is going to take the floor again because she has prepared her speech and is particularly familiar with the dossier, called for: firstly, not to communitize a debate which is a public health debate, which we all need to pay attention to; secondly, to try to work on convergences by pointing out positively that Mrs Van Peel and therefore the N-VA acknowledged the existence of difficulties linked to the shortage of doctors, and, as is also the case in Flanders, to the involvement of doctors trained abroad, a subject put on the agenda by Mrs Fonck. I simply propose to allow Mrs Schlitz to continue her presentation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u133	Mr President, I was therefore saying that today's debate can shed light on the numbers of the shortage we are currently experiencing in Belgium. It can also be an opportunity to put an end to the brain drain that is being organised in Europe at the moment. In fact, what we know about us has an impact on health care in other countries, such as Romania, where entire populations suffer from a serious shortage of doctors, a shortage that causes serious health problems and even mortality in some remote areas where there is no doctor. This could therefore be a gesture towards these populations. There is also a problem of fairness to our students and doctors who are in a particularly difficult situation. Indeed, with the system as it is organised, they are experiencing competition which, in a way, is not fair. This could also oblige the European Union to rework the subject, because we know that part of the file has a European tone. The desire to travel and settle elsewhere is opposed by the systems of limiting access to these studies, particularly in France, which have a significant impact on neighbouring countries. We consider that the risks of this text weigh too much in the balance than in order to implement it. It could result in an increase in the shortage. It is foreign doctors who perform functions such as those of emergency workers and other essential functions in our health care system, as they are deserted by our doctors. If their numbers continued to decrease, we would face a serious problem. However, a doctor can only be trained in eight to ten years or more. I do not see very well how training could compensate for this decrease in foreign doctors, at least in the short term. Another element hinders us in this text: it continues to extend a quota system that is not particularly proven in Europe. We believe that the problem should be looked at from a different perspective: no longer addressing the consequences but looking at the causes of the shortage. Finally, we have a vision of openness vis-à-vis the European people and we believe that through this text we are limited to Belgian territory. That is not how we want to consider European integration. We will therefore abstain from voting on this text. On the one hand, asking for the quota of foreign doctors to be settled by royal decree seems complicated in the sense that there is a lack of will in the head of the minister to move forward on this subject. We believe that a blockage could occur. On the other hand, in view of the abolition of Article 3 through the amendments, there is a risk of a complicated situation due to an aggravated shortage. I would remind you once again that we want this Parliament and this government to have a comprehensive political vision of public health. We want to objective the shortage, to organize territorial planning for public health and the health of our fellow citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u134	Mr President, Mrs Schlitz, I will not ask you any more questions, I will not embarrass you. However, I would like to say the following. Mr Fonck's proposal, which is before us today, which will result in more students planning through quotas and more doctors on the ground, will not solve the distribution in the rural areas and will not give incentives to have more doctors in the Walloon rural areas. After all, that is not a federal competence. First of all, the subquotas for the general practitioners and the incentives must be adjusted. It's about Impulseo 1, Impulseo 2 and Impulseo 3, introduced by colleague Onkelinx and today all community jurisdiction. The Communities are competent, Wallonia is competent. This will not change the situation. I thought I'd give it to you anyway. Think about it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u135	Mr President, I have just listened with increasing amazement to Mr Frédéric's speech. I will not repeat the history of the dossier, because enough has already been said about the fact that no agreement on the French-speaking side concerning the organisation of entrance examinations and so on has been met. That has already been pointed out enough by colleagues. If you are familiar with this history for many years, Mr Frédéric, I would dare, at least, to speak with a great deal of caution, and perhaps not at all, let alone with a content and a tone that I found hallucinating today. It is not my custom to repeat what has already been said. I would therefore like to endorse what Mr Van Peel, Mr Van Camp and Mr Muylle have already said on this point: the proposal is a step in the right direction and it is very good that the text has been deleted which states that, in the event of non-implementation, quotas would be completely abolished after two years. That was, of course, completely absurd and in that case we would very much have liked to vote against it. We shall therefore vote against the amendments tabled by the PS with great conviction. However, I heard Mr Van Camp raise a point that is not correct. She rightly supported language skills, but said that she was alone in them. That is absolutely not the case, Mr Van Camp. We have always supported all the proposals to this effect that you have referred to in the past. We are very aware of the importance of language and of communication between a patient and his physician, which is fundamental and often vital. You are not the only one who has tabled an amendment. We had already tabled an amendment on this subject, because language skills are so important. We will certainly support your amendment, and I am also counting on your support for my amendment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u136	Mrs Fonck, we are very uncomfortable with your proposal. We share your findings and concerns, but we believe that this proposal has the merit of being there to show how absurd the situation is. For DéFI, setting up a quota of doctors and dentists trained in a foreign university is really not the right solution. It is absurd in itself to maintain a quota while the existence of shortages of doctors has been demonstrated and alarm bells have been drawn regularly, both by experts and by the circles concerned. It is not by strengthening an absurd mechanism with an additional quota for young people studying abroad that the problem of shortages will be solved. We also know that young Belgians will study abroad to escape the absurdity of the quota. They are even offered training in French in Romania. We are also committed to the European principle of free movement. That is a fundamental principle. We do not wish to restrict this right, especially since we believe that this would be contrary to European legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u137	Mr President, I cannot help it. Will we keep that discourse here again? The file records everything, that's Belgium at its best. The French-speaking colleagues keep saying things here again and again that the Flemings, across party boundaries, are stunned. For the sake of clarity, Mrs Caprasse, you say once again that there is a shortage in Wallonia. Since the introduction of the quota, there has been a surplus of 1 500 doctors. But you are not allocated them to the right specialities and to the right areas, but that is because the French Community is not doing anything. I can now hear you say that the proposed solution, which I support because it is needed in Flanders, will solve the problem of all those poor students in Wallonia who had to go elsewhere because they could not all graduate because of the quota system. In those 20 years, you have never been subject to quotas. You got graduation who wanted to graduate. There has never been a brake on the number of doctors you have contracted, and yet you are suffering from shortages in certain specialities, because the French Community is not doing its job. You have never done what we in Flanders have done with great success for twenty years. Stop it. There's no shortage. You just don't do your job. Punt.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u138	Mrs Van Peel, you are simply sitting on the Planning Committee. You don't respect what's going on in Belgium. That's it! May I continue, Mr. President? Mrs Fonck, you are no doubt well aware of this, since in your original version you had provided for an article 3 stipulating that if, within two years of the entry into force of your law, it was not possible to implement it, the numerus clausus had to be abandoned. I preferred this first version, but in view of the opposition of the Flemish parties, N-VA in the lead, you withdrew this article. It goes without saying that, given this position in this dossier, we fully support the amendments introduced by our colleague Mr André Frédéric, which are aimed on the one hand at abolishing the numerus clausus, and on the other hand at ensuring that all students currently undergoing training receive an INAMI number once they have graduated. It's the most basic thing today.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u139	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u140	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3032/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3032/4) The bill has 2 articles. The bill has two articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u141	· 4 – Barbara Pas (3032/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u142	· 2 – André Frédéric (3032/5) • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 5... Yoleen Van Camp (3032/6)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u143	· 3 – André Frédéric (3032/5) ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u144	Sustained: the vote on the amendments and Article 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u145	Article adopted by article: Article 1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u146	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments that have been tabled, the Rule that has been adopted and on the whole will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved article as well as on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u147	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Jan Vercammen, An Capoen, Yoleen Van Camp, Valerie Van Peel, Catherine Fonck, Nathalie Muylle, Ine Somers, Damien Thiéry, Anne Dedry, Sarah Schlitz.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u148	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs, Mr Janssens and Mr Piedboeuf, refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u149	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of my first and perhaps only term as a Member of Parliament, the legislative proposal No. 3230 after me to the heart. Given my background as a cardiologist, I am somewhat proud to be able to put the bill to the vote. After all, it can mean the beginning of the improvement of our understanding of why young athletes leave their lives for unclear reasons. With the regularity of a slow Swiss clock, reports of sudden unexpected deaths among young athletes appear both in our newspapers and on TV. It remains a medical riddle why the heart of that one athlete refuses service at that particular moment. A heart, ladies and gentlemen, consists of 10 billion heart muscle cells, which work together 100 000 times a day in a synchronous pattern and keep us alive. Nothing seems more obvious until that one fatal moment. We know from years of observation that good physical condition and regular sports promote our health and life expectancy. A sudden death of a well-known athlete, widely smeared, affects that security and frightens many people. We do know some underlying heart problems that increase the risk of sudden death. However, we also note that carriers of known problems rarely develop cardiac arrest. However well-intentioned, the screening of young athletes, a competence of the Communities in our divided country, as has just been illustrated in detail, shows serious shortcomings. We have too many false positive and too many false negative results. In human terms, screened people can still fall dead and people who are wrongly labelled as unfit for sport in screening are condemned to a life in the seat and to pathological fear of any physical activity, fear of something that may never happen. Measuring is knowing, colleagues. Insight into our genetic material, our DNA has grown exponentially in recent years. Our country has only a limited tradition in post-mortem research. Most young athletes who suddenly die await a busy funeral, half an allusion to performance-promoting equipment and a lot of collateral damage to friends and family members and athletic peers. Many of my older patients find yet another reason to put a healthy lifestyle with plenty of sport back in the fridge. The proposal before us seeks to change this and reflects on another, important social problem of more than ten years ago, cradle death. Since legislation was changed here in our home in 2003, cradle death has been systematically investigated. The competent authorities told me last month that in more than 60% of cases a clear cause of death can now be identified. It is my wish and that of the proposers that the legislative proposal should have the same effect. When we investigate, we'll know. It may therefore also refine the screening of young athletes and lead to more targeted prevention in certain tacit disease conditions or the presence of certain genes or genetic variants. I can't judge the consequences of the bill, just as much as we can predict the weather for next week, but my hope as a cardiologist is that we can shift a stone into the river, so that our insights can grow and we can achieve a more meaningful screening and prevention. I would like to express my thanks to all the colleagues from various groups for the help and support and the elaboration of the proposal. I would like to thank the fellow doctors from the various universities who wish to engage in the implementing decisions. Thank you, too, for the support of the cabinet and the minister. As a farewell MEP, it is for me the start of a new scientifically strong story with a social potential. In a country where we had to budget more than 200 million euros for the latest anticancer treatment last year for the Health Department, this bill, which allows us to prevent cardiac arrest in young sportsmen and which was budgeted at less than 1 million euros, is actually a bargain. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u150	Mr President, I too would like to thank Jan Vercammen for the work he has done, especially the preparatory work but also all the sources he has been able to obtain with a number of colleagues from the universities. It is known, of course, that sudden death among young athletes is rare, but it is a tragic event. Reimbursing the diagnosis and all the costs associated with these deaths is obviously a huge step forward. We know that budgetary involvement is not enormous. It is never just justice in relation to the families who always ask themselves why these tragic and unexpected deaths took place on the sports grounds. I think it's a step forward in the sports world. In this context, we could not do otherwise. We should've done it a lot sooner. That is why we join in this remarkable work. I think the whole committee has had the opportunity to speak on the subject, saying that all this was positive for the sports community.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u151	Mr President, when we discussed it together for the first time, I was immediately convinced of the absolute need to move forward on this issue because these tragic deaths remain a mystery in a majority of cases. Many assumptions can be made but there is no certainty. The challenge, of course, is not to respond to a particular death in the past, but to really work for protection and try - it will not be so easy - to avoid in the future this kind of unexpected death of young people in the midst of sport. This is an important step. Remember, Mr. Vercammen, this KCE report on whether or not to conduct a systematic heart test for young people with advanced sports practice. The questions remain complete, but these analyses, autopsyes, scientific assessments of the data collected may also allow us to decide on this point, perhaps differently from the practices that are being carried out today. In conclusion, it seemed important to me - I spoke about it from the beginning and you agreed - that we should pay particular attention to the respect of the family concerned by the unexpected death of one of its relatives during intensive physical exercise. I thank my colleague. We will support this text, which I had co-signed; it is a good initiative based on scientific evidence.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u152	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u153	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3230/5) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3230/5) The bill has 9 articles. The bill has 9 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u154	Article 3 • 8 – Nathalie Muylle cs (3230/6) Article 8 • 9 – Nathalie Muylle cs (3230/6) ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u155	Sustained: the vote on the amendments and Articles 3 and 8.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u156	Article adopted by article: Articles 1, 2, 4 to 7 and 9.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u157	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and articles that have been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendments and the reserved articles as well as on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u158	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Jacques Chabot, Sevastian Pirlot, Julie Fernandez Fernandez.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u159	The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85.4) (2902/5) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85.4) (2902/5) The meeting's open. The discussion is open. Mr Hendrik Bogaert, rapporteur, and Mr Alain Top, rapporteur, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u160	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank my colleagues from the various groups for supporting this text in the Defence Committee. I would also like to thank our two rapporteurs, Messrs. Top and Bogaert. This text gives the government a clear mandate to follow up without delay. I believe that the subject here, the well-being of our military in operations, must transcend all political divisions. The quality of the work of the Belgian military is no longer to be demonstrated and is frequently welcomed by our various European and international partners. Belgian military personnel are required to be deployed in theatres of operations which are varied in terms of both the nature of their missions and the level of danger and complexity of their missions in terms of human, material or environmental aspects. Our defence missions in Afghanistan, Iraq or Mali are good recent examples, as we have seen during visits to our military on field missions, as well as during our parliamentary work in the Defence Committee or in a special committee to monitor operations abroad. After several months of intensive deployment, it must be noted that the return to ordinary life can be brutal for the women and men who make up our armed forces. This was recently drawn by a number of military unions which supported our text and showed its usefulness. The poignant testimony at hearings before our committee has also, alas, justified the importance of the debate which our group launched on the basis of this proposal. The potential trauma that our military personnel can experience when faced with war experiences in operation requires a differentiated approach. Indeed, they may materialize in a retreat, depression or inability to return to a normal life. These symptoms of post-traumatic stress are difficult to identify among soldiers who return from the front and therefore require long-term specialized follow-up, using expertise that must be absolutely present in our Defence. The medical component and, in particular, the sustainability of the Royal Military Hospital therefore have a crucial role to play here, even if this point no longer appears as such in the proposals amended in committee – which I can regret – I wanted to remind you. While the current arrangements are welcome and seem to work when the military expresses its demand, I believe that it is up to the political authority to take stock of them and to improve them, if necessary, within the framework of a true long-term vision and in a much more systematic, preventive and integrated manner. I would stress that this must be the case, even without any explicit request being made. To date, it has to be noted that there seems to be a lack of proper preparation for return. The lack of a genuine mechanism in this area is a matter of concern to me at a time when the rate of attrition, particularly among young military personnel, remains extremely high and worrying. These are elements that place a heavy burden on the future of our armed forces and their sustainability. In addition, the strategic vision assigns combat missions a key function of our Defence. This means de facto assessing and adapting, particularly with military unions, the resources available to our military personnel throughout their careers and missions. This assessment could be conducted in the form of an exchange of best practices with our neighbours with expertise in this area, in order to improve our arrangements before, during and after the operations in which our military personnel are involved. Our French counterparts have thus carried out very interesting work on this topic. This could also be done, why not, in collaboration with other Belgian public services concerned with the problem, as indicated by the new application No 4 submitted by my colleagues. Our text opens several avenues without imposing anything, because it is on the basis of this in-depth evaluation work that it will be necessary to take real measures. We hope that the government will launch this assessment without delay, with the House giving it a clear mandate. I would like to take this opportunity once again to draw your attention to request No. 3, which means that now, in the Special Commission for the follow-up of missions abroad, our Minister reports every six months on the psychosocial follow-up provided to the Belgian military in the context of the operations in which the Defence was able to take part. I will conclude by pointing out that the attrition figures and the latest often catastrophic internal investigations carried out among the Belgian military remind us of the importance of taking into account their well-being and improving them both in operations and when they are back in their family life. The main resource of an army of the future, capable of carrying out the tasks entrusted to it, is the men and women who make it up. Let's never forget it! That is why I hope again that I can count on your support for this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u161	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of well-being and, of course, the psychosocial support of military personnel suffering from post-traumatic stress syndrome are extremely important for our group. Former Minister Vandeput has always advocated well-being. He has taken many steps forward there, especially in the area of prevention. However, it does not seem to us to make much sense to make a resolution to a government in current cases. A government is asked to do something, but which government is asked to do so? We are a constructive group and we have therefore asked the committee to put that resolution in a legislative proposal. Unfortunately, you did not take that into account. To sum up, we think the subject is extremely important, but your resolution may only ease your conscience because you have dropped a document. Unfortunately, however, it will yield very little. Our group will therefore abstain in the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u162	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed. No amendments were tabled or retabled. No amendments have been tabled or retabled. The vote on the proposal will take place later. The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u163	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Caroline Cassart-Mailleux, Sybille de Coster-Bauchau, Philippe Pivin, Gilles Foret.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u164	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u165	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u166	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that we can move forward on this proposal, which has long been requested by the Union of Belgian Cities and Municipalities and supported by its sister association, the Vereniging van Belgische Steden en Gemeenten. The proposal does not require long developments. The original text of the proposal was intended primarily to ease the delegation of public procurement requirements for police and relief areas. Minister Jambon had in his time solved the problem for the relief zones through the law of 18 July 2018 on various domestic provisions. We have therefore amended the bill accordingly. For greater clarity, we propose that the rules on the jurisdiction of police areas with regard to public procurement should be included directly in the Integrated Police Act. For greater consistency, we are making the same changes for police areas as those made to relief areas by the above-mentioned 2018 law. Mutatis mutandis, this is the removal of the requirement of day-to-day management for the possibility of delegation of competences to the College for contracts financed from the regular budget, and the extension of the possibilities of delegation in order to enable flexible and efficient management of public procurement in police areas. For both police and rescue areas, we also specify the powers of the college in relation to what exists in the new communal law, and we adapt them to situations in which the powers of the council are exercised by the college, the corps chief, the zone commander or other personnel. Two more important clarifications concerning the delegation of powers by the Board: it is a faculty, an option that is offered, but not an obligation. Out of transparency, I would like to point out that we have worked with the Union of Belgian Cities and Municipalities to draft this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u167	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u168	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2769/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2769/7) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u169	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u170	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Karolien Grosemans, Peter Buysrogge, Rita Bellens, Peter Luykx. The Committee on Defence proposes that this bill be rejected. (3009/2) The National Defence Commission proposes to reject this bill. (3009/2) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u171	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we live in a democracy with rights and freedoms. We live in a rule of law where all citizens, regardless of their rank or status, are citizens of this country, citizens with inalienable rights. Political rights constitute a democratic process with which to stand for election, to be elected and to take a mandate effectively. A number of citizens do not have these rights. I don't understand! Military people still do not have access to the entire political system, and that cannot be the intention. Why should a soldier not be allowed to exercise a national or European mandate when this is allowed in our neighbouring countries? Anyone who restricts the rights of military personnel to the local level gives the impression that military personnel would be only to a limited extent suitable for the exercise of a political mandate. Ladies and gentlemen, we call on the military to defuse bombs, to protect ourselves from acts of terror, to assist the police, to replace guards in strikes, to provide medical assistance in the event of disasters, to provide help to the nation and third parties, to fish drones from the sea; but would we deny them this basic right? An adaptation of this law will only mean an enrichment and added value for the politics where people with all kinds of backgrounds have to be found. Giving political rights is a sign of respect. Our group has full confidence in the military as a possible elected representative. First of all, we are all citizens and citizens can sit at all levels as far as our group is concerned. Colleagues, this bill was voted down in the Defence Committee. Especially Open Vld surprised me. Open Vld has always supported this proposal and in the past it was very much in favour of it. It is also not in line with their statements and opinions, which I have read on this subject. Colleagues of Open Vld, I may not be able to convince you, but I would like to quote my colleague, Mrs Vautmans. She wrote a beautiful opinion text: "Militaires can run for local or provincial elections. I myself was more ambitious" - she means more ambitious than Grosemans - "and would have liked to have granted military full political rights. Indeed, I had granted them access to regional, community, federal or European mandates, to the entire political system. Political rights for military personnel are limited to the local level. Then why did our country support a recommendation from the Council of Europe that recognises the electoral rights of military personnel? A missed opportunity, if you ask me. Why should a Belgian soldier not be allowed to exercise a national or European mandate when a Dutch, French, German or Danish soldier is allowed to do so? Surely military people are for more good than just to stand for our safety at risk for our own lives?" She ends her opinion text with the question: "Aren't soldiers civilians perhaps?" In the meantime, I read on Twitter that we might get support from Open Vld after all. That's very hopeful. I therefore now turn to CD&V. I see Mr Beke, mayor of the beautiful city of Leopoldsburg, with a lot of soldiers. I see Mrs. Heeren, mayor of Sint-Truiden, where Saffronberg is located. And Little Brogel also has a CD&V mayor. I call on CD&V to think again and to support this proposal anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u172	No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place later. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u173	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Conseil Degroote, Brecht Vermeulen, Egbert Lachaert, Vincent Van Quickenborne. The Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Public Prosecutor proposes that this bill be rejected. (1192/2) The Committee on the Interior, General Affairs and the Civil Service proposes to reject this bill. (1922/2) Pursuant to Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary shall decide on this proposal for rejection after hearing the rapporteur and, where appropriate, the proposers. In accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, the plenary session will decide on this rejection proposal after hearing the rapporteur and possibly the authors. The rapporteur, Ms Nawal Ben Hamou, refers to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u174	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am largely in agreement with what our distinguished colleague Karolien Grosemans has said. The Belgian Constitution says that all Belgians are equal before the law. From that perspective, this proposal was tabled. It also aims to give operational police members access to local mandates through the elections. The operational police officers do not have that access, where their colleagues from the CalLog do. In addition to the Constitution, we also rely on the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, in particular Articles 22 and 25, which provide for such access. On this basis, several countries, including the Netherlands, provide for the possibility for police officers to run for local elections. That treaty does say that restrictions can be built in for policemen. We have also taken this into account in our proposal. We have restricted access as one cannot be a candidate in the area where one is an operational policeman. So we ourselves introduce this restriction spontaneously. In this context, I would like to make one last point. Now it is also possible in a sideways way for operational police officers to be candidates to be elected. However, one of the existing leave schemes must be used. One can therefore no longer take up one's duties for a certain period of time. This is the case, for example, in Antwerp for someone who is now there. If, after a number of years, such a person asks for the re-election of the post and returns, can one still say that it is completely neutral? That thought was made by some on the committee who are against it. This could call into question the neutrality of our police officers. When one sees how many policemen are members of one political party or another, how many policemen somehow put forward their ideas on social media or through other channels, one has to ask oneself the question: where are the limits of political neutrality? Those people too, like the military, as Mr Grosemans said, have a right to their opinion. These people too must not be denied access to these posts. I had hoped that certain parties, certainly sp.a and Green, would show a little more empathy for this proposal. Open Vld co-signed it, for which I am grateful. It also shows that it cannot go on in this way. If this proposal is rejected, I certainly have no resentment, but be sure that we will then come up with this proposal again in the next legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u175	No other speaker may speak. No one can speak any more. The vote on the proposal to reject the bill will take place later. The vote on the proposal to reject this bill will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u176	Under the law of 7 February 2014 on the organisation of the electronic ballot with paper evidence, the Chamber should appoint three effective and three alternate members of the Permanent College before the elections of 26 May 2019. One of the effective members must be a lawyer, the other effective and alternate members must be informants. On the basis of the law of 7 February 2014 organizing electronic voting with hard evidence and with a view to the elections of 26 May 2019, the House must appoint three effective members and three alternate members of the Permanent College. One of the permanent members must be a lawyer, and the other members and alternate members must be computer scientists. The Chamber must also appoint two members of the non-permanent College. They must be informants. The House must also appoint two members of the Non-Permanent College. They must be computer scientists. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 February 2019, I propose that the following experts be appointed: In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 February 2019, I propose that you appoint the following experts: Permanent college: Permanent College: Effective members: - Mr Bruno De Nys (N) - Mr Jérome Dossogne (F) Mr Karel Van Geyt (N) (Master of Laws). Effective members: - M. Bruno De Nys(N) - Mr. Jerome Dossogne (F) - M. Karel Van Geyt (N) (jurist). Deputy members: - Ms Sophie Jonckheere (N) - Mr Jean-Marc Paul (F) Mr Erwin Vereecken (N). Alternate members: - Ms. Sophie Jonckheere (N) - Mr. Jean-Marc Paul (F) - M. Erwin Vereecken (N). Niet-permanent college: - Mr Bruno Penne (N) - Mr Pol Badoux (F). Non-permanent college: - Mr. Bruno Penne (N) - M. Pol Badoux (F). Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u177	The Government requested urgent procedure under Rule 51 of the Rules of Procedure when submitting the following draft laws: The government requested urgency pursuant to rule 51 of the Rules when introducing the following bills: - Draft law on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, No. 3554/1. - Bill on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, No. 3554/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u178	Mr President, as you have said, this emergency request contains the various emergency measures to be implemented to deal with the consequences of Brexit and relating to employment, the Economy, Finance, Energy, Asylum and Migration. The draft should be reviewed before 29 March, when the United Kingdom is expected to leave the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u179	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u180	- Draft Law amending the Finance Act of 21 December 2018 for the financial year 2019, No. 3556.1. - Draft law adjusting the Finance Act of 21 December 2018 for the 2019 budget year, No. 3556/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u181	Mr President, this is indeed the draft law on the adjustment of the finance law of 21 December 2018 which allows to ensure, with the three provisional twelfths, the continuity of the state. The aim here is to deal, by Friday 15 March at the latest, with the payment of certain pensions, with the expiry of an OLA on 28 March or with the payment of compulsory international contributions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u182	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u183	The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 February 2019, I also propose that you consider: - the legislative proposal (Mr Benoît Piedboeuf cs) laying down various provisions on agriculture and certain budgetary funds and on social integration, No. 3551/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u184	- the legislative proposal (Mrs Sybille de Coster-Bauchau cs) amending the VAT law book in order not to levy VAT on non-foods donated to the most deprived persons, No. 3559/1; - the motion for a resolution (Mrs Vanessa Matz) on the adoption at European level of a Pact to finance investment in climate matters, No. 3565/1; - the legislative proposal (Mrs Leen Dierick and Mrs Griet Smaers) amending the Law of 2 August 2002 on the supervision of the financial sector and financial services, No. 3568/1; - the legislative proposal (Mrs Griet Smaers) to make legal aid insurance more accessible, No. 3560/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u185	- the legislative proposal (Mrs Leen Dierick and Mrs Griet Smaers) amending certain provisions of book XI of the Code of Economic Law on private copying, No. 3569/1; - the bill (Mrs Griet Smaers and Mrs Leen Dierick) laying down various provisions on economics, No. 3570/1; - the bill (Mrs Leen Dierick) laying down various provisions relating to the payment of the invoice and amending the law of 20 December 2002 on the amicable recovery of consumer debts, No. 3571/1; - the legislative proposal (Mr Kristof Calvo and Mr Jean-Marc Nollet) amending the law of 11 April 2003 on facilities for the decommissioning of nuclear power stations and for the management of nuclear fuel irradiated in these nuclear power stations, No. 3573/1; - the legislative proposal (Mr Frank Wilrycx and Mrs Leen Dierick) amending the Act of 29 April 1999 on the organisation of the electricity market with a view to introducing a competitive tendering procedure for the construction and operation of production facilities in the sea areas under the jurisdiction of Belgium, No. 3581/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u186	- the legislative proposal (Mr Gautier Calomne cs) amending the Civil Code in order to provide for marriages to take place on Sundays and/or public holidays, No. 3564/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u187	- the bill (Mrs Karine Lalieux cs) setting up free of charge train transport by SNCB for those under 26 years of age, No. 3566/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u188	- the bill (Mr Wouter Beke cs) for the greening of commercial vehicles, No. 3572/1; - the legislative proposal (Mrs Sonja Becq and Mrs Sybille de Coster-Bauchau and Mr David Clarinval and Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne) laying down various provisions on pensions, No. 3577/1; - the bill (Mr David Clarinval, Mrs Sybille de Coster-Bauchau, Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne and Mrs Sonja Becq) relating to the half-time pension, No. 3578/1; - the legislative proposal (Mr David Clarinval and Ms Sybille de Coster-Bauchau) amending the Law of 22 March 2001 establishing a guarantee of income for the elderly, No. 3580/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u189	- the bill (Mrs Kattrin Jadin and Mr Tim Vandenput and Vincent Van Peteghem) amending the Law of 21 December 2013 on the Consular Code and the Law of 10 February 2015 on automated processing of personal data necessary for the Belgian passports and travel documents, No. 3574/1; - the motion for a resolution (Mr Wouter De Vriendt and Mrs Véronique Waterschoot) on the Belgian mandate in the UN Security Council, No. 3579/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u190	- the legislative proposal (Mr Philippe Pivin cs) amending the Law of 11 December 1998 on classification and security clearances, safety attestations and safety advice, No. 3575/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u191	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 20 February 2019, I also propose that you take into account: - the proposal for a law (Mr Benoît Piedboeuf et al.) laying down various provisions in the field of agriculture, concerning certain budgetary funds and in the field of social integration, No 3551/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u192	- the proposal for a law (Ms Sybille de Coster-Bauchau et al.) amending the VAT Code to make VAT non-applicable in the case of donations of non-food goods to the poorest, No. 3559/1; - the motion for a resolution (Ms Vanessa Matz) on the adoption of a finance-climate pact at European level, No 3565/1; - the bill (Ms. Leen Dierick and Griet Smaers) amending the Act of 2 August 2002 on supervision of the financial sector and financial services, No. 3568/1; - the proposal for a law (Ms Griet Smaers) to make legal protection insurance more accessible, No. 3560/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u193	- the bill (Ms. Len Dierick and Griet Smaers) amending certain provisions of Book XI of the Code of Economic Law concerning private copying, No. 3569/1; - the proposal for a law (Ms Griet Smaers and Leen Dierick) laying down various provisions on the economy, No. 3570/1; - the bill (Ms. Leen Dierick) on various provisions relating to the payment of the invoice and amending the Act of 20 December 2002 on the amicable recovery of consumer debts, No. 3571/1; - the bill (MM. Kristof Calvo and Jean-Marc Nollet) amending the Act of 11 April 2003 on provisions for the dismantling of nuclear power plants and for the management of irradiated fissile material in such nuclear power plants, No. 3573/1; - the proposal for a law (Mr Frank Wilrycx and Ms Len Dierick) amending the Act of 29 April 1999 on the organisation of the electricity market with a view to introducing a competition procedure for the construction and operation of production facilities in marine areas under the jurisdiction of Belgium, No 3581/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u194	- the draft law (Mr Gautier Calomne et al.) amending the Civil Code in order to authorize the celebration of marriages on Sundays and/or public holidays, No. 3564/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u195	- the proposal for a law (Ms. Karine Lalieux et al.) free of charge for SNCB transport for persons under 26 years of age, No. 3566/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u196	- the proposal for a law (Mr Wouter Beke et al.) concerning the greening of company cars, No. 3572/1; - the bill (Ms. Sonja Becq and Sybille de Coster-Bauchau and MM. David Clarinval and Vincent Van Quickenborne) with various pension provisions, No 3577/1; - the draft law (Mr David Clarinval, Mrs Sybille de Coster-Bauchau, Mr Vincent Van Quickenborne and Mrs Sonja Becq) on part-time pension, No 3578/1; - the draft law (Mr David Clarinval and Mrs Sybille de Coster-Bauchau) amending the Act of 22 March 2001 establishing an income guarantee for the elderly, No 3580/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u197	- the bill (Ms Kattrin Jadin and MM. Tim Vandenput and Vincent Van Peteghem) amending the Law of 21 December 2013 on the Consular Code and the Law of 10 February 2015 on automated processing of personal data necessary for Belgian passports and travel documents, No 3574/1; - the motion for a resolution (Mr Wouter De Vriendt and Mrs Véronique Waterschoot) on Belgium's mandate to the UN Security Council, No 3579/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u198	- the proposal for a law (Mr Philippe Pivin et al.) amending the Act of 11 December 1998 on classification and authorizations, certificates and safety notices, No. 3575/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u199	I also suggest that you consider: - the legislative proposal (Mrs Rita Bellens) amending the law of 4 April 2014 on insurance in order to provide a regulatory framework for authorised authors, No. 3583/1; - the legislative proposal (Mr Benoît Friart) amending the Act of 29 April 1999 on the organisation of the electricity market with a view to establishing a capacity compensation mechanism, No. 3584/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u200	I also propose that you take into account: - the bill (Ms. Rita Bellens) amending the Insurance Act of 4 April 2014 to provide a regulatory framework for mandated policyholders, No. 3583/1; - the proposal for a law (Mr. Benoît Friart) amending the Act of 29 April 1999 on the organization of the electricity market, establishing a capacity compensation mechanism, No. 3584/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u201	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u202	Mr President, I am asking for the urgency of proposal No 3551 because it concerns essentially four subjects. One of these issues relates to the accounting management of the animal fund, the other relates to support measures in the fipronil sector. These projects should have been tabled before December 31, 2018, but the Legislation section of the Council of State took a little longer than expected. It is absolutely necessary to give a legal basis to these two funds. In addition, there is also the need for rapid implementation of the GDPR at the AFSCA level, as well as a regulation on the home Godtschalck which must be able to use state accounting, and therefore be lightened and considered a decentralized service.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u203	I would suggest that we speak on this question. I propose that we take a decision on this request.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u204	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u205	Colleagues, there appears to have been a mistake. We will cancel this vote and we will vote again. Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 2) Yes 70 Yes No. 50 No Abstentions 6 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the draft law. It will be submitted to the King for ratification. (3382/8) As a result, the House passed the bill. It will be subject to Royal Assent. (3382/8) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u206	Vote on Amendment No 1 by Ahmed Laaouej cs on Article 3. (3381/9) Vote on Amendment No 1 by Ahmed Laaouej cs to Article 3. (3381/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 3) Yes [[43]] Yes No. 70 No Abstentions 14 Abstensions Total 127 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 6 by Kristof Calvo cs on Article 3. (3381/9) Vote on Amendment No 6 by Kristof Calvo cs to Article 3. (3381/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 51 Yes No. 76 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 127 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 7 by Kristof Calvo cs on Article 3. (3381/9) Vote on Amendment No 7 by Kristof Calvo cs to Article 3. (3381/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 5) Yes 76 Yes No. [[46]] No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 127 Total The amendment was therefore adopted. Consequently, the amendment was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 8 by Kristof Calvo cs on Article 3. (3381/9) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Kristof Calvo cs to Article 3. (3381/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 6) Yes [[43]] Yes No. 79 No Abstentions 5 Abstensions Total 127 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Article 3, as amended, is deleted. Article 3, as amended, was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 2 by Ahmed Laaouej cs on Article 4. (3381/9) Vote on Amendment No 2 by Ahmed Laaouej cs to Article 4. (3381/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 7) Yes 50 Yes No. 75 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 125 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 4 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 3 by Ahmed Laaouej cs on Article 10. (3381/9) Vote on Amendment No 3 by Ahmed Laaouej cs to Article 10. (3381/9) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u207	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 9 by Kristof Calvo cs on article 10. (3381/9) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Kristof Calvo cs to Article 10. (3381/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 8) Yes 51 Yes No. [[74]] No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 10 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 10 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 10 by Evita Willaert cs on Article 19. (3381/9) Vote on Amendment No 10 by Evita Willaert cs to Article 19. (3381/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 9) Yes 51 Yes No. 77 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 19 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 19 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 11 by Evita Willaert cs on Article 21. (3381/9) Vote on Amendment No 11 by Evita Willaert cs to Article 21. (3381/9) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u208	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 21 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 21 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 12 by Evita Willaert cs to omit Article 22. (3381/9) Vote on Amendment No 12 by Evita Willaert cs to delete Article 22. (3381/9) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can it be considered? That the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u209	Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 22 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 22 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 4 by Ahmed Laaouej cs on Article 23. (3381/9) Vote on Amendment No 4 by Ahmed Laaouej cs to Article 23. (3381/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 10) Yes 51 Yes No. [[74]] No Abstentions 3 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 23 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 23 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 5 by Ahmed Laaouej cs to insert an Article 23/1(n). (3381/9) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Ahmed Laaouej cs to insert an Article 23/1(n). (3381/9) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u210	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 13 by Kristof Calvo cs to insert a chapter IV/1(n). (3381/9) Vote on Amendment No 13 by Kristof Calvo cs to insert a Chapter IV/1(n). (3381/9) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 11) Yes 56 Yes No. 71 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 127 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 14 by Kristof Calvo cs to insert an article 25/1(n). (3381/9) Vote on Amendment No 14 by Kristof Calvo cs to insert an Article 25/1(n). (3381/9) Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u211	The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. We cannot vote on the draft law as a whole, which is set out in the Rules of Procedure (Art. 95.3 of the Rules of Procedure). We will vote on it next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u212	Vote on Amendment No 4 by Barbara Beware of Article 2. (3032/6) Vote on Amendment No. 4 by Barbara Not to Article 2. (3032/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 12) Yes 5 Yes No. 123 No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Consequently, the amendment was rejected and Article 2 was adopted. Vote on Amendment No 2 by André Frédéric to insert an article 3(n). (3032/5) Vote on Amendment No 2 by André Frédéric to insert an Article 3(n). (3032/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 13) Yes 30 Yes No. 87 No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 127 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 5 by Yoleen Van Camp to insert an article 3(n). (3032/6) Vote on Amendment No 5 by Yoleen Van Camp to insert an Article 3(n). (3032/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 30 Yes No. 96 No Abstentions 2 Abstensions Total 128 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected. Vote on Amendment No 3 by André Frédéric to insert an article 4(n). (3032/5) Vote on Amendment No. 3 by André Frédéric to insert an Article 4(n). (3032/5) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Voting/vote 15) Yes 30 Yes No. 87 No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 127 Total The amendment was therefore rejected. Consequently, the amendment was rejected.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u213	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 16) Yes 36 Yes No. 2............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 90 Abstensions Total 128 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (3032/7) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (3032/7) Reason for abstinence? Reason for abstention? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u214	Vote on Amendment No 8 by Nathalie Muylle cs to Article 3. (3230/6) Vote on Amendment No 8 by Nathalie Muylle cs on article 3. (3230/6) Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 17) Yes 126 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 126 Total Consequently, the amendment was adopted. The amendment was therefore adopted. Article 3, as amended, was adopted. Article 3 as amended is adopted. Vote on Amendment No 9 by Nathalie Muylle cs to Article 8. (3230/6) Vote on Amendment No 9 by Nathalie Muylle cs on Article 8. (3230/6) Can we consider that the result of the previous vote is valid for it? Can the result of the previous vote also apply to this vote? [[Yes]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u215	Consequently, the amendment was adopted. The amendment was therefore adopted. Article 8, as amended, was adopted. Article 8 as amended is adopted. Ms. Julie Fernandez Fernandez and Ms. Kattrin Jadin voted in favour. Amendments 8 and 9 were adopted. As a result, we will be voting on the proposal ourselves next week (Art. 95.3 of the Rules of Procedure).
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u216	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 18) Yes 101 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 26 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (2902/6) Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (2902/6) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u217	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 19) Yes [[120]] Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 7 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (2769/8) Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (2769/8) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u218	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u219	Yes [[60]] Yes No. 57 No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 127 Total Consequently, the Court accepts the rejection proposal. The Bill No. 3009/1 was therefore rejected. Accordingly, the board adopts the proposal to reject. Bill No. 3009/1 is therefore rejected. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u220	Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. (Vote/vote 21) Yes 54 Yes No. 63 No Abstentions 10 Abstensions Total 127 Total The Court therefore rejects the rejection proposal. Accordingly, the Board rejects the proposal to reject it. Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] According to the Rules of Procedure (Rule 88) there are now three possibilities. We can proceed immediately with the examination of the proposal, which I do not think is appropriate. We can also deal with the proposal in another plenary session. However, it seems to me most appropriate to return the proposal to the Committee on the Interior. Can the Chamber live with that? There are three regulatory options. Either we continue with this proposal, now, in plenary session. That doesn't sound very wise to me. Either, we are dealing with it in a plenary session next week. Either we send her back to the commission. I propose this last solution. My proposal has been accepted? [[Assent]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-21-54-plenair-ip271x.u221	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 28 February 2019. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, February 28, 2019. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 28 February 2019 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, February 28, 2019 at 2:15 p.m.
