ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1022x.u1	Mr President, Minister, we have already debated in plenary the impact of radiation standards and the auctioning of mobile frequencies, in particular 900 megahertz, 1 800 megahertz and 2 100 megahertz. Those licences shall expire in March 2021. Consequently, a new auction should take place, which should actually be organised now, for the licences for the next twenty years and also for the new frequencies, namely 700 megahertz, 1 400 megahertz and 3 600 megahertz. The deployment of the 5G network should take place from 2020. In the plenary session and in previous committee meetings, I referred to the press conference in the 2018 budget negotiations, in which some of them were put forward. We have already discussed the impact of a fourth player in general on employment in the sector. The current players, alongside Agoria and others, have warned about job losses, which is currently very topical. This has already been discussed in plenary. Mr Minister, first of all I would like to ask you about the state of play in the fourth player's file. In Parliament and in the media, you have said that you are in favour of a fourth player. However, there is a text circulating in Parliament which encourages us to deal with it with caution, as employment in the sector would fall as a result of the arrival of a fourth player. My second question concerns the roll-out of mobile networks. In doing so, I referred to the hearing with representatives of BIPT on 5 December 2018, which considered the impact of radiation standards on the roll-out of mobile networks. In more detail, the Brussels radiation standards were discussed. The radiation standards are part of the regional powers, but of course they have an important impact on a federal auction. The current Brussels standards do not allow the construction of a 5G network in addition to the current 2G, 3G and 4G networks, given the permitted number of volts per meter. I read that the Brussels Government has promised to raise the standard to 14.5 volts per metre. In its analysis, BIPT pointed out that the 2G, 3G and 4G networks still exist for a very long period of time, as there are still many SIM cards in circulation: 23% of the current SIM cards would not be 4G compatible. Therefore, stopping 2G is not yet for immediate. In addition, BIPT stated here in its presentation that additional measures should be taken to roll out the 5G network with MIMO technology, so that high data speeds and low response times can be offered, especially for the internet or things. The wonder of the slides of the BIPT was that it was stated that the permitted radiation standard should rise to 41.5 volts per metre, a radiation standard higher than the World Health Organisation standard. That would also be for a segment of three operators. Mr Minister, I come to my questions. What is the impact of regional radiation standards on the federal auction of different licenses? Have you discussed this with the Regions? If the fourth operator arrives, what impact does this have on the current standard of radiation standards in Brussels? Those were my technical questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1022x.u2	Mr President, Mr Geerts, you mentioned in your question that the regions decide on radiation standards autonomously. The 5G network requires a higher radiation standard per antenna. However, people who do not use the device must be subjected to less radiation. The BIPT has briefed you on this in detail. The figure of 41.5 volts per meter, to which you refer, is also a figure in optimal conditions. However, you will understand that even under less conditions that network is perfectly deployable. The 5G network is essential in order to be able to offer a number of new services and products in the future. First of all, it is about the internet or things, but there will also be many other applications due to the roll-out of the 5G network. The impact on spectrum distribution is also described in the study of the BIPT of 12 July 2018, which you can find online. There are three additional bands on the market: one of 700 megahertz, one of 1 400 megahertz and one of 3 600 megahertz. Even with a fourth player, if he got there, there would be additional spectrum for the existing players, due to the new bands that are made available. Because there will be an effective increase in data traffic, it is important that there is sufficient spectrum. We will look at who will bid and how, but after the auction the operators will have to adapt. The adjustment must also be done without a fourth player. The roll-out will be carried out in such a way that maximum data traffic can happen. As regards the state of play for the auction, a Consultation Committee will be held on 6 February 2019. This is about the legislative framework for organising the auction and possibly allowing a fourth player to participate in the auction and thus to be introduced into the market. There's no way that fourth player's gonna make it. We'll look into that. The auction is set up in such a way that it is possible. We will look at which parties will be effectively present at that time. It's already about a competitive market. A lot of changes are noticeable in the field of employment. That was noticeable at Proximus, where the management has also publicly stated that there is no impact of the fourth player yet. It is a transformation caused by the normal functioning of the market. This is not obvious, of course, but, as you know, the social dialogue is still under way. In this respect, it is also clear that the various operators, not only Proximus but also the others, will have to adapt to the situation and position themselves on that market, which is not only national but also international, in order to reduce the costs they have today and to improve and optimise services to customers, as well as to ensure that the tilting moment on which the various operators are located is fully exploited by them in order to sustain additional job creation and investment in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1022x.u3	Mr President, Minister, there is another question I forgot to put orally, but it was in my written preparation. What is the status of the Consultation Committee? Is the aspect of radiation standards included or only the auction in relation to the media and the like?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1022x.u4	Questions have been asked about that. The different regions have asked questions, they have received answers and it is now up to them to make a choice. So they have enough information to make that decision sound.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1022x.u5	Mr. President, Minister, cyberspace is tomorrow's potential battlefield. He's already in the spy business. The security of our strategic technological infrastructures must therefore be ensured in order to protect data from possible espionage and to keep control of an increasing number of key public and private services that depend on digital technology in the face of a risk of piracy. This dependency, along with the associated risks, will be increased for sectors such as energy and mobility with the upcoming deployment of 5G. It is easy to imagine disaster scenarios, for example, involving autonomous cars, as many films have already imagined. As a result, many European countries, as well as the United States, Australia and New Zealand, express concern about the involvement of foreign firms, such as the Chinese Huawei group, which is closely linked to the Chinese state. Some of these countries, including Germany, are considering excluding or have already excluded Huawei from the 5G deployment market. I would add that on 27 January, operator Vodafone communicated that he was going to exclude Huawei from his core equipment. Minister, what do you think of the risk that many countries see in the deployment of equipment from companies like Huawei in our telecommunications networks? Do you work with the intelligence and security services on this? Does the Belgian Cyber Security Coalition work on the subject? What are you doing to address these risks? Should new safety standards be established at European and Belgian level? Are you considering amendments to the Electronic Communications Act? What changes do you think should be considered? What measures are being taken in the context of the transfer of operations from the ASTRID network to the networks of private operators to limit exposure to risk? What is the status of 5G deployment in our country? To what extent is Huawei involved in this deployment? To what extent has this undertaking been involved in the deployment of the existing telecom network? Which operators use equipment in their networks? Is this equipment used for the core of the network? Finally, as a liberal minister, what do you think Europe must face up to the economic policy of the Chinese state in support of its technological champions?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1022x.u6	Mr President, Mrs Goffinet, according to the information I have at present, several countries have adopted prohibition measures concerning the acquisition of mobile and fixed network components by operators located in those countries. These are the United States, New Zealand and Australia. To this end, they invoke national security reasons. At the moment, I have no information on the factual elements that would justify such decisions being taken in Belgium. No European country has adopted similar measures. However, assessments are under way in the Netherlands and Germany. In Belgium, several departments are in consultation with a view to collecting as much information as possible and analysing the situation with regard to this file as for others. This is not just about the network. Analyses are also carried out on the security of electronic communications networks in particular. At the level of the European institutions, the European Commission is carrying out work on the subject as well as the European Network and Information Security Agency on certification and the establishment of safety standards. No recommendations from these bodies have been communicated so far. We are waiting for the European strategy. An informed assessment must be carried out to ensure that the instruments available to the IBPT sector regulator are adequate for the problem, particularly in the context of the preparation of transposition into federal law. It's in progress. The European Electronic Communications Code is also an important element. We already know that the IBPT has expertise in network security. The issue is also the responsibility of other safety authorities, which are currently in concert. The proposed Royal Decree on the 700 MHz band provides that an operator may enter into an agreement with ASTRID to adapt its network to make it compatible with the specifications of a public protection and disaster relief network. Radio coverage measures – robustness, security, availability – are implemented and play an important role. This draft royal decree also provides that in the event of disagreement between an operator and ASTRID, the Ministers of Telecommunications and the Interior may impose, after the advice of the IBPT, the implementation of specific minimum measures on the operator. The key element is that different operators may be subject to certain constraints. For 5G, this is not planned until 2020. The timing is clear and not clear since it also depends on the regions. The existing networks of mobile operators use equipment from Huawei and ZTE. It is therefore likely that these two Chinese equipment manufacturers are involved in the deployment of 5G in Belgium as well. However, this depends on the choice of the different operators. To be clear, as far as I am concerned, I am in favour of the free market, but these free trade must not be disrupted by illegal state aid. This is why a dialogue is under way between the European Commission and China on state aid. I would like to point out here that it is Europe that has competence in the field of international trade. The aim is to clarify how to act in different situations. In this respect, I believe it would be important to define a European strategy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1022x.u7	Minister, thank you for your response. I take note of the fact that you are waiting for information and that an evaluation is under way. However, it would be important to know what already exists in the existing network. You said it was possible to have Huawei equipment in the latter. It seems to me that it would be appropriate to exercise caution and to carry out an evaluation of the system that currently exists.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1022x.u8	The IBPT has already done so.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1022x.u9	In any case, these are important measures. And it is clear that things are moving in Germany and the Netherlands. But I note that you are attentive to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1022x.u10	The subject will also be discussed in detail tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1022x.u11	Mr President, Minister, we have already had a political debate in plenary. My question has also been largely dealt with there, but I would like to ask a second point. I agree with you that Proximus' digital transformation plan had to take place, but we probably disagree about the impact of the announcement of a possible fourth telecom player. We all have our views on this and we probably continue to disagree on it. My position is that this announcement policy has speeded things up. The digital transformation plan is actually for me now that I can take a concrete look at it after our debate in plenary, a flat-rate savings plan. I have been following this committee and the company Belgacom/Proximus for a long time. There's never been any mention of naked layoffs in the past, as it is now. That makes this a negative tilting moment. Proximus wants to stop the collaboration with 1 900 people and, moreover, 900 people who retire will not be replaced. Another 1 500 jobs are lost in the contact centers. So the Prime Minister's creed "jobs, jobs, jobs" is absolutely not on the table here. After all, there is a net job loss of 4 500 employees. The new jobs for highly educated people go to BICS or to the United States, Luxembourg, Sri Lanka, India and to the call centres in Morocco. That is the result of the policy: Proximus is now saying that it must save EUR 200 million in order to achieve its turnover, but it is only the employees who pay the fee for the EUR 200 million. The dividend of 520 million euros remains constant, of which the federal government will receive 260 million euros. Sinterklaas keeps coming for the budget, but for the affected workers it is far from certain that Sinterklaas will still be coming. I have the following specific questions, Minister. Has the matter been further discussed in the government after the debate in plenary, for example on the deadline for redundancies (2020-2021) and ongoing collective bargaining? Has the government already looked at the impact on the staff at the call centres, which falls within the competence of Minister Peeters?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1022x.u12	Mr President, you know that, together with the Prime Minister and the Minister of Work, I met the management of Proximus to get more information on the content of the plans. After that, we also sat together with the trade unions to listen to their concerns. Social dialogue is currently under way. I also want to respect this, and that is why I will not answer some of your questions or answer them in a very general way. After all, I believe that the ball is now with management and trade unions. They need to look at how they want to shape the transformation plan, which is much wider than just personnel policy. The plan goes much further, and I would also urge you to keep that in mind: it is about the positioning of Proximus in the future. That is why I believe that social dialogue should be given every opportunity. Several options will probably be on the table. What is or is not possible will have to be demonstrated by the social dialogue. I think it is important that this consultation can take place in peace. You also know that Proximus' transformation plan looks at how to optimize the network, production, service offering and the IT platform. That also makes sense, because the costs that Proximus carries as a historical operator are simply much higher than those of its competitors. This is a very competitive market and therefore Proximus must intervene on those costs. That also makes sense to me. The transformation plan has developed a very clear vision, which will undoubtedly be explained by the CEO tomorrow, on how they want to deal with the increased digitisation of consumers and businesses in order to continue offering competitive prices. In this way, they want to ensure the long-term survival of the company. In my view, these are a number of aspects that I have taken into account in the discussions I have had with management and trade unions. The debate on the call centres will also have to be discussed in the social dialogue. Choices will also have to be made in this area. I cannot express my opinion on this, because this is a choice that management must make.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1022x.u13	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I must give you a compliment first, because I have also seen the syndicates and they have told me that they have seen you more than your predecessor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1022x.u14	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1022x.u15	I would like to say that there was not enough attention from the custody authorities for the company itself. That was one of the problems in this file. I know that this is an autonomous public undertaking, but I believe that the main shareholder, in an autonomous public undertaking in which the government has 53% of the shares, still has a certain responsibility, especially on the board of directors and possibly through a government commissioner, who has long since been gone. The debate will continue tomorrow. As far as the cost structure of the historic operator is concerned, I know that investment is taking place. However, when I look at the loan burden and the way investments are made, including with regard to other operators, I believe that the transformation could have been prepared in a more widespread way. I will discuss this with those concerned tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-29-54-commissie-ic1022x.u16	In the absence of any other questioners, this brings us to the end of the oral questions.
