ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u1	Minister, a future mother who falls ill during the six weeks before delivery, sees her postnatal leave planed. An injustice that affects on average one in ten mothers. Currently, days of illness prior to delivery are automatically converted to maternity rest and deducted from the fifteen weeks of rest to which women are entitled in Belgium. Postnatal leave can be reduced from a few days to several weeks. The moments spent with the newborn, which are essential for the child's development and for the parent-child relationship, are therefore shortened. This has a perverse effect: mothers are forced to work as long as possible until delivery, sometimes in spite of warnings given by their doctors. This situation also does not help employers because it is possible that the mothers concerned will fall back. I speak knowingly, having myself experienced health problems a few weeks from the birth of my little boy. We don't choose to be sick. The period before birth is one in which we normally have to be serene, joyful, where we finish the final preparations. In the end, we women are penalized twice: before – having had the bad luck of being ill or injured – and after childbirth, by being able to spend less time with our child because of this legislation. Minister, I believe that there is an urgent need to act and review the legislation in this area. Together with my colleagues in the PS group, on 9 July we tabled a bill to eliminate this inequality of treatment between future mothers. It was presented in committee. I would like to know that she was your position in this regard? Do you feel that there is a need for rapid changes to the legislation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u2	Thank you for your question. Historically, the raison d'être of the maternity rest period is the protection of the pregnant woman and the woman who has just given birth, as well as her child. It is not for nothing that the legislation deals with maternity protection, prenatal rest and postnatal rest. When I read the bill to which you refer, I find that the authors did not take this into account. I note that society's vision of maternity rest is changing: it is less and less seen as a period of protection and increasingly as a period of leave during which the mother can take care of her newborn. Of course, the relationship between parents and their child is important. It is for this reason that, thanks to thematic leave, such as parental leave, we want to offer workers the opportunity to find a balance between work and family life. If we are to talk about the protection of vulnerable mothers, we must not only consider the period of maternity rest, but also the position of pregnant women and the obstacles to women's participation in the labour market, not to mention the role of the father, even when there is no known father. Europe has also become aware of this: the European Commission has made a proposal in this context to promote work-life balance for parents and co-parents. His approach is much broader. The European Union raises the question of how to better adapt the relationship between work and private life. What means could be used to that end? These are measures within different areas of competence. I am thinking in particular of measures to reduce the cost of childcare, to improve the quality of this reception, to better adjust the thematic leave, also for fathers and co-parents. There are indeed a number of challenges to better support working parents through smart measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u3	Thank you. I hear this is a broader debate. I can adhere to that, but we must start somewhere. To quickly get around the table in committee in relation to this bill will, I hope, make it possible to broaden the debate. It is not enough to say that Europe must go further and talk about childcare, the cost of childcare (it is known that this depends on the regions). I think we need to start with something. Even if this is not the only step to take, our bill is a first step to protect or at least ensure the necessary weeks between the mother and her child after delivery.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u4	Madam Minister, the day after the signing of the Flemish government agreement, which included a measure to improve the tax deductibility of service cheques, the Neutraal Ziekenfonds Vlaanderen announced that it would match 1 euro per service cheque. It wants to support the work-life balance. We can ask ourselves a few questions about that. Is it the social task of a health insurance fund to support household help by paying back service cheques? I believe that this is going in the direction of political policy rather than health protection. In the future pact with the sickness funds, you have made it a major point of evolving towards the sole reimbursement of evidence-based cases that contribute to public health. I don't think this has anything to do with health. Hence my questions. What is your response to the award of that additional benefit? What is the current state of play in the process of making the compulsory supplementary insurance more evidence-based? One had to make an exercise, but did that result much? Has anything been made mandatory in the meantime? Has the Neutraal Ziekkenfonds Vlaanderen broken an existing agreement with the decision to refund the service cheques? If so, what steps do you intend to take?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u5	Mrs van Peel, I also believe that the current legal and regulatory framework on the benefits of compulsory supplementary insurance is too broad. The sickness funds, which are associations of natural persons, must ensure that the services of supplementary insurance are brought to the essence and directly benefit the health of insured persons. The supplementary insurance is about contributions from members. You're talking about an obligation. I have agreed in the future pact with the insurance institutions to make the payments of supplementary compulsory insurance more evidence-based. Some funds have taken measures to this effect, for example by not repaying homeopathy. We have talked about many different measures, but a number of things are still under discussion. Before making decisions, there must also be a consensus with all VIs. For some, that's a number of bridges too far. There are several more issues that require further discussion. Nevertheless, that pact will be followed up. We do that together. They evaluate and make proposals. They are, of course, autonomous in that. It is also intended that they should agree on this and that this should be discussed together. The current political situation does not make it easier to take further legislative initiative in this area. The legal basis for reforming compulsory supplementary insurance was included in the law on various health care provisions, but that law did not come into Parliament due to the premature dismissal of the previous government. It takes six to eight months for such a law to be prepared and fully ready, and all the necessary advice has been given, such as the advice of the Treasury Inspectorate. We planned to submit the bill in January or February 2019, well in time for the elections. Unfortunately, that hasn't gotten here anymore. The development of this more active commitment continues. We're working on that. To what extent the adjustment of 1 euro per service cheque contributes to health is also a question for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u6	Madam Secretary, I did not expect you to look at this in the same way. It's kind of far-fetched, too. Of course, you are right to say that you cannot do it now. That must be something that we will be working on in the next government. If there is to be a consensus between the various sickness funds, it may be a long time before it becomes concrete. As far as compulsory supplementary insurance is concerned, apart from what is evidence-based, my question has always been whether we can find a legal basis for not making this compulsory. It's actually a pliers on a pig, especially when it's used like this. It will indeed be up to the next government to continue to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u7	Madam President, the answers to my questions. I have already received 55000826 and 55000827 in writing, so they may be deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Van Peel. Questions 55000826 and 55000827 are therefore deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u9	As Ms. Jadin was not present, her question was moot. Mrs. Thémont, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u10	Minister, the National Union of Free Mutualities has recently published a large survey on disability. From 2007 to 2017, the number of people with long-term incapacity for work almost doubled from 242,086 to 404,657 in just ten years. The disability rate in Belgium increased from 5.4% to 8.4% during this period. This increase obviously affects our social security. Disability benefits for employees have thus increased from 2.4 billion to 5.4 billion euros. It is appropriate, Madam Minister, to reflect on the causes of this upsurge. In its full report, the National Union of Free Mutualities points to certain factors. If some of them are linked to the evolution of our society (increase of disabling health problems, epidemiological developments, etc.).), many are closely linked to the policy your government has pursued. For example, the tightening of access to the pension, which will worsen with the postponement of the pension age to 67 years, the tightening of working conditions – including the questioning of the 38-hour week – or the tightening of the conditions for access to the pre-pension, which will soon be inaccessible before the age of 60. As we know, you have put in place an arsenal to force the sick to return to work through reintegration plans. This is a failure since, in most cases, plans result in dismissal for force majeure and therefore without notice and compensation and because of this, employers have no obligation to make any effort to adapt the workplaces. In other words, rather than bringing the sick person closer to the job, it is still a little further away. Minister, my questions are as follows. What is your analysis of the situation? How will you correct the problems highlighted by the Free Mutualities? Will you ensure that employers take steps to adapt workplaces so that reintegration plans are not to the detriment of the sick person?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u11	Thank you for your question, Mrs. Thémont. It is true that the study you mention covers the period 2007 to 2017, but I will also add the data for 2018. First, there is the development of disability, i.e. a work incapacity of more than one year. The findings of the study carried out by the Free Mutualities are correct. The number of persons recognized as disabled in the paid and self-employed scheme has increased from about 242,000 to 404,000 in ten years. This increase is largely due to a few demographic factors. First of all, the increase in the population of compensable incumbents. Between 2007 and 2017, the insured population of wage-earners and self-employed persons combined increased from 4.45 million to 4.79 million, or 7.69% more. This demographic change already accounts for a small part of the increase observed. Secondly, the insured population is ageing. This is a much more important factor. In recent years, more and more people have been in the highest age categories. There are two reasons for this. This is the ageing of the population, but also the higher level of activity of people in the higher age groups, due in particular to the increased participation of women in the labour market up to an older age. I have a table with the numbers. It really shows that up to 39 years of age, the number of compensable holders declines to almost 44 years. Between 45 and 65 years of age, there is an 8% increase for 45-49 years of age, and up to 58% for 60-64 years of age. I can give you this picture and the colleagues. It really shows that the increase is after 45 years. It starts at 8% and stops at 58%. As the risk of disability increases with age, an older population will automatically result in a higher number of invalids. If we look at the probability of disability by age category, we find that the total probability has increased from 5.44% to 8.45%, which means more than 55% increase. However, this increase is less pronounced in the age groups where most of the disabled are in the 45-59 age group. The large total increase is therefore partly due to a shift to the higher age group: from 65 years onwards, the rate increases by 177 %. In addition to these demographic changes, we note the increasing importance of certain syndromes such as mental and musculoskeletal disorders, which are responsible for the increase in the number of invalids, a third for mental disorders. With regard to reintegration, many initiatives have been taken in recent years to activate persons who have been found to be incapacitated for work. The quick-scan is used to assess re-integration opportunities two months after the declaration of incapacity. There is also the reintegration route via the employer, which allows for dismissal on medical grounds. Then the patient is referred to the reintegration route provided by the mutualities. Secondly, I must mention professional reintegration. Part-time work can also be resumed. Some pilot projects aim to reactivate people with severe mental illness. The aim is to guide these people towards a return to the labour market. To the extent possible, attempts are made to bring them back to full-time work. However, for many people with disabilities, full return is impossible, in any case in the short term. They then use the system of part-time work. Prior to 2009, we do not have any data. But from 2009 to 2017, the number of invalids using this system increased from 19,000 to 47,000. By comparison, the number of invalids increased by 52% over the same period. The increase in the number of invalids must therefore also be partly taken into account, since an increasing number of invalids actually participate in the labour market, even if only partially. There are also conditions of recognition. In order to be recognised as unfit for work during the period of invalidity as an employed person, the conditions of Article 100(1) of the Law coordinated on 14 July 1994 must be met. The three conditions to be met cumulatively are: cessation of any activity, aggravation of injuries or functional disorders and loss of earning capacity at a rate of one third or less. In order to be deemed unfit for work during the period of invalidity as a self-employed worker, the conditions laid down in Article 20 of the Royal Decree of 20 July 1971 must be fulfilled. For medical reasons, you must have ceased self-employment or any other professional activity and must not be in a position to practise a profession. However, this should not lead to a social downgrading of the self-employed worker. The assessment of the above conditions has not been revised. With regard to the question on the adaptation of the workplace, I would like to refer you to the Minister of Employment, who is responsible for well-being at work, and to the Regions, who are competent to take measures for workers with permanent occupational disabilities. I will also send you the various paintings.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u12	Minister, thank you for your answers. The OECD findings, apart from a few countries such as the Netherlands or Finland, show that the scale of reforms undertaken in most countries, including Belgium, has not been sufficient to significantly reduce the use of sickness and disability benefits. OECD figures show that those countries that have adopted structural reforms that apply both the benefit system and the employment assistance system have experienced the largest declines in the disability rate. I have read reports that the greatest increases have been seen among women, who have seen their disability triple in the last 20 years. It is also regrettable that the amount paid by the patient for his or her health care during the period of primary incapacity for work is high, while it is known that his or her income has decreased significantly. You have talked about reintegration policies and I will not fail to question the minister in charge because it is time to do prevention so that companies can reintegrate workers in more appropriate conditions or offer them training plans based on their illness.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u13	Madam President, Minister, transparency and objective information on our social rights is an important issue, especially for those who have to be able to exhaust their rights. The fact that we do not yet automatically grant rights everywhere means that information is needed. At the beginning of October, I noticed that there was a reason for submitting this oral question on the then launched website gonna.be by Baloise Insurance, an insurance company that developed a tool in collaboration with the KU Leuven. Through a few simple questions, this tool calculates the replacement income that people may receive in the event of incapacity for work. It is reported that eight out of ten Belgians are already a figure to consider for a moment: they are not aware of the financial impact of long-term incapacity for work. For this reason, gonna.be seems to be a useful tool, as objective information on replacement income is provided. However, it is regrettable that the cat comes on the rope at the end of completing the questionnaire. Proper information is okay, but we still have to ask questions about the offer at the end of that questionnaire. After the information on replacement income, gonna.be points out that the calculated replacement income, a percentage of previously earned earnings, is likely to be insufficient to maintain the current standard of living. For this reason, there is an additional insurance scheme of the same kind as the one proposed by Mr Baloise, which proposes an additional replacement income, of course in exchange for a monthly insurance contribution. One sells, as it were, a product. The unpleasant thing is that users of the tool do not immediately notice that this initiative originates from one company, especially the insurer Baloise. The newspaper refers to this tool as "a new platform on a human scale." "Everyone can easily, anonymously and for free calculate the impact a disability will have on their monthly income and will soon have a future retirement and death." Those are quotes. The entire website has, of course consciously, the prospect of a scientifically sound and informative tool, also because there is a reference to the KU Leuven, a respected university in this country. It's not just Baloise who gets hurt by these practices. Besides Baloise, many other agencies, such as Bank van Breda, KBC, DKV, Vivium, Allianz and BNP Paribas, offer insurance for an additional replacement income. However, our platform seems to be rather a task of the government, as we already know with the MyPension tool. The pension is also calculated by what is commonly referred to as the "pension tower," the Federal Pension Service, and not by one or more insurers. I therefore have a simple question, Madam Secretary. What are your views on private initiatives such as gonna.be, which ultimately aim to provide people with insurance, to be clear and expressive? Is it not rather a task of the government, possibly with the help of civil society organisations, to inform citizens objectively about their social rights, such as a replacement income, which for many Belgians is an important income and an essential part of our social security?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u14	Mr Bertels, everyone knows that social risks, such as illness, accident or dismissal, occur unexpectedly. That's the thing about retirement. I wrote an article about this years ago: people are not concerned in advance with the question of how much pension they will receive. For most, it is also a shock if they have that calculated by MyPension. I have already heard in my surroundings that it is a shock for people to learn how low their pension is compared to their wages. The same goes for illness, accident and certainly dismissal. I am therefore not surprised that people cannot assess exactly how high their replacement income is. As long as people continue to work, there is little to do with this. People also think that their income will only increase and rely on it to pay off loans. If that goes wrong with one of the two, then it is indeed a surprise. I agree that information is important and that it should be provided by the government. We have already worked hard on this through the Charter signed by all social security institutions. We have also made the automatic granting of rights as easy as possible. There is also a lot of computerization. To provide information to the socially insured is thus one of the core tasks of the social security institutions. We also always try to provide all the information in a simple way, for example on statutes under which one can work, Student@work, Artist@work, updating and so on. So any social security institution is obliged to inform the public as clearly as possible about its rights. That obligation is double. A social insured person can, on the one hand, ask questions to an institution himself. On the other hand, the institution is obliged to take the initiative on its own initiative to inform the public. You know that. There are administrative agreements with public social security institutions. It also includes information engagements. There is also a task for assisting institutions, such as sickness funds, which are also covered by the Charter. In addition, health insurance funds are specifically responsive in the field of information provision. The financing of sickness funds depends in part on the performance of certain tasks. The general obligation to provide information to their members can also be evaluated in this context, whatever happens. With regard to the initiative of a private insurer to which you refer, I believe that insurers also have a role to play in social protection. If information which is at first sight given rather objectively, but in which the insurers replace the government, is intended to promote a supplementary insurance policy, whatever I see happening to other things, then of course it is more about recruiting customers, of which we cannot be in favour. Where do I want to go? I want to go to social protection in layers and in the form of a kind of cappuccino model. Instead of laying all the eggs in one basket, we are building up our social protection in layers. If something goes wrong, we can still fall back on the other layer and not everything falls away. There are risks associated with employment, such as pensions and unemployment. We put them in work insurance for everyone who works. So it's really a work-related insurance. The other risks, such as health care, are covered by basic insurance. When one gets sick, it doesn't matter whether or not one works. In the case of illness, health care interventions are entitled. With basic and work insurance, we provide a solid basis, allowing additional pillars, such as the second and third pillars, to be optional. There is therefore greater social protection when someone can rely on it. Both costs and replacement income should be covered by those first two, being the basic pillar and work insurance. I'm not a customer at Baloise, but I understand now why large buildings change identity and are bought by Baloise. On the building where Mrs Annemie Turtelboom and Mrs Elke Sleurs used to be, now stands in large letters Baloise. The whole building's being rebuilt. That will be for those supplementary insurances.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u15	Madam President, Madam Minister, first of all, with regard to what you call the cappuccino model: the discussion of whether basic insurance, universal insurance or occupational insurance, we can take on another time, the most important thing is that universal and occupational insurance is sufficient. They must protect the population sufficiently and must not force them to take supplementary insurance. Additional insurance may be useful, but the basic protection must be sufficiently worn, through a solidarity system, which applies to every Belgian, including the Belgian who does not have sufficient income to take supplementary insurance. In pension terminology, the first pillar is much more important than the second and third pillars. Secondly, I am pleased that you say that information should be provided by the government. You rightly refer to the charter of social security and the administrative agreements of the public social security institutions. However, you also know that there is still a way to go. There are good intentions, but there's definitely a little bit more to do there. The information does not always reach the citizens concerned in good time. Nor is it always obvious to ask a question. There is a great deal of information to be provided for this, whereas that information is actually available to the government. So we certainly still have a way to go there, because there is still no point in providing information on, for example, wages, which will enable social insurance to be calculated. The article you wrote yourself and to which you referred does not ring a bell to me, unfortunately. That's probably me. However, I assume that you referred to the exercise that the King Baudouin Foundation once did in relation to pensioners. This was a very broad exercise to inform pensioners in good time about their rights and to prepare for their pensions. I believe that this was a useful exercise and that we should repeat it once again for the socially insured in general. Finally, I am glad that you do not think it is possible to do so and I assume that you are keeping this in mind that information that the government must provide first is used, as you say, to "create additional insurance." That's a step too far. If we see that, even if it is to buy buildings, as you say, we must intervene and ensure that alternatives are offered to the socially insured, so that they can obtain that information without having to take additional insurance.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u16	Question No 55000906C by Mr Robby De Caluwé is postponed at his request.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u17	Madam Secretary, you have probably seen the reportage of VRT news, so I do not have to go into it too deeply. It showed that health insurance companies aren't so close to our privacy. Four out of five health insurance funds would share information about our surfing behavior with advertisers, who will then follow us on the Internet, even if we do not want to. Of course, that's the punch line of the story. Advertisers would know exactly what we're looking for, they're using that information to display personalized ads and influence our behavior. Because it occurs in the health sphere, this is problematic. The health insurance funds are not transparent about this at all, which is contrary to European privacy laws. The health insurance companies don't report any cookies. There's no way to refuse. It is reported that those who take a look at the pages of the sickness funds once, would then be followed by more than 120 different trackers. The law states that all websites processing personal data must let users know what information they store and what they do with it. In some cases, users must give their consent first. When it comes to medical information, the laws are rightly even stricter. The rules governing sensitive personal data apply. Such information can be used to discriminate or worse. The privacy risk is high. The fact that health insurance funds allow external parties to watch our surfing behavior, without our consent, is problematic. First of all, have you been in contact with the sickness funds as a result of the report? Are they aware that they are acting in violation of European privacy laws or are they talking about ignorance? Secondly, what measures do you intend to take in current cases, possibly in conjunction with the Minister responsible for the protection of privacy, so that personal data is treated confidentially by the health insurance funds?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u18	Mrs. Van Peel, I don't watch television, so I haven't seen the reportage. I've read about it. Indeed, the cabinet contacted the respective sickness funds. Following the media reports, a number of websites have also been investigated. All have a very detailed cookie policy page, some of which are very technical. Some require the user to search for the cookie policy page himself. Those websites lack the choice that the surfer should have in order to exclude a category of cookies. There are different types of cookies. There are the technical cookies, which are better not clickable, because otherwise the website does not work correctly. There are the tracking cookies, which are also better not to click out, because otherwise the website owner will no longer be able to see what is and what is not used. There are also analytical cookies, for which the same applies as for tracing cookies. Marketing cookies should be clickable, as should third party cookies. In addition, it should specify who the third parties are. The surfer can always leave the website if he or she does not want cookies. If the surfer does not accept the cookies, he or she may still use the website, but one loses sight of what is not accessible. In any case, the surfer should always be able to go to his online administrative file when not accepting the cookies. Basically, each health insurance institution must make it possible to exclude certain categories of cookie. That is not the case now. The sickness funds are aware of the shortcomings of their websites and they say they are currently working on a solution. Despite the apologies, however, the Data Protection Authority indicated that it would initiate its own investigation. They will therefore have to regulate their privacy laws at a rapid pace. We'll follow that up with them. One works a little faster than the other. The problem was that it was not taken into account enough. Most sickness funds have worked on their computerisation in recent years, but they have not anticipated it enough. The European GDPR has been coming a long time and the government has anticipated this. The administrations of Health and Social Affairs have prepared everything to work in accordance with privacy law. Apparently, this has not been done enough in the health insurance system.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u19	Madam Minister, I hope that the investigation of the Data Protection Authority will also be followed up, as you ensure. Secondly, I think it is very important that the sickness funds do not pay enough attention to such matters. In fact, I think they should go beyond just respecting the law in their cookie policy. Their general starting point should be that for someone who browses their pages, it should be very easy to just turn off the cookies. Let's face it, we all barely look at cookies. I am actually assuming that a health insurance fund that really wants to protect its members should make it very clear that it is better to deport them. After all, there is no reason to give advertisers access to what someone Googles in relation to their health. They should therefore go beyond what is required by law to provide additional protection for their members. I am not surprised that this has not been a priority; I certainly hope that they have really been shaken up.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u20	Madam President, Madam Minister, these combined questions concern my written question on the administrative fines imposed on insurance institutions between 2015 and 2018. Hospital funds have a role to play in the management of health insurance. They are obliged to comply with a number of administrative obligations. If they do not, a fine may be imposed on them by the lead official of the Administrative Control Service of the RIZIV. The nature of the fines and the amounts of fines linked to them vary. It is noteworthy that only three times the high fine of EUR 1,250 was imposed in the period from 2015 to 2018. This fine shall be imposed on the insurance undertaking if, despite a written warning, it fails to resolve the recurrent deficiencies of the same nature found in the organisation or in the file management within a period of 12 months. If you reduce that amount, you will already have many opportunities to solve cases, but if you do not, the sickness fund will receive a fine of EUR 1,250. All three fines were imposed in 2018 on the health insurance funds of the Socialist Landsbond. What I could not tell from your answer to my written question was the specific reason for the fines. What identified and recurring shortcomings in their organisation refused to resolve the socialist sickness funds concerned? My second question is as follows. From the figures based on the distribution according to the language role, I note that the French sickness funds receive much more fines than the Flemish sickness funds. Of the 651 administrative fines imposed in 2018, 419 (64%) were imposed on French-speaking sickness funds and 232 (36 %) on Flemish sickness funds. Of the 33 fines for the limitation of undue amounts, 31 went to French-speaking sickness funds. Of the 24 fines for paying too little or no benefit due to an own error, 23 went to French-speaking sickness funds. Of the 160 fines for paying undue or excessive benefits, 120 (77 %) went to French-speaking sickness funds. These figures show that the socialist sickness fund receives far more fines for errors than other sickness funds. As many as 50% of all fines go to the socialist national social security funds. However, they account for only 28% of all sickness fund members in Belgium. Madam Secretary, I have the following questions. First of all, do you have any explanation for the differences between the two parts of the country? Do you have any explanation for the differences between the sickness funds?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u21	Ms Van Peel, during the 2014 thematic check on implants and invasive medical devices carried out by the inspectors of the Administrative Control Office at the insurance institutions, the following infringements were identified which gave rise to administrative penalties as provided for in Article 166 (1) (b) of the Coordinated Law of 14 July 1994 on compulsory medical care and benefits insurance. In application of former Articles 35 and 35a of the Nomenclature, certain benefits in kind are granted together with one or more other benefits in kind, the so-called relative benefits in kind. In some cases, the remuneration of a performance depends on the performance of another performance. That other benefit is an absolute condition for the remuneration and is therefore referred to as the relative provision. During the thematic audit mentioned, the main issues were the benefits in kind for percutaneous coronary interventions. Notifications were then sent to the national federations on this matter. In some of the investigated cases, it was found that the coronary stents were reimbursed without the relative provision. The latter was either not invoiced by the nursing institution or invoiced but rejected by the sickness fund or the national association. Mistakes were also made with regard to the reimbursement of the relative supply, compliance with the applicable restriction and compliance with the flat-rate price. On 21 February 2015, a warning was given to the Socialist Landsbond, but also to those of the Christian Mutualities and to the Landsbond of the Independent Hospital Funds in application of Article 166, § 1. Standard allowances for implant placement are only reimbursed if a maximum number of hospitalisation days is respected. This ceiling was exceeded in a number of cases. A warning was also given to the Socialist National Union in 2015. The three national federations therefore had 12 months to regularise structural deficiencies of the same nature. During the fourth quarter of 2017 and the second and third quarters of 2018, it was verified during the follow-up check that the relative benefits in kind resulting from hospitalisations and invoicings in 2016 were reimbursed in accordance with the regulatory rules. In reply to your written parliamentary question No. 44 it appears that re-controlled cases were not regularised during the 12-month period, resulting in three sanctions for the Socialist Landsbond, one for the League of Christian Mutualities and one for the Landsbond of Independent Hospital Funds in the year 2018. As you know, these sanctions amount to EUR 1,250. This matter is still under regular review by the Administrative Control Office in order to verify the adjustment of procedures and to verify compliance by all insurance institutions with applicable legislation. Now I come to your question about the differences in fines. The social inspectors of the RIZIV Administrative Control Office shall carry out their checks in the sickness funds in a coordinated and harmonised manner, both in terms of the procedures to be applied and in terms of the interpretation of the legal provisions provided for under medical care and benefits insurance. The sanctions provided for in Article 166 of the Law of July 1994 are of a criminal nature and are used as a last resort. They should be established as mandatory in the event of an infringement. The insurance institution will then have to pay a direct fine, but a sanction is by nature also an important signal sent to the offender of the infringement. This actually means that it is up to the insurance institution to do everything in its power to avoid a repetition of infringements in the future. There are also means of control for the correct and uniform application of the rules, specifically aimed at improving the internal procedures of insurance institutions, i.e. those linked to financial responsibility in respect of the variable part of administrative costs, as well as various controls carried out by the RIZIV. The number of penalties imposed on a health insurance institution in the specific circumstances of the aforementioned Article 166 is therefore certainly not the only criterion allowing it to assess the work of that insurance institution and compliance with the required working procedures by the insurance institution. You are also asking about the differences between the two parts of the country, but I have no idea what that can be due to. Nor can I explain the differences between the sickness funds.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u22	These differences remain remarkable, Madam Secretary. I think it is a punishment that warnings of this order are not followed in a year's time, but a fine of EUR 1,250 is not very responsive for a health insurance fund. I would have liked to have been given an explanation of these differences, but if there is no explanation for that, I can only conclude that there is a difference in operation and that the responsibility lies solely with the sickness funds themselves. Well, that's not bad enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u23	Question No 5500958C by Mr Wim Van der Donckt is not applicable.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u24	Madam Secretary, the Sectoral Committee of the National Registry and the Sectoral Committee of Social Security and Health are both parts of the Data Protection Authority. In the past, they dealt with a question from mutual assistance societies and health insurance funds for the exchange of personal data. In the opinions of the sectoral committees, I read that the committees would authorise MOOs and sickness funds to exchange information solely for the purpose of carrying out their tasks of optional insurance. The authorisation appears to be strictly limited to personal data relating to the member, i.e. name, professional category, family status and so on, and does not extend to the specific medical care for which the persons concerned in the compulsory health insurance are reimbursed. However, I believe that the exchange of information on the medical care provided and reimbursed could lead to administrative simplification. For example, dentists could avoid having to pass on data necessary for reimbursement by compulsory health insurance, on the one hand, and data necessary for dental insurance concluded with the same sickness fund, on the other hand. The impact of the debate of 26 January 2013 of the National Registry Sectoral Committee also states that the authorisation to exchange personal data for a MOB will only take effect after the Committee has established, on the basis of the documents and information provided by the MOB, that an information security consultant, which offers all possible guarantees, has been appointed and that all useful information on information security has been provided. In other words, Madam Minister, this is a very complex procedure. That is why I have the following questions. Firstly, how should the opinions of data protection authorities be interpreted? In your view, should there not be more data exchange than merely the personal data between MOBs and sickness funds? Can the exchange of information include, for example, the medical care provided and the reimbursement? Secondly, a MOB is only authorised to exchange personal data if it has appointed an information security consultant. Do many MOBs already have such a consultant?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u25	Ms Van Peel, in the debate of 4 December 2012, the then Sectoral Committee of Social Security and Health authorised the sickness funds and their national associations to communicate certain personal data to the mutual assistance insurance companies to which they are affiliated, solely for the purpose of carrying out their optional insurance tasks. That notification was necessary as a result of the renewal of the supplementary health insurance scheme, the Law of 26 April 2010, which prevents a sickness fund itself from managing optional insurance and leaves that task to an insurance company of mutual assistance established for that purpose, where appropriate by sickness funds of the same national association. The Sectoral Committee considered it appropriate that these insurance companies should be able to make use of the personal data already available from the related health insurance fund and not re-collect it from the social insurance companies concerned. This was done with a view to administrative simplification. The authorisation contained in the aforementioned debate is indeed limited to a communication of certain personal data for certain purposes and should also be interpreted very strictly. The elements not expressly mentioned in the debate are therefore not covered by an authorisation for the time being. That's where the shoe pinches. However, the Information Security Committee, established by Law of 5 September 2018, which, moreover, falls outside the competence of the Data Protection Authority and which has taken over some of the powers of the Sectoral Committee of Social Security and Health, may, in application of Article 15 of the Law of 15 January 1990 establishing and organising a Crossroads Bank of Social Security, give a full opinion on the possible communication of additional personal data for additional purposes. In order to do so, stakeholders should submit a reasoned application which will subsequently be examined by the Information Security Committee in the light of the General Data Protection Regulation, in particular the principles of target binding, which is finality, and the minimum data processing, which is proportionality. In so far as the information security committee is favourable about this application, the sickness funds and their national associations and mutual assistance insurance companies may exchange the expressly mentioned personal data for the purposes expressly stated, within the scope of the deliberations provided by the information security committee. Public assistance companies are not part of the social security network. This makes it impossible for us to check whether these institutions have a data protection officer, the former security consultant.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u26	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The end of your answer was a bit cynical, but in fact the beginning of your answer was a bit cynical. I have the feeling that we want to achieve simplification, but in practice this is not easy and does not produce much, as long as it is limited to this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u27	Madam Minister, the FPS Finance has questioned the tax exemption from the fee for bicycle couriers, because one would not meet the condition of delivering citizens to citizens. Apparently, the FPS Finance has made a deal on this with Deliveroo, but from the answer given by the Minister of Finance to a question from my colleague, Joris Vandenbroucke, I would point out that this deal applies to the past and not to the future. Deliveroo has adapted the compensation system and is now using a fixed compensation system. However, I doubt whether this system meets the condition of services provided by citizens to citizens. This leaves the situation of the bicycle couriers uncertain. If the tax exemption is not accepted, they are self-employed according to Deliveroo. This can still be discussed, but their income will then be covered by the Income Tax Act. Then there are not only taxes due, but also RSZ contributions. Even after the deal with Deliveroo the uncertainty remains. After all, most bike couriers run for different internet platforms and with the other platforms, such as Uber Eats, there is no deal. When the couriers drive for different platforms, they perform a professional activity. That professional activity as a bicycle courier should not be combined with an occasional activity for which the tax exemption applies. Madam Minister, some bike couriers who call for tax exemptions are students. Not only do they now run the risk of facing taxes, but they also threaten to pay RSZ contributions. Have you already taken the necessary steps to warn bicycle couriers about the risks and the uncertainty that exists? Have your services taken any steps to requalify these fees? Do you think there should be more coherence? After all, there is a gap. The platforms are now only fiscally regulated and it may be advisable to provide for legal rules on social security, so that there will be less uncertainty for bike couriers in future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u28	Madam President, Minister, a year ago, as a result of the struggle of the Deliveroo workers against the independent status imposed on them, the multinational was accepted as a platform for collaborative economy. Although the FPS Finance reported to him, on three occasions, that its couriers do not fall within the scope of the program law of July 1, 2016, Deliveroo continued to impose this tax regime on couriers. When, in May 2019, the couriers turned to the FPS Finances, the latter replied, four months later, in a press release stating that the collaborative economy status still applied. With a magic wand, a massive tax fraud was eliminated. Deliveroo grants the right to use a tax system that is not provided for it. FPS Finance approves. But that's not all! In fact, couriers work outside any framework and under any right and are subject to new working conditions as a result of an opaque agreement between the FPS Finance and the multinational company. The major losers of this transaction, in addition to the Belgian taxpayer, are the couriers of Deliveroo. They have lost all their social rights as a result of their company's agreement with the tax administration. This means that their activity is not subject to the rules of labour law and therefore does not ultimately confer any right to social security. In doing so, couriers do not enjoy any protection in the event of an accident at work except the one that Deliveroo would like to grant them, but this protection is far less than the law provides. For them, there is no question of building up the right to unemployment while many couriers work in search of a real job. There is also no question of access to health care protection for those couriers whose only activity is this. So there is a real legal vacuum and they are made to believe that they have a social status when they do not. Social services are often lost in the face of this form of work, which is not really one, but whose income is recorded in order to exclude the beneficiaries of certain aid. Moreover, in addition to the fact that these workers find themselves in a dramatic situation due to the loss of their social rights, they are potentially placed in a situation of fraud. In the event of a subsequent requalification of their non-status by the authorities, it is up to the couriers to suffer the consequences. Minister, what is your position as Minister of Social Affairs on the tax agreement between the FPS Finances and the multinational Deliveroo? What do you intend to do to ensure that Deliveroo's couriers get the social rights lost by the tax agreement? Will you guarantee to couriers that their income will not be requalified under independent status, which would then introduce significant contributions and penalties?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u29	Dear colleagues, since January 18, 2018, Deliveroo has been approved as a collaborative economy platform. It is the FPS Finance that ensures the accreditations. I therefore do not understand why you are asking me the question, it would be more useful to address you to the Minister of Finance. Since Deliveroo has a recognition, it fulfils the conditions for his employees to perform in the system of untaxed extra-earning. These benefits are not subject to any rights under the legislation in force. So we cannot talk about lost rights either. If you want to earn extra money without tax, you must already have a job, by which you build up social rights, otherwise it is not possible, unless you are fully retired. Then we have fully built up our social rights. Everyone is free to perform or not in that system. It is the responsibility of the competent inspection service to verify whether the services provided in the "taxed supplementary income" system satisfy the conditions. If this is not the case, requalification is still possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u30	Madam Minister, my question concerns the social consequences of a tax regime with gaps. It is true that we have to work or retire for four fifths for unpaid work in an association or for services provided by citizens to citizens, but this condition is not laid down in the tax legislation for the sharing platforms. Some people have no social protection other than through the sharing platforms. The problem is that many bike couriers are currently at risk of having to pay social contributions because taxation does not recognise them. There is indeed a deal with Deliveroo, but that deal is not there with the other sharing platforms. It is not because there is recognition that activities are automatically subject to citizens' tax arrangements. That's why the FPS Finance dispute that, too. Because not all sharing platforms have a deal with the FPS Finance, I'm worried. If people are qualified as professional bike couriers, they absolutely cannot combine this with occasional bike courier activities in the context of the Jobs Act. In that sense, I am not satisfied with your answer. You didn't really answer that. The uncertainty really is a reality. I hope that those involved will not be regularised and that they will not suddenly have to cough up a lot of money.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u31	Minister, we are asking you this question because the agreement that was reached with the FPS Finance has an impact on your FPS. Moreover, it has dramatic social consequences. It therefore seemed logical to us that, as Minister for Social Affairs, you also had to answer this question. The answer, of course, does not satisfy us. For us, this is a form of validation of work in the dark that directly violates the basic social rights of workers. We can only regret that you and your government have no problem granting tax advantages to certain multinationals, while not taking the increasingly precarious situation of workers seriously enough or at all. For us, this is obviously unacceptable. We will continue to discuss with trade union organisations what needs to be done at this level.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u32	Madam President, Madam Minister, as you know, the Act of 22 May 2019 has reformed the system of waiting periods for self-employed workers – a reform whereby, since 1 July 2019, self-employed persons whose incapacity for work lasts for more than seven days are entitled to a daily allowance for their entire period of incapacity for work. This allowance shall be payable from the eighth day of cessation of work on grounds of incapacity and shall have retroactive effect. In other words, the amount is collected for the entire period of incapacity, since the first day of separation from work. This provision is an important step – which we supported under the previous legislature – in building a strong social status for the self-employed and reducing discrimination between self-employed and wage-earners. The remuneration of employees is guaranteed from the first day of incapacity for work. In the face of illness and accidents in life, it is important for us to have maximum protection, regardless of the status of the worker. Since the implementation of this measure, however, unwanted effects have been noted. The National Intermutualist College sent us a letter dated 9 September, which was relayed by the Union des Classes Moyennes (UCM), in order to warn us of the difficult situation in which some independents are found because of this new paragraph. Some of them do not take the necessary steps to be compensated on their first day of incapacity for work, either because of ignorance of this new system or because of force majeure. The old system allowed the late self-employed to regularize his situation and restore his right to compensation through his doctor and mutual care. This is no longer possible. The result for these self-employed, sometimes seriously ill, is a loss of financial and social rights. That is why it is important to redress this injustice. To this end, we have tabled in this committee a bill (55K074) which removes the problematic paragraph and allows the recognition of incapacity for work from the first day of effective cessation, as is the case in the general scheme. Minister, are you also of the opinion that the mechanism voted in the Act of May 22, 2019 should be reviewed? If so, how do you intend to act? Our bill is, of course, open to co-signature in order to cooperate as best as possible in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u33	Minister, my question is similar to that of my colleague. Under the previous legislature, we passed a law to improve the social protection of self-employed workers with disabilities. The waiting period for the grant of an incapacity benefit for the self-employed has now been reduced from 14 days to 7 days. In addition, the entire period of incapacity for work of the self-employed is now compensated if the disease lasts beyond the seventh day. This is a major step forward for more than one million self-employed. In political discussions, many questions were asked about the budgetary impact, about the control of incapacity for work as well, which is not the same for the self-employed as for the employees. This is why a monitoring mechanism has been devised to prevent incapacity for work from being invoked retroactively. From now on, incapacity for work can only begin from the date on which it was found by a doctor. Minister, my party was not seeking this control mechanism. During the debates in committee, my colleague Jean-Marc Delizée expressed his reluctance. He said that it should be kept in mind that this does not create a problem of application. Recently, however, we received the letter from the National Intermutualist College, which shows that this system – article 53, paragraph 2, of the Royal Decree of 20 July 1971 – poses many problems of application. I will not quote them all, but I would say that these problems are quite serious. The UCM has joined this observation and both the Intermutualist College and the UCM are asking for a new adaptation of this royal decree of 20 July 1971. Minister, do you confirm the difficulties in the application of section 53, paragraph 2, of the Royal Order of 20 July 1971? Can you develop the way this happens on the ground? In a recently introduced bill, my political group is simply proposing, for reasons of legal certainty, that Article 53(2) of the 1971 Royal Decree should be repealed. What do you think of this solution?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u34	Mr.President, Mr. Vanden Burre, Mrs. Thémont, it is true that before July 1, 2019, an independent person who fell ill had to wait fourteen days before receiving an incapacity benefit from his mutual. At the time, it was three months. The number of months and then weeks only decreased. Thanks to the law of May 22, 2019, the waiting period was reduced from fourteen days to seven days. In addition, if the illness lasts more than seven days, the self-employed person will now be compensated for the entire period during which he was unable to work. In this context, the legislator has specified that the period of incapacity for work may begin at the earliest on the date of signature of the medical certificate of incapacity for work. In a letter dated 9 September 2019 addressed to my colleague Mr.Ducarme, Minister of Independents, and to myself, the National Intermutualist College drew our attention to the fact that these conditions of application have unintended effects. With these specific provisions, the legislator intended to avoid that in order to support the application for incapacity for work, the self-employed should ask a doctor to issue a certificate of incapacity for work with retroactive effect. The legislator specifically wanted this anti-abuse provision. Therefore, as a member of a government in day-to-day affairs, it goes without saying that I respect that will. In any case, the new regulation represents a major step forward for the social protection of the self-employed. Even the self-employed who consults a doctor late will gain from the previous regulations. This same rule also applies in the case of an extension of the period of incapacity for work. As a result, more cases of relapse will have to be opened, which could result in a loss of sickness benefit for the self-employed and create an additional administrative burden for the mutuals. In the event of an extension of the period of incapacity for work, the anti-abuse legis ratio does not play. It is for this reason that I have already started consultations with my colleague Minister Ducrame, Minister of Independents, but also with INAMI, in order to find a solution. This solution must first be submitted to the Self-Employed Workers' Insurance Management Committee. This will be done in the course of December.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u35	Madam Minister, thank you. It is important that you have started consultations to find a solution. It would be interesting if we could be kept informed at committee level. It is important that we find a solution. Are we going through a piece of legislation that repeals part of the old text or will you find a solution through your consultations? Somewhere, no matter how, as long as we get there. You're right, it's a very positive step, but even if we're happy, we'd like to go further than the seven days. All right! Avoid adverse effects that prevent many self-employed people from accessing these new rights. I would like to insist that we be kept informed of the progress and solutions that you will find. If necessary, our text remains at your disposal, but I am pleased to hear that you are working on a solution by the end of December. I hope you get there very quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u36	Madam Minister, I agree with my colleague, in any case, with your position on the matter. The introduction of the second paragraph of Article 53, which was discussed earlier, created a difference in treatment, particularly between employees and self-employed persons. This provision no longer allows for situations of force majeure to be taken into account, which seems to me to be a disadvantage for the self-employed. I therefore also look forward to the return of these consultations.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u37	Minister, as you know, since 2006, a personal contribution of 7.5% has been levied on the competency allowances of the Integrated Police Logistics Framework (CALog) staff. This contribution was to be taken into account in the calculation of the pension of these agents, but since the Royal Decree was never adopted, this is not the case. I therefore asked your colleague the Minister of Pensions what was the situation with regard to the adoption of this royal decree and the contributions made so far, but he referred me back to you with regard to this second aspect. Minister, how many contributions have been collected since 2006 on the competency allowance? Is this amount reserved or paid in the overall management?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u38	Ms Thémont, on the basis of the DmfAPPL declaration, the National Social Security Office received 6,515,996 euros and 6,298,078 euros respectively for 2017 and 2018 as contributions on the competence allowance for the local police. With regard to the Federal Police, the National Social Security Office is not in a position to identify the contributions paid on the competence allowance on the basis of the DmfA declaration. This contribution is no longer to be reported since the fourth quarter of 2018. The contractual pension contribution is part of the basic contribution and is intended for overall management. The pension contribution of the Statutory Officers of the Local Police Areas is a contribution to the SPF Pensions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u39	Minister, thank you for your answers. This contribution is deducted but the Royal Decree which allows it to be taken into account in the calculation of the pension has never been adopted. I have tabled a motion for a resolution so that this royal decree can be implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u40	Minister, following the announcement of the closure of Caterpillar in Gosselies in 2016, an agreement between the unions and management was adopted. Among other things, it provided for the payment of extralegal "departure" or tax-deviation compensation to workers who were dismissed. In 2019, after carrying out checks within mutual societies, INAMI blamed them for not having found the cumulation of invalidity benefits with so-called "departure" allowances, according to them. As a result, the mutualities claimed reimbursement of the disability allowances for each month expected to be covered by the extralegal severance pay from the invalids. If the period deemed to be covered by the extralegal severance pay has not yet expired, the mutualities shall suspend the payment of invalidity benefits. As a result, the sick find themselves without income. The attitude of INAMI raises a number of legal questions: the extralegal severance benefit is in some way an extralegal closure benefit. Article 25 of the Act of 26 June 2002 on closures provides that the closure allowance may be combined with social security benefits; the legislation provides that the disabled worker may not be entitled to invalidity benefits during the period covered by the statutory compensatory notice allowance. On the other hand, the legislation does not prohibit the cumulation of invalidity benefits with an extralegal advantage paid to the worker when the employment contract is terminated; if the legislator had intended to prohibit the cumulation of invalidity benefits with an advantage paid to the worker when the employment contract which is not expressed in time is terminated, it would have explicitly specified this in Article 103, paragraph 1, paragraph 3, of the Coordinated Act of 14 July 1994. It therefore appears that the position of INAMI is not based on any legal basis. Therefore, do you condemn the position of INAMI which considers that the cumulation of invalidity benefits with an extralegal advantage paid to the worker when the employment contract which is not expressed in time is terminated is prohibited? If so, what do you intend to do to redress the harm caused by INAMI to the disabled persons concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u41	Mr D'Amico, this legacy is complicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u42	I know him well...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u43	It's for you, but it's also for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u44	Especially for my colleagues.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u45	The principle of deprivation of income, which implies the granting of social benefits in the event of incapacity for work, is strictly applied and has no exceptions other than those explicitly stated by the legislator. It is important to recall the very essence of the intervention of our insurance in the event of the materialization of social risk, which aims to provide a replacement income because of the loss of income caused by an incapacity for work resulting from an illness or accident whose origin is not directly related to working conditions or is not recognized as such. This principle – described in article 103 of the Compulsory Health Care and Allowances Insurance Act, coordinated on 14 July 1994, which is more generally part of the safeguard of our social security system through the establishment of control mechanisms to ensure its proper application – provides for the exclusion of the payment of incapacity for work benefits during the period during which the social insured receives remuneration within the meaning of the Act of 12 April 1965 on the protection of the remuneration of workers. It is therefore not subject to interpretation. Accordingly, INAMI applied the rules referred to in the above-mentioned Article to the situation described. In the case of amounts not expressed in terms of working time which have been paid by the employer and declared as such by the employer to the ONSS under Wage Code 4 in the DmfA, at the end of the employment contract, they are liable to the calculation of social security contributions. In the light of the administrative instructions issued by ONSS, it is clear that these amounts constitute remuneration within the meaning of the Act of 12 April 1965 and, therefore, cannot be combined with incapacity for work benefits, in accordance with the statutory requirement just explained. You are aware that a number of legal remedies have been brought before the labour courts against the recovery decisions notified to them in accordance with the above-mentioned legal principles. These appeals are still pending. At this stage of the proceedings, no judgement has yet been rendered. It is therefore necessary to await the outcome and not to interfere with the course of justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u46	Madam Minister, you have no doubt that we cannot agree with your answer. It is all the more disappointing that the former Prime Minister, Charles Michel, said in 2016 that it was a brutal decision and a social tragedy and that he would like to be fully mobilized to support the workers and their families. We would also like to point out that the INAMI, which you support, is undermining social consultation because it deprives workers of some of the extralegal benefits negotiated by trade union representatives. In addition, INAMI's administrative practices are contradictory because it prohibits incapacity for work benefits with a redundancy bonus, but allows for the accumulation of incapacity for work benefits with a year-end premium. Finally, we do not understand that you find it normal for disabled people to be treated differently from other categories of workers. Indeed, the extralegal severance benefit granted in the social plan can be combined with all possible income: dividends, capital gains on shares, interest on capital, tokens of presence, rental income, wages, etc. All but one of the world's income, disability benefit! Of all the possible income in Belgium, only the invalidity benefit is discriminated against. Only one group is punished, the disabled. It's still sad! The most disadvantaged people are again sanctioned by INAMI. After having been the victims of dismissal and having received extralegal compensation, which has nothing to do with the legal invalidity allowance by definition, this discrimination is unacceptable to them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u47	Madam Minister, in the preamble, a small remark: you see here that there are three questions grouped together. We found that in paragraph 19 two other questions dealt with the same subject. My colleague from the PS spoke about the problem of disabled people, which, in our view, is also related to this discussion. We do not understand why you have not agreed to turn these issues into topical debates. Can you explain why this was not accepted when the Rules of the House provide for it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u48	I'm not the one who decides. We just need to be warned when there is a topical debate. We have received nothing in this regard. Perhaps these were questions that were introduced rather late. I was not warned of a debate. I have the answers to your questions. They require a lot of numbers, but as these are simple questions I didn't take tables with me. We can see how the questions and answers take place, you always have your replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u49	Let's not pollise. We will be more vigilant in the future. It seems interesting to us to see that five political groups were asking questions on the same subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u50	As a result, several questions of this kind can always be linked! It is like in the Committee on Health, when it deals with medicines, everything could be linked and a mini-debate could be held. I'm not against the debate, but...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u51	For my part, I will pay more attention to it. I think the confusion arose from the fact that we did not join the five questions, but did divide them into two groups. I'll be careful next time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u52	In this case, we see that since the previous legislature, the number of long-term patients in our country has only increased and not slightly: they have increased from 343,000 to 415,000. Last April you said in plenary that you wanted to give the opportunity to return to work smoothly to those who had the opportunity and wish. But perhaps you still remember the story of Inge who, four months after being diagnosed with metastatic cancer, received a questionnaire from INAMI to assess his possible reintegration into the labour market. At that time, you said, "Such mistakes are possible." Yet, unfortunately, this example was not the only one, hence my question. On what parameters do you use to assess whether mutualities act sufficiently and correctly to reintegrate long-term patients into the labour market? Is there a link between the review of the allocation of variable administrative costs for mutualities, the parameters you use in your assessment, the increase in the pressure on mutualities in the activation of their inactive members, and the above-mentioned errors? Do you have a view of the nature of the complaints, of the errors made to the various mediation services concerned, and of the number of such complaints? What steps have you taken since then to adapt the regulations and avoid such errors? If you have not yet done so, what further steps do you intend to take in this direction?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u53	Madam Secretary, at the moment our country has some 400,000 long-term unemployed. That number is increasing enormously. I hear signals that the reintegration projects are not running as desired. Often there is a long administrative path to be taken before the unemployed can start. The threshold for voluntary start-up is very high, as they still fear dismissal for medical reasons. There has been a lot of talk earlier about the fit note. I've already asked questions about that. How's the fit note coming? Has there been much? How do you see things going in the future? Before a long-term sick person can get back to work, he has to travel a long administrative route very often. Is there any way to shorten that route? How can we ensure that workers entering a reintegration project are less at risk of dismissal for medical reasons?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u54	Minister, we have received a great deal of information over the last few days, notably through a press release of November 20, 2019 from the FEB which announced that it would "put the points on the i" following figures presented on the reintegration journey for long-term patients. This presentation of the figures suggested that two thirds of the 50,000 persons involved in the last three years, through a reintegration path, would have been dismissed. The FEB refutes the argument that the reintegration path would be a "leaving machine", pointing out other figures: in 2018 alone, about 165,000 workers would have experienced one or other form of reintegration - more than 50,000 people I have just referred to; of these 165,000 workers, 60,000 would have been allowed to return to part-time work and combine it with a sickness benefit; At least 10,000 people who were at home for illness would have received retraining training paid by INAMI and given by the regional employment services; approximately 80,000 workers reportedly requested an appointment with the occupational doctor to examine the necessary and possible adaptations to return to work. Minister, can you give us your interpretation of the results of this reintegration journey for long-term patients, which came into effect on January 1, 2017? Since that date, how many workers have been affected by a reintegration route? Can you disaggregate these figures according to the different forms of reintegration journey? What has been the result of these reintegration routes for the workers concerned? How do you assess this measure?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u55	Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank you for your questions. It is true that workers who are long-term ill should not be written off. On the contrary, we must help them to resume work if they can. This aid is the starting point for the whole policy on reintegration pathways. A lot of people are involved in this. In particular, the sickness funds play an important role in providing appropriate guidance. In order to encourage sickness funds to fulfil this role as effectively as possible, there is the allocation of administrative costs, a scheme which has been partially adapted. Within the overall budget of administrative costs, we have isolated EUR 25 million, which we are distributing in a new way, not just on the basis of the number and type of members, but on the basis of the efforts made by the sickness funds to help long-term sick members to find work again. This is about the health insurance funds. I think the questions are mixed up. There is the reintegration path with the employers and the reintegration path through the sickness funds. For the employers, Minister Peeters was responsible at the time. If reintegration is impossible, an employee can be dismissed for medical reasons after six months, but also later, if necessary. That's always been the law. Sometimes employees say that they are no longer able to work within their own company and that they want to do something else or to receive training, and then ask for their own resignation for medical reasons. Sometimes it is the employer who says he has no place for the employee and gives notice for medical reasons. The budget of EUR 25 million was distributed as follows: 25% in proportion to the number of re-integration pathways launched, 50% in relation to the number of members who resumed work with the medical adviser's permission, and 25% in proportion to the number of clinical trials carried out by the consultant. Customised support should be initiated for each patient in order to enable them to return to work as quickly as possible. This is why the mutual sends out a questionnaire after eight weeks. It is the result of a collaboration between the University of Liège, KU Leuven, INAMI and mutual societies. This questionnaire asks the patient about his or her health, job situation and to what extent he or she assesses his or her chances of returning to work. Tailor-made accompaniment also means – as I have pointed out on several occasions in this committee – that everyone must first have the time to overcome his or her illness. The cases you cited were examined because it is not correct to send this letter when the patient is experiencing a relapse of his illness. Unfortunately, the services did not know; the information was crossed. In case of relapse, the doctor must be instructed to notify the doctor of the mutual by letter. I have known the case of chronic patients who are subject only once a year to the medical advice of their mutuality. One of them, meanwhile, had developed cancer and I made it known to his mutuality. In such a situation, it is necessary to wait for him to recover his health, and the same applies to a hospitalized patient for whom the doctor must indicate that he is in the hospital. I do not understand how this situation could have happened. It seems that this lady received an invitation when she was facing a recurrence of her cancer. The completion of the questionnaire is not mandatory. Patients may also indicate that it is unrealistic to resume work in their situation. It is positive when a patient is accompanied to think about his own professional situation, even though there are not many perspectives immediately. It is better to discuss the possibility of going back to work. After all, the questionnaire allows the patient to go through a thought process about a possible return. This process of reflection can then be started and the sooner people think about it, the more opportunities and the better one will know what kind of reintegration path one would like to start. One can then decide for oneself whether one wants to take a course or a training course, what work one can or can no longer do and what residual capacity one still has to get back to work, as Mrs Farih has just put it. Most employees go back to work part-time. The scientific questionnaire thus helps patients to resume work at their own pace. The measure is inspired by measures that have long been established in Norway and which have produced positive results.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u56	Madam Minister, most of all we wanted to ask you these different questions because, and I'm really sorry to tell you that, we really see a difference between what you say and what you do. I also really want to believe your good will to do things slowly. I had a burn out myself and I was able to start over slowly, because the employer allowed me to do so. I want to support this question because it is feasible. Besides, I'm here today. But in reality, when people are asked, generally speaking, they do not feel at all gently guided. We also need to see the figures to better analyse the situation. The new figures of the Flemish Economic Council have just been published. We want to focus first on prevention. I am not going to dwell on these figures to be too long. In addition, a doctor and professor at KUL, Mr. Godderis, also has an interesting reflection. He stressed the need to first work upstream on prevention. He goes even further by saying that, to the extent that this reintegration is positive for people, we have to do it even sooner. This does not mean getting people back to work right away, but getting in touch with the workplace as quickly as possible. It even goes beyond 12 weeks. I find this reflection interesting. There is this figure from the ACV, the one that is the most appealing to us, on the reintegration into SMEs: 83% of long-term patients who had received a grade C (the doctor authorises the resumption of another job in a suitable manner) are dismissed for medical reasons.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u57	This concerns the journey to the employer. I answered questions about the journey within mutualities. There are two rehabilitation routes. Take the time to study the file, ma'am. Your personal situation is not generalizable. You must not use your personal situation as a source of inspiration for legislation. Professor Godderis works mainly on the first piece, which can happen to the employer. I have spoken with him many times about reintegration. Prevention is important, but that is what we are doing. We are dealing with secondary prevention. There are 14 projects running through Fedris, which is not really competent for that. We have implemented these projects, including self-employed workers who have employees. I ask you for consistency. You ask me questions about mutual reintegration, but in your reply you tell me about reintegration with employers. These are two different routes! Obviously, these are different numbers. I'd like to explain it to you, but it's going to create confusion because we're not talking about the same thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u58	I was going to continue my sentence by saying that you were probably going to contradict me by saying that it was on the side of the journey via the employer, which I understood correctly. Thank you for your information. You are also here to give the information as a minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u59	When you come here, you still have to dive into the file!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u60	Furthermore, we are also interested in the figures concerning the journey through the reintegration of the mutual fund. I would like to conclude by saying that I am not leaving my personal situation to reflect on the subject. I just wanted to share my personal experience to support the fact that when people get back to work as quickly as possible in good conditions, it works. So it was to support your intention, which unfortunately does not materialize. If you'll allow me, I'll continue with my line. Nor do we agree when you continue to wash your hands of the mistakes made, for example with the flagrant error with this woman who had cancer. That's not acceptable. You're putting pressure on mutuals. You explain yourself how you changed the parameters to give subsidies and, in our view, all this makes it more difficult for mutual services to take care of people in a gentle way. You will not deny that many employers will not agree to reintegrate people into suitable work. If I take the example of my colleagues at Aldi's or even the ladies who clean up here, I don't see how you're going to force the employers to do it. This is what we expect of you! The only gentle way you approach is in favour of employers against whom you do not plan to sanction.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u61	Madam Minister, perhaps I expected more from your personal record. I would therefore like to refer to three elements of my personal record of this reintegration journey. In my opinion, you're not going to contradict me. I think that health also requires serenity. An individual who is ill on reintegration journey also needs serenity in his or her journey. In the field, here's what I felt most like to hear. Three elements could be reassessed and reviewed if this reintegration path was to be improved. The first is the idea of returning to work as quickly as possible. This has a beneficial and positive effect. Restarting to work, getting back on track can actually restore a lot of energy. But when we suffer from diseases that deprive us of the benefit of returning to work very quickly, then the pressure becomes something even more demanding and stressful. I recall the question of serenity. The second element is the part of subjectivity. You mentioned it yourself when you mentioned the idea of choosing the people to whom the questionnaire is sent, of examining how to work with this reintegration journey, and of determining the situations. From the moment we talk about health care and subjectivity, you probably know, as a doctor, that this is a very important factor. I wonder to what extent we should not further mark this aspect of subjectivity. The third element is the following. In the maze of the reintegration journey, could the administrative burden not be reduced? That's what I have to do again, because I have not myself been a victim of long-term illness. This burdensomeness, together with the documents to be filled out, the difficulty of opening a mail and this obligation to still make an additional administrative act, is part of the elements to be reviewed, according to our returns.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u62	We have developed a specific tool for the exchange of information between the attending physician, the mutual physician and the occupational physician. We have done so to make things easier and to avoid red tape.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u63	I can hear that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u64	We could go further, as Mrs Farih said in a note. It's a different reform. It is no longer a declaration that there is an inability to work, but, as a doctor, to declare what is still the ability to work, which is more difficult. That goes further. It is then the doctor who decides that the patient can still work. For now, we're still leaving the decision to the patient. If he says he sees no possibility, the answer is clear and comes through the questionnaire. This goes further, but it has not been so far because it could pose difficulties for the treating physician to know to what extent the patient can still work. In the agreement of the social partners, the Minister of Labour has allocated 2 million to organise primary prevention with occupational medicine, separate from our secondary and tertiary prevention. When you're sick and dependent on the mutual, then fired, it's another way. The journey with mutualities is beginning to bear fruit. In order to avoid the second group, it is necessary to work on the first group, i.e. within companies. This is what we do with employers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u65	Madam Secretary, allow me to put the genesis of this question first. I submitted this question at the end of 2017 or early 2018 as a written question and then, presumably like you, I lost track of them. I have intended to translate my written questions, if they remain unanswered, into an oral question a little more quickly in committee. With these questions I would also like to obtain a lot of figures. In view of its importance, I have therefore tabled these questions as oral questions. Madam Minister, start-up and small private sector employers with little or no staff are entitled to a target group reduction in employers' contributions to the recruitment of a new employee for 13 quarters. In the case of the recruitment of a first employee before 1 January 2021, the employer shall benefit from that reduction for an indefinite period. In 2016, the full cost of that measure was around 57 million euros. Every quarter, costs increase by around 5 million euros. The measure would cost around EUR 400 million a year in 2020. During recent hearings on the funding of social security in our Committee on Social Affairs, the ABVV even talked about an explosion in the cost of the plus plans up to €666 million in 2020. It is therefore really useful to evaluate such an expensive measure on its merits in good time. A number of elements are responsible for the very high cost. For example, a random employee can be identified as the first employee on a quarterly basis. In other words, an employer may choose to exempt the RSZ contributions of the employee with the highest wage. The employer will also tend to increase the highest wage rather than the lowest wages in the case of wage increases. Figures from the ABVV confirm that 95.6 % of these first recruitments take place at the highest wage. From a sense of fairness, it would be equally interesting to exempt the employee with the lowest wage. Figures from the ABVV show that of the first free employees prior to recruitment, only 18% are unemployed. In 63 % of the other cases, the employee simply comes from another employer. Madam Minister, first of all, is there going to be an evaluation of this measure? What independent body will evaluate this measure? Secondly, has the number of start-ups increased significantly since the introduction of that measure in 2016? The increase in the number of start-ups could be seen as the real increase in employment. In fact, start-ups who would have started without the measure would be responsible for some deadweight costs. Thirdly, how does the employment of those start-ups evolve over the following years? How do RSZ contributions and RSZ discounts evolve with those start-ups? Fourthly, can we at the same time see a reduction in new recruitments from old employers or from companies that have many employees, particularly in sectors with many new employers? With the answer to that question, we can to some extent check whether recruitment from new employers is at the expense of recruitment from old employers. Fifthly, on the basis of first figures, we estimate the cost price at EUR 400 million per year by 2020. Do you think that's a realistic estimate? In what way is that cost budgeted? Sixthly, this is a very important question. Do you want to extend the measure beyond 2020? If not, how will it be justified for workers who recruit a first employee after 2020 to compete with employers who do benefit from a RSZ discount? Seventhly, Madam Minister, have you won the right not to release the choice of the employee who is the first employee to be exempted from RSZ and, for example, to exempt the lowest wage in a start-up company from RSZ or, if this goes too far, to work with a wage ceiling? That could be another way in. Eighth, do you want to limit support over time, given the high and increasing cost of the measure? Without a limitation of the measure in time, a limited number of employers will continue to receive very large support from the government.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u66	Mrs Willaert, I am trying, firstly, to find out why your written question has not been forwarded. After all, there was apparently an answer in which there was a lot of figures. I don't know why it didn't end up with you. When did we send the answer? Apparently, a draft response was received by the end of 2018. We will try to deliver it to you. It remains an actual question. Now you will also get the figures for 2018. Of the figures given by the ABVV I have no knowledge and no knowledge. I don't have access to the numbers from the ABVV. The National Social Security Office could not confirm to me that those figures were correct or wrong. The service could not therefore confirm that 95% of the first recruitments were applied to the highest wage. This is a measure for the first recruitment. It is therefore a question of getting job creation for people who have an independent activity or an enterprise and who at some point find that they could use help and recruit someone. However, the social contributions are a brake, because the self-employed or the entrepreneur does not know whether he will be able to continue to pay them. He also does not know whether that period of more work will continue. The measure is therefore intended to exempt early recruitment of social contributions. There used to be a reduced contribution for the first five recruitments. They move up a row and become the next five recruits. You are in favour of applying the exemption only to those with the lowest wage. Since the measure is a first recruitment, it would imply that the first recruitment should concern an employee with the lowest wage and that the following employees would then have to earn more. I don't know how we're gonna get that sold, and I don't think it makes any sense. This is a question of hiring a first employee. This will be followed up by the National Social Security Office. Each quarter, a file with the number of new entrants is delivered. These are the employers who, for the first time, apply for the RSZ exemption for the recruitment of a first employee. The budgetary impact of this measure is monitored by the government through the budgetary controls. Indeed, the number of start-ups has increased since the introduction of the RSZ exemption: those people previously engaged in an activity as an entrepreneur or self-employed person, but have for the first time done a recruitment and are thus called start-ups employers. In 2015 there were 23,500 start-ups, in 2016 there were 30,024, in 2018 there were 28,073. Compared to 2015, there are 4.573 more start-ups in 2018. The evolution of the number of start-ups was mapped out by the RSZ on the basis of data for the first and second quarters of 2016, taking into account the short response period. At that time there were 10.667 employers who benefited from the RSZ exemption. They employed a total of 11.142 full-time equivalents. In the second quarter of 2019, there were 6,144 employers of 10,667 and a total of 15,926 full-time equivalents. Between the first quarter of 2016 and the second quarter of 2019, 183,687 full-time equivalents were added in the private sector. For that period, 34.606 full-time equivalents were covered by the RSZ exemption by the new employers; 149.081 full-time equivalents were still recruited by what we call the old employers. Employers who already employed people, we call them the old employers. In the 62nd report of the Social Security Management Committee, the total cost of the plus plans, i.e. the first to the sixth employee, is estimated at EUR 666 million in 2020. The actual costs of the RSZ exemption for the recruitment of a first employee cannot be derived from this. It's all about the envelope. Nor can we determine the cost of the measure in 2020, as it was applicable for 2016. Is it justified to extend this measure? A debate on this can be held by the new government, if it ever comes. It's not for me to decide right now. If I am asked for my opinion, I will certainly give it to you. I think that the fears of the employer have been taken into account in the first recruitment. It is also seen that a lot of people have come from this. That is now decreasing because so many people have already used the measure. This has helped us to raise our employment rate. That is the main conclusion. There may be a movement of workers from one employer to a new employer. That can never be ruled out. That person himself has no interest in that. It is the new employer who receives the exemption from social contributions. For the recipient of the wage it remains the same. We must not ban people from changing employers if they can improve. It is important that the measure has contributed, that it has added oil to the engine of employment, especially for people who have doubts as to whether they can take on someone. You also know that no one is recruited for three busy months to let them go. You can't. I think it is a positive measure. I'm gonna wonder what you think.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u67	Madam President, Madam Minister, when I return to my memory, I think we have also supported this. I think it was in some kind of programme law at the beginning of the previous legislature. So we also want to give this a chance. I've tried to write down the numbers as much as I can, but I'm gonna take another look at them. That is the advantage of a written question, then we have that time. My question with regard to the lowest wage is mainly because it seems illogical to us that an employer should be able to refer to that so-called first employee every quarter. There is therefore still a need for further evaluation. If that is the case, it seems to me that this is not the case. Then it goes beyond the first goal that you yourself formulated in the beginning. My question about justification is not whether or not this is a fair system; it is about the following. That measure shall be valid for 13 quarters. It has been released for anyone recruited until the end of 2020 and there is uncertainty about the extension. We will have to do the same. If it continues, we will have to respond, otherwise there will be employers who will be treated differently. That can't be the intention. That is what my question on justification is about. I am going to look at the figures again with a great deal of attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u68	It's simple, it's not extended. To extend that, we need a new government. This extension should have been decided for a long time now. It will therefore no longer be valid for new recruitments.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u69	Then, of course, there is the problem that there are people for whom it is infinitely valid, compared to...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u70	This was also the case when it was introduced, compared to recruitments of, for example, six months earlier. They were covered by another measure. So we will have to have a government soon.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u71	We are going to evaluate that and we need to look at it further.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u72	Madam Minister, a few hours ago you promised to make available the tables on the long-term sick. I assume that these tables will be made available to the secretariat so that all Members can see them?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u73	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u74	Perfect. It was not clear whether those tables were made available to the individual member or to the committee as a whole. Before you shoot out of your boots, I'll tell you that I know the two trajectories. On the one hand, there are measures through the sickness funds and the insurance institutions, which is the first route to support the reintegration of disabled and disabled workers. The figures for incapacity for work and invalidity at the RIZIV do indeed go up; there are now 450,000 or something more. On the other hand, the employer must also take measures, which is the second stage of the welfare codex, with a view to the reintegration of sick workers who are returning to work. There are several possibilities. But the figures that are recorded indicate that this is not really a great success. I will not start with the decisions on the route C or on the route D, which is something for your colleague, Minister Muylle. But global re-integrating apparently very few employees effectively; 22%, the figures say. Most of them even get fired for medical reasons, for reasons of medical force majeure, which is partly covered by labour law. Madam Minister, the unanimous opinion No. 2099 of the NAR, which dates back to last year, in which an evaluation was made of the reintegration process, and of the two different tracks, is undoubtedly known to you. He also makes a number of proposals and I would like to talk about them. The two tracks would lead to real reintegration and not become a discharge machine. However, the measures are not satisfactory. That opinion of the NAR contains a number of recommendations for improvement, for example on the recognition of burn-out. The same applies to health insurance. There are recommendations on the alignment of the rules of sickness and invalidity insurance and those of the welfare codex. There are also recommendations on the accumulation of wages received by an employee seeking to integrate. He can accumulate his salary with his sickness benefit. What is your opinion on this and will you be working on additional measures to improve the current legislation, including on the basis of the unanimous opinion No. 2099 from the NAR? Or maybe you're planning other measures?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u75	Minister, since 2016, a worker with a long-term illness may complete a reinstatement journey if the request is made either by the medical advisor or by the employer or by the employee. According to statistics compiled by the Christian trade union, Belgium has about 415,000 people with long-term illness. According to the union's calculations for 2017, 2018 and the first half of this year, at least 52,293 people have started a reintegration course and 67% of them have been dismissed. One fifth of these workers have returned to work, while around 11% are still waiting. Can I confirm the figures of the Christian union? How many people have started a reintegration course? How many people have been laid off as a result of this journey? How many people have returned to work? If these figures are confirmed, what is the government's position on this failure? Should employers not be further encouraged to provide suitable workplaces or any other measures that actually promote reintegration?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u76	The figures you refer to are specifically about the reintegration process in a company. The supervision of the disabled worker by the prevention services is indeed governed by the law on well-being at work and was the responsibility of former Minister Peeters, then former Minister Beke and now Minister Muylle. The coverage of the reintegration pathways is, to say the least, rather diverse and somewhat unsophisticated. The ACV speaks of a discharge machine and in its member magazine I have received this via a favourable wind, because I am not a member of it and I don't suppose that its members really want to be contacted or accompanied by the company doctor. If the worker concerned is unable to recover and remains ill for more than six months to a year, then a discharge usually follows for medical reasons. The VBO says that there is a success rate of 80% of the reintegration pathways. The division is also clearly reflected in the opinion of the NAR, to which you refer. The truth will be somewhere in the middle, but in order to know it, we need to analyse the figures even more thoroughly. The objective of the journeys should be at the heart of the message: to give the people concerned a chance to pick up the thread. The reintegration of long-term patients is an important reform in the interests of both the long-term sick worker and the employer. We get a lot of positive reactions from long-term ill workers who said that they felt completely socially isolated, that they did not think they could ever mean anything again, that they have now resumed work and that it is very valuable to them. These are the most motivated workers in the workplace. I also visited projects for employees with mental disorders. They're most motivated to go back to work. Unfortunately, there are also workers for whom no adapted work is possible. The reform is actually years too late. We are aware of that. Indeed, the Scandinavian countries started with such a system ten years before us. Indeed, we drew our inspiration from a Norwegian measure, among other things. The success of the measure also depends, of course, on constructive cooperation with all the parties involved. Therefore, this kind of bad communication bothers me because it opposes the employer to the worker, whereas it is precisely a question of enabling them to find a solution together. I repeat, the echoes on the site are positive. This is also reflected in the figures provided by the sickness funds. Those numbers have been kept waiting. The number of disabled workers with an authorised activity is increasing. In 2014, there were 35,989 disabled workers who were partly employed. In 2018, there were almost 60,000, which was an increase of about 65%. So we see that we are beginning to find each other in this area. It is also about trajectories and a tailor-made accompaniment. This means building up expertise in this area and working together, especially in dialogue with employers' organisations and workers' organisations. The analysis of the NAR also allows for a number of regulatory adjustments. In my opinion, these are interesting recommendations. The next government may take action on this. So there is already a whole to-do list from this committee for the possible next government.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u77	I assume you will assume that someday there will be a federal government, Madam Secretary, because you are talking about a possible future government. We live in a federal state.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u78	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u79	I remember that, too, but the intention is that we should form a federal government so that we can govern our country. That's just a personal thought. We must govern the country for the citizens of our country. The politicians should take that into account. I would like to make three points, Madam Secretary. Firstly, you have probably also heard that there has recently been a study day of the ACV. I am also not an ACV member, but that does not matter about the subject matter in Antwerp. So the subject is alive. Secondly, the reintegration into professional life can be looked at very widely for me. That doesn't necessarily have to be reintegration into the old job. A person's professional life is indeed important, because work is not only a source of income, but also of social contacts and experience. Hence our plea for workable work. Re-integration is important. Thirdly, the recommendations of the NAR on sickness and invalidity insurance, you have not addressed them in detail, but we will do so if there is a new government, and we have to get to work on them. I would like to leave aside the fact that a bridge must be built with the welfare codex. So it would not be bad, I hope that you will also be proactive in doing so, and that we will be proactive in making a number of preparations so that the good recommendations for refinement and adaptation, as you call them, can be put into practice quickly and put into practice on the ground, if there is any possibility of doing so.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u80	I didn't understand the numbers very well. The union is talking about figures that you think are not fair. After that, you provided other figures and I don't know what's going on.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u81	The union's figures are completely different from those of employers. That goes in every direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u82	And what about those you're giving us, like the 35,989 part-time figure?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u83	This is the figure for the number of persons receiving sickness benefits who have resumed their activity. This figure comes from mutualities.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u84	It is true that it is sometimes difficult to find a suitable job, but if we take up the figures I mentioned earlier, it is more than impossible, since it concerns 67% according to these sources. This is very worrying and that is why I was talking about failure. I can hear you have to relativize. But, indeed, there are certain things that need to be reviewed so that this integration path is a success for both the worker and the employer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u85	Madam Minister, in 2010 a catch-up premium was introduced for disabled workers, long-term sick, with the aim of strengthening their purchasing power. Such catch-up premium shall be granted to long-term sick persons who, on 31 December of the year preceding the year of granting, have been recognised as unfit for work for at least one year and who have been recognised as invalid for at least one calendar day in the month of May of the year of granting. The sickness fund of the person concerned then automatically pays the catch-up premium in May, together with the payment of the month of May. The objective of this measure, in particular the strengthening of purchasing power, is, of course, good, but the conditions for granting, as I have just outlined, can lead to undesirable deactivating side effects. Firstly, long-term sick people who can go to work in March or April could deliberately remain ill for a long time until May, until after they have raised that premium. Secondly, long-term sick people could simply refuse an opportunity of temporary short-term employment out of fear of losing that premium. Madam Minister, my first question is a question for clarification. Is it true that persons who are disabled or disabled between 1 January and 31 December and who work temporarily during this period are not entitled to the catch-up premium, but who then temporarily work between January and May in the following year can claim that catch-up premium? My second question is a policy question. Do you also think, as I said, that the conditions for granting grants can have a deactivating effect? My third question is a technical question. On the basis of what criteria and considerations is the level of the lump sums, on which the amount of the catch-up premium is based?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u86	Mr Spooren, as you rightly point out, the social insured person must be recognised as unfit for work for at least one year on 31 December of the previous calendar year and have been recognised as invalid for at least one day in the month of May of the current calendar year in order to claim the annual catch-up premium paid by the sickness fund in May. However, the condition that the insured person must be recognised as unfit for work for at least one year on 31 December of the previous year shall mean that the incapacity for work must have commenced at the latest in the second calendar year preceding the calendar year of the grant of the catch-up premium. In the event of incapacity for work starting on 1 January, the person concerned has not been recognised as unfit for work for one year on 31 December of the same calendar year and will therefore not be entitled to a catch-up premium during the following calendar year. That's the letter of the law. In addition, during that first year of incapacity for work the principle applies that if the State of incapacity for work is not recognised for less than 14 calendar days, that period shall not interrupt the period of primary incapacity. After all, this is a relapse in primary incapacity. During the period of invalidity there is a relapse where there is a new recognition of incapacity for work within three months of the end of the previous period of incapacity for work. This period of relapse is therefore 14 days if you are unable to work, but three months if you are disabled. The RIZIV has not been able to establish, after analysis of the available figures, that the socially insured would significantly allow a spontaneous resumption of work during the period of primary disability or the period of disability to depend on the granting of the catch-up premium. We asked them to do so, and they will not find any trace of it. The catch-up premium originated in the 2008 financial crisis, the banking crisis. In order to maintain the purchasing power of certain disabled persons in the light of this crisis, provision was made for granting the catch-up premium. This measure therefore results from the interprofessional agreement 2009-2010. The initial amount was committed taking into account other measures taken at the time in the framework of the welfare envelope for the benefit sector. That lump sum was originally committed and I assume it was also indexed. The different conditions for granting social benefits were then adjusted in the context of successive welfare adjustments. The amount was also sometimes increased over the years. For example, a shorter period of incapacity for work is required in order to qualify for this catch-up premium, a possible differentiation of the amount according to the duration of incapacity and also a differentiation of the amount according to the precise family situation, with or without family burden. We can also have this debate: is this still topical? It is, of course, contained in social agreements and you know that they are always built on them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u87	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. As I said earlier, the objective of strengthening purchasing power is a good objective. There are people who often have a hard time. I am particularly pleased to hear that, according to the administration, there is no deactivation effect. That's important, isn't it? I didn't know, but I think this has something to do with the concept of relapse that is being used. As a result, it can be tried without risk of losing the contribution and is then, if necessary, recognised as a relapse and further regarded as invalidity or incapacity for work.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u88	Madam Secretary, paramedics working in private ambulance services are required to provide services in non-profit organisations as volunteers connected with their employer. In this way, dayshifts and nightshifts are put together, so they sometimes have to work 48 to 72 hours in one piece, part as a professional employee and part as a volunteer. I have put a question to the Minister for Labour. She says that the inspection services have started several investigations into the infringements and this is also in the case of the work audit, where it is considered whether this should be brought before the labour court. It also says that it would be appropriate to introduce a legislative provision so that abuses can be brought to an end. Madam Secretary, do you agree? Do you also think that voluntary service legislation should be amended to prevent abuses? Do you think that other changes are needed, for example to the Royal Decree which regulates the situation of the voluntary ambulances?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u89	Madam President, Madam Minister, I try to repeat as little as possible. The case has already been clearly outlined by my colleague. They are almost cowboy states where someone first works hours for the bvba and then moves to the non-profit association, with a voluntary fee of sometimes only 3 euros per hour. It is also very important that we call people when something happens to us, to pick us up and take us to a hospital. This must be possible under the most healthy conditions. This situation is very worrying, not only about the wages and working conditions of those people, but also so that they can properly take on this important task for all citizens in this country. TSW did indeed detect infringements. The minutes were forwarded to the Labour Auditorate. I understand that legislation currently allows people to work both for a bvba and for a non-profit association, both linked to the same person, as an employed person and as a volunteer. Does this require a change of law? I understand that Minister Kris Peeters replied to a question from my former colleague Anne Dedry that legislation on volunteers should be amended. That is why I am now asking you this question. Were you consulted at the time by Minister Peeters or recently by Minister Beke or Minister Muylle? Do you agree that there should be a change of law? If so, what change should that be? I also have a question about the budget allocated to the private ambulance services. That budget should be sufficient to give their employees a proper statute and pay them decently. This includes the payment of the supplement for night work and overtime. What budget is currently spent on these services per year? Maybe there's a piste. In 2014, two royal decrees on an administrative and financial statute were adopted for non-firefighters, both volunteers and professionals, in the fire department. Could such a statute be generalised? Firefighters work with degrees, which would already be a problem. However, I can imagine that at least a similar statute could be drawn up in order to limit the situation as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u90	Madam President, Mrs Vanrobaeys, Mrs Willaert, it is an interesting question. I came to Parliament in 1999. The first dossier in which I went into was the status of the paramedics for urgent and non-urgent assistance. I did that with Professor Danny Pieters, who was Professor of Social Law at KU Leuven. At that time, we went to a bec de gaze, as it is called, because it is a whole bunch of powers. This has not been improved by successive state reforms. An ambulanceman isn't a fireman. There are a lot of differences between the status of firefighters and that of the paramedics. In my view, it would be very difficult to introduce a statute such as that of firefighters into private ambulance services, but also into civil protection. We have extended the special status of voluntary firefighters to voluntary ambulances and civil protection volunteers, but with a number of different things in them. I did that with Minister Peeters. An ambulance worker can indeed provide two types of service, both as an employee and as a volunteer for two distinct legal entities. This is a general principle, which also applies to other activities. In addition to his professional activity, a professional football trainer can also train a youth team in the evening as a volunteer. The current envelope is EUR 75 million. As far as working conditions are concerned, this does not fall within my competence, but within that of the Ministers for Labour, also in relation to the Inspectorate for the Supervision of Social Laws. I have no knowledge of the minutes that were drawn up. So far I have not been contacted by one of the three successive Ministers for Employment. I want to get in touch with Minister Muylle and she has enough work to do, because she's still working on it to see what's going on, but I don't know about it at all and it's not reported to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u91	I am surprised that this has not been reported, Madam Minister, and that you do not know anything about it, because CVs have been drawn up and the matter has also been referred to the Labour Auditorate. I know that the status of these people is a huge blur, but here we can only see that there are abuses. I can only agree with my colleague that they are sometimes cowboy states, where the paramedics have to work for hours and actually get completely frustrated and demotivated, whereas they are people who are so motivated to help other people voluntarily. Of course, that's unfortunate. I would also like to refer to Opinion No. 2054 of the 2017 National Labour Council. When legislation on the tax exemption and the exemption from social security contributions was extended to voluntary ambulances for the urgent transport of sick persons, the social partners made a number of recommendations in that opinion. They argued that the legislation merely regulates the part of social security and that it could lead to a number of abuses, because the legislation had no labour law consequences. The gaps left some room for this. That could be a hold-up, if there is any contact between the two ministers, in order to prevent the abuses. That is my call: use that common advice to ensure that the ambulance workers can act in a decent manner when you have an accident.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u92	This has been dragging on for a long time. We have also put resources on the other side. We have done the sum for urgent medical assistance times three, under very difficult circumstances. This has enabled us to create that statute.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u93	That statute is good.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u94	You say that it was even sent to the employment audit centre. I don't have access to what's being sent to the employment audit.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u95	I understand that. I only regret that this is not being passed on, because it is linked. That is also evident from the opinion.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u96	If she has not yet succeeded, we will contact her.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u97	Madam Minister, I would like to join Mrs Vanrobaeys in her speech. I fully understand the complexities, but I think it should be up to all of us to consider what is still possible. It may take another year for the work auditorate to become clear. Meanwhile, these conditions, which have been dragging on for a long time, continue. We do not yet have a ready-made solution, but we do want to look further at what is needed to limit abuses. I understand that people recruited must also immediately sign a document confirming their willingness to work voluntarily. One signs that out of the fear of not being recruited in the ordinary way through the VDAB. The legislation is a blur, but in my opinion it is also a blur for the people on the ground. For those people, we have all the empathy. We therefore want to fully exploit all the possibilities we have to offer solutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u98	I was taught that one should never sign anything that one cannot find. One has to be serious. Such long working hours are not permissible. Those involved have to deal with people who are sick, who are in an ambulance, who need to be dragged out of their homes: those people must be fit and their working hours must be respected. They must indeed report such situations. This may lead to a number of CVs, and that should then be done. We can look at the recommendations, but will they improve everything that goes wrong on the ground? I think they should be on their own. Ambulancers are asked everywhere, so if they take a walk, they go on another.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u99	That can all be good, but if such practices, where an bvba becomes a non-profit association, can all happen just like that, then we must consider what can be done to limit these abuses. A lot of paramedics may be asked, but the pay of an ambulanceman is not to write about home either. If people are recruited in their neighborhood and want to do so, but don't want to sign, then what? Not everyone's equally mouthy to do that and misses a job like that. I believe that we have a responsibility to protect people in this area as much as possible, without wishing to interfere with what has already happened. It would be a good thing if the government could have a discussion on this with Mrs Muylle. Whether we should look at what else can happen, even though I understand that it is a complicated matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-03-55-commissie-ic063x.u100	Thank you, Madam Minister. I think we can close the session here. Good evening to all of you.
