ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you to our committee. On this morning's agenda, we have a series of oral questions for the attention of the Minister of Finance, whom I also welcome. Question No 55000029C by Mrs Yasmine Kherbache is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u2	Madam President, Minister, my question was introduced in mid-July and I have the opportunity to ask you now. It refers to an article published at the time in Trends-Tendances which reports that in 2017, 163,737 Belgian taxpayers reported holding a bank account abroad. The magazine adds that this year, one of the tax's targeted actions is precisely to verify the returns of movable income from an account opened with a bank outside our borders. He states that "number of taxpayers have received in recent weeks a request for information from their tax controller on the basis of data exchanged with foreign states." And there is obviously no question here of the French police! Under this Common Reporting Standard (CRS) mechanism, more non-States have exchanged information on 47 million foreign accounts for a total value of approximately EUR 4,900 billion. The banks of these countries shall report annually the accounts held by non-residents and the amounts in those accounts. However, one expert quoted by Trends-Trends notes that "the tax administration faces major difficulties in exploiting the raw data transmitted in the context of automatic exchange of tax information." Minister, how are these data provided by the CRS mechanism being used? Does the FPS Finance have enough staff to handle this mass of information? For each of the last three years available, how many foreign accounts have been reported to Belgium via the CRS mechanism? And for what total amount per year? In the context of the recent targeted action of the tax authorities, is an investigation planned for each of these accounts held abroad? If only part of the foreign accounts is investigated, on what basis is the selection made? Given that the SRC mechanism provides foreign account amounts, is particular attention given to accounts with significantly higher amounts than the average?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u3	Madam President, Mr Van Hees, that you read Trends-Trends is a good thing! The current use of the data is mainly based on a comparison between the personal income (interest and dividends) obtained through the automatic exchange of tax information (Common Reporting Standard) and the reporting data of the taxpayers concerned by this exchange. A second aspect is to carry out an analysis on an index basis. The FPS Finance relies on its personnel plan to implement the objectives for which it is responsible. The number of valid information we have currently received for the 2016 revenue year is 663,844. The total account balances for this information amount to €90,872,714,317.20, or just over $90 billion. We are the Finances, so we are precise! A number of information may have been received about a foreign account. The number of valid information we received for the 2017 revenue year is currently €1,385,124. The total balance of the accounts relating to this information amounts to EUR 173 810 683 368.27, or just over EUR 170 billion. A number of information may have been received about a foreign account. With respect to the 2018 revenue year, no information has yet been received as the legal deadline for the international exchange of this information ends on September 30, 2019. Control actions are based on risk management and therefore do not by nature cover all accounts held abroad. The key criterion for selection is the discrepancy between reported income and income transmitted via the CRS. The determining factor is not the height of the amounts entered in the accounts but the divergence with the reported revenues. The height of this divergence therefore represents the tax risk.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u4	Minister, thank you for this fairly comprehensive answer. My reflection is that, indeed, these are very large numbers and corresponding amounts: up to more than 170 billion euros for a year with 1.3 million accounts concerned. It's still huge even if it can affect several people. I understand, of course, the operation of the control which is to see the difference between what is declared and the CRS. I assume that we can do this in a computer-based way and that human intervention is not required. However, this mass of information raises the question of potentially very useful information: is there enough staff to control this flow of information? The expert I was quoting seemed to say that this was not the case and I tend to believe it. One point concerns us not only in this particular case, but in everything concerning fiscal control: hiring staff to the FPS Finances does not cost; on the contrary, it is staff that can potentially earn. We are therefore asking ourselves why this "population" policy is applied to the FPS Finances. This is counterproductive at the budgetary level. Therefore, I invite you to review it because it continues. Indeed, the staff is continually reduced. In my view, a selection targeted at the very large amounts that would appear to be worthy of action because it would help to target the budgetary risk that could lead to a slippage.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u5	Mr Minister, this question concerns a dossier that has been going on for some time, particularly the tax impasse on foreign real estate, in particular the Belgian tax on foreign residences. On 25 July last, the European Commission decided to refer Belgium to the Court of Justice for failing to properly implement the rules on the calculation of rental income. This situation may lead to a difference in tax treatment and may eventually discourage Belgian residents from buying property abroad. In its judgment of 12 April 2018, the Court ruled that the Belgian provisions on rental income are contrary to EU law. The rental income of taxpayers in Belgium from real estate abroad is calculated on the basis of the real rental value while the rental income from real estate in Belgium is based on the cadastral value. This means tax discrimination. This means unequal tax treatment. Since no measures have yet been taken to comply with this April 2018 judgment, the European Commission has decided to initiate infringement proceedings against Belgium. A letter of formal notice was sent in November 2018. However, the applicable legislation has not been amended since then. The Commission is now asking the EU Court of Justice to impose a financial penalty in the form of a lump sum of almost EUR 5 000 per day, to be paid from the day after the transposition deadline laid down in the Directive has expired, until Belgium fulfils its obligations. Mr Minister, this is indeed a dossier that has been dragging on for a long time. I also understand that the solution is not obvious. There could be proverbial boxes of Pandora opened and by that, of course, I mean the AI. Minister, I would like to take a look at your response to this new development.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u6	Thank you, Mr Ravyts, for your question. You have mentioned that on 25 July 2019 the European Commission decided to refer Belgium to the European Court of Justice of the European Union, because Belgian taxpayers are in some cases calculating income from rented real estate abroad on the basis of the real rental value, while in similar cases the income from rented real estate in Belgium is based on the cadastral value. The proceedings before the European Court of Justice will be initiated through the submission by the European Commission of an application, followed by the service of the application to the Belgian State. At that time, the federal government will formally respond by submitting a defence to the European Court of Justice. Given the current state of the Belgian federal government, in particular a government in current cases, which has in fact been the case since January 2019, and in view of the ongoing balancing exercise to be made by the various actors in that system at federal level, it is being examined how a tax solution can be found that adequately responds to the conflict raised in the tax treatment of foreign real estate income with EU law. Should there soon be a full federal government, it can give a full answer. Unfortunately, this is a dossier that my predecessor did not address during the previous legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u7	Minister, you are well aware that Belgians with holiday homes abroad have always had questions about the tax return in recent years. Let me give you an example. In the case of non-rented properties, there is a difference. In this case, an alternative local value can be entered, e.g. the valeur local brute in France or the valor catastral in Spain. In any case, there is still a great deal of confusion on the part of those concerned. I'm being addressed to that, too. We really need to work towards a solution. It seems, however, that this will only happen when an effective government comes with full power.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u8	Madam President, Minister, yesterday we discussed tax fraud in the Committee on Finance and decided, among other things, that we might also organise hearings with you. Private Bank HSBC's file led me to submit an oral question. The press mentioned an extended friendly settlement, with an agreement of EUR 300 million. In recent years there has been a lot of discussion in the Committee on Finance, including with your predecessor, about the reports on the fight against tax fraud. More specifically, the question arose as to whether or not the so-called regularisations are included in the communication. Since 1 January 2018, a new instrument, the REPRERE measurement system, was put into operation that would allow for faster and more accurate figures. For some time now, therefore, it is possible to measure how much is actually collected. There is a big difference between the collections and the effective collections from fraud files. With regard to the effective collections from such dossiers, it must nevertheless be admitted that the figures under the Michel I administration, when they were still in full power, stabilised. However, it is often said that the Michael I administration never managed to match the results of the end of its term of office, 2014, in the previous legislature. In this connection, Minister, I have the following specific questions. Can you confirm the extended amicable settlement achieved in the large HSBC file? This year, investments were made in information technology and personnel to give the tax inspection sufficient leverage to tackle fraud cases. If so, to what extent? Spontaneous corrections, i.e. regularisations, have been corrected for some time in the figures for the total receipts of operational services. What are the interim results for the first eight months of 2019? Will the two Flemish BBI directors, Ghent and Antwerp, continue to benefit the majority of the taxes imposed by the BBI this year? Does the Walloon BBI management still sign for less than 6% of the collections in 2019?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u9	Mr Ravyts, I have to say that you have a specific speaking time for an oral question under the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u10	Excuse me, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u11	No problem. In the future, I will have to ask you to complete your question more quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u12	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u13	Madam President, thank you. Minister, like us, you have learned that there would be no criminal proceedings against the HSBC branch since it accepted a transaction that would amount to almost 295 million euros. I am not going to ask you to rule on a court decision, but the bank is clearly suspected here of acting as a broker to facilitate fraud. It would be appropriate to provide for a reference scale of fines based on the seriousness of the facts alleged. This was also one of the recommendations of the Panama Papers Committee, which I quote: "It is appropriate to provide for effective judicial review in order to comply with the provisions of Constitutional Court Decision No. 83/2016, in particular by fixing, on the basis of the fraud costs concerned, reference amounts of fines which come in excess of the amount of taxes evaded for the determination of the total amount of the transaction; by organising at least indirect publicity of the transactions concluded; and by prohibiting a possibility of transaction after the closure of the investigation." I would like to know where your Government is on this recommendation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u14	Madam President, I can confirm that the General Administration of the BBI has included itself in the HSBC criminal case and played an important role in this criminal proceedings, but I cannot comment on an amicable settlement, because it falls within the jurisdiction of the King's Attorney. The previous government has decided to replace the audit functions at Finance one-on-one. The staff plan implementing that decision has been approved and is also being implemented. In addition, the BBI has invested in the further development of the Belgian Internet Service Center (BISC) and a data mining team, both in terms of number and equipment. The results of the BBI are communicated both globally and by regional management, as in any major organization, in April of the year following that to which they relate. An interim publication, without the results being validated and verified, gives a distorted picture. You can find the results of 2018 in the answer to Parliament's question No. 2571 by popular representative Vanvelthoven of 11 March 2019. The influence of the amicable settlement in the HSBC case on the results is limited, since it is not within the competence of the BBI but is closed by the King's Attorney. I can confirm, however, that Namur's BBI director in several criminal records manages the bourgeois trial. Mr Bayet, I invite you to question the Minister of Justice, who has exclusive jurisdiction over criminal transactions. The FPS Finance does not have the power to propose the conclusion of a criminal transaction. Under article 216bis of the Code of Criminal Investigation, only the Crown Prosecutor may propose to suspects, accused or accused, a criminal transaction in order to extinguish criminal proceedings against him by payment of a sum of money. The draft transposition of DAC 6 will be presented to the Council of Ministers in the coming months. It will be proposed to the House for transposition by 31 December 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u15	Minister, we will certainly be able to return to the staff aspect of the BBI at the hearing. The newspapers cannot always be believed, but press releases show that the satisfaction of the staff of the FPS Finance in general and of the BBI in particular is not that high.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u16	Thank you, Minister. I was hoping that there would be better communication on a matter of this importance within the government, even if it was a minority. So I'm going to follow your advice and question the Minister of Justice. Not legislating on this issue gives the impression that when you're rich and you have money, you can buy everything. That's not right at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u17	Minister, single-parent families are at an increased risk of poverty. This risk is all the higher when maintenance payments are not paid. The Maintenance Claims Service (Secal) was established in 2004 to combat poverty caused by the non-payment of maintenance claims by recovering claims from defaulting debtors and providing monthly advances on child pensions. The Court of Auditors has recently analysed the operation of the Secal. It appears that, despite the significant legislative and organisational changes that he has experienced since 2004, numerous shortcomings remain in the processing of requests for assistance from citizens, in the collection of claims, in the management of payments, in the operation of computer tools and in the monitoring and supervision of his missions. Mr Minister, following these findings, the Court of Auditors has made a long series of recommendations. In particular, the Court considers it necessary to automate the calculation of the maintenance claim by means of an application to avoid errors and facilitate the work of agents, to simplify the procedures for filing applications with the Secal, to put in place quickly integrated, durable and structured IT solutions to manage the files – from the introduction of the Secal's application for assistance until the final recovery of maintenance claims – but also to comply with the obligation to publish the annual assessment report. Minister, have you read this report? How do you intend to follow up on the various recommendations made?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u18	Madam Member, I have indeed taken note of the Court of Auditors' report on the Maintenance Claims Service. The actions envisaged by the administration – which I have approved – in response to the recommendations made are already mentioned in the report. Some of these actions are planned and others are under way. In general, many actions are linked to the finalization of IT projects aimed at the integrated processing of all files. This finalisation is scheduled for 1 September 2020. These projects deal with the management of requests for assistance in connection with a new simplified and intuitive form, the complete automation of the calculation of the debt, the processing of amounts due, recovered or pending, as well as the support and monitoring of the collection, the prescription or the irrecoverability of debts. In addition, it will be possible for creditors to consult online the evolution of the request for intervention. The completion of this IT project will then allow the execution of other actions, such as the development and monitoring of key performance indicators and the implementation of internal control. Meanwhile, we have launched operations such as updating instructions, training employees, cooperation with other public services – such as CPAS – and the exchange and use of information available under the Only Once Act. Finally, I would like to add that a bill has been approved, allowing more people to appeal to the Secal. Previously, the entitlement to advances on maintenance payments, granted by this service, was reserved for persons whose net monthly resources did not exceed 1,800 euro indexed and, where appropriate, increased. In order to extend the scope to other beneficiaries, this ceiling has been gradually raised to €2,500 per month.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u19	Minister, thank you. We are, of course, aware of the existence of this bill. As you know, we are very attentive to the Secal, but we would like it to be the subject of greater publicity. Indeed, many people are not informed of its existence. We will also pay great attention to strengthening the human resources necessary for its proper functioning.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u20	Mr Minister, we decided yesterday, on the proposal of several Members of the Finance Committee, to have an exchange of views on tax fraud on our agenda, with you and your Director-General, to see how this service works. As a result, my questions will be very brief. We have seen an increase in Belgian payments to certain tax havens. This includes an increase in payments from EUR 82 billion to EUR 206 billion for 2018. We can be surprised. We also know that the tax fraud monitoring service would be understaffed and that it would find it difficult to control all reported payments. Maybe we should see how it could be reorganized. Minister, do you confirm a significant increase in this type of payments? What could justify it? Do you have figures on the financial mass placed in our country – not only the one that leaves our country, but also the one that is placed in it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u21	Mrs Jadin, the payments you are talking about are those which must be declared on the basis of Article 307, paragraph 1, paragraph 2 of the Income Tax Code 1992: all payments made directly or indirectly to persons or permanent establishments in a State which, first, has not actually or substantially implemented the standard for the exchange of information applied on request or, second, is on the list of non-existent or low-tax States; and when the amount of payments made in a taxable period has reached a minimum amount of EUR 100 000. We cannot really talk about a sharp increase in payments to tax havens. A large part of these payments come from the financial sector. The amounts quoted go back to Belgium in the same proportion. Net departures are then zero, but returns are not reported. The Tax Paradis unit does have four collaborators, but they are supported by the ISI dataminers for the analyses. Potentially, all ISI controllers or tax controllers may initiate an investigation into a case identified by the cell. The FPS Finance does not have statistical figures on this type of incoming flows. It is also very difficult to have a valid point of comparison, since Belgium is one of the few countries with 275F declarations.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u22	Mr Minister, this is very interesting and certainly important information that I will not fail to take into account in the exchange of views that we will soon have to deepen one or the other allegation sometimes made a little quickly. I am looking forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u23	Mr Minister, anyone who makes a donation to an association today via Facebook cannot claim a tax certificate. Reports in the media indicate that the FPS Finance is investigating the issue and that your cabinet is working on a solution. My questions are very clear and clear. What is the current state of the investigation? What approach is proposed? What timing do you use?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u24	Mr Vermeersch, the subject has recently been widely discussed in the press. The administration has examined whether the donations made by a donor through an online portal platform to a recognised association can qualify for tax reductions for cash grants. That study has shown that this method of donation can indeed qualify for the tax relief mentioned above, provided that the conditions already apply to online donations or internet donations are met. For the sake of clarity, the administration has recently published a circular on its website, which explains the intended terms and conditions regarding the online payment platforms. In short, the payment platform should ensure full transparency about the identity of the donor, the endowed institutions and the amount donated.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u25	Minister, I was not clear when it would be resolved specifically for Facebook. That gifts are becoming more and more important, we see every day. This week, for example, there was the whole issue of baby Pia. Private gifts must compensate that our government fails to take care of our children. Your colleague and party colleague spoke this week about the efficiency of our government. May I ask for this to be a priority?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u26	Mr Vermeersch, the circular was published on the website two weeks ago. A circular shall apply immediately. You've been asking the question since when it applies. So it's been two weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u27	Mr Minister, thousands of Belgians with dual Belgian-American nationality, whom it has agreed to call "accidental Americans", face considerable injustices in banking and tax matters. They are typically Belgians born in the United States and who sometimes resided there only a few days or weeks. In banking, they face refusals to open, account closures or less access to certain financial services. These obstacles range from administrative harassment to actual discrimination. These Belgians, for example, face enormous difficulties in contracting a bank loan or in subscribing to a pension savings. Soon they won't be able to do it at all. In tax matters, they are subject, without knowing it, to tax with the United States administration on the basis of the citizen based taxation. The renunciation of American nationality, a solution that many of them are considering in view of the heavy constraints they face, is both costly and difficult. In fact, it is almost considered a crime under American law. The agreement between Belgium and the United States obliges financial institutions to notify the US Treasury of the assets they hold on behalf of US and therefore binational customers. Do not carry out this reporting exposes banks to heavy sanctions. Given the administrative burden this represents, most banks have chosen to separate themselves from these binational customers. It is essential that the government implement solutions to avoid the consequences this American legislation has on our citizens. My questions are simple, minister. Are you aware of this problem? How many of our fellow citizens are involved? What initiatives have you already taken? How many accounts could be closed as of December 31, 2019, which is the end date of the moratorium for these US binationals? Does not the cooperation of Belgian banks with the US Treasury raise problems of legality under European law, particularly with regard to the protection of private data? Do you intend to ask the US government, in coordination with the European Union, to amend the FATCA law so as not to target people who have no connection with the United States other than accidental nationality? Do you intend to ask the United States to extend the moratorium on the social security number that is being asked of these binationals? Finally, do you intend to require the Belgian banks to stop any discrimination against these Belgians and to respect their customers' privacy more? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u28	The problem that you call "accidental Americans" is known to my administration and concerns in Belgium, according to the information provided by the financial sector, a few thousand people. In terms of principles, I would like to point out that the FATCA agreement organises an automatic and reciprocal exchange of financial information between States and does not in any way alter the tax obligations to which US citizens are subject, nor does it alter the provisions of the Convention on the Prevention of Double Taxation signed on 27 November 2006 between Belgium and the United States, which allows the United States to tax US citizens, in accordance with American law. However, Belgium is obliged to comply with the terms of the agreement and to provide the relevant US authority with the necessary banking information concerning US residents or citizens. At the exchange level, the main problem encountered is that financial institutions must ask their customers for their tax identification numbers (Tax Identification Number or TIN). However, many people do not provide their TIN, which is at the root of their problem with our banking institutions. Notifyed by many foreign administrations of the problem of accidental Americans, the U.S. administration has agreed to a temporary solution consisting of accepting on condition that the information can be provided to it without the client's TIN number, but with its date of birth and provided that this TIN number continues to be sought and demanded by the client. On this point, my administration can only encourage people with American citizenship to comply with current American legislation, in particular by obtaining and providing TIN to their banking institutions. Indeed, the provision of TIN must put an end to their banking and financial harassment. As regards data protection, Article 3 § 7 of the Agreement specifies that all information exchanged is subject to the obligation of confidentiality and other guarantees provided for by the OECD/Council of Europe Convention on Mutual Administrative Assistance in Tax Matters and the Belgian Law of 16 December 2015, which organises the exchange at Belgian level and contains a chapter on privacy and confidentiality, the provisions of which have been validated by the Data Protection Authority. These provisions provide the customer with a full right to information and a right to rectification of the information exchanged. However, it is clear that the situation of the persons concerned is special when their relationship with the United States is tenuous. According to my information, the Finnish Presidency of the European Union intends to send an official letter to the US political authorities to draw their attention once again to this problem. The solution could be to make final the temporary solution to provide the necessary information, it seems, but, subject to conditions, with the date of birth. To ask the United States not to target accidental Americans, however, seems to me to be a difficult solution. As regards the closure of accounts, this is generally a purely commercial decision of the financial institution. However, financial institutions are required to comply with Directive 2014/92 on the comparability of payment account fees, the change of payment account and access to a payment account with basic benefits. In this regard, it must be clear that the exchange of banking information should not lead to discrimination against specific categories of customers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u29	Minister, thank you. I will analyze in detail your answer, which is relatively technical. But I really invite you to take this issue up proactively. I personally know several Belgians born in the United States, who have never lived there and who are now experiencing very important problems - bank accounts closed - to whom the American administration asks for social security numbers, urges them to register in the framework of American tax law, etc. You are talking about double taxation and the double taxation agreement, but it only works for the taxes defined in a similar way between the two parties. This condition is not met by the United States. In particular, social security contributions, deducted from income on which tax is calculated in Belgium, are taxed in the United States. In all cases, although binationals had paid their taxes in Belgium, they were then taxed in the United States on the basis of American laws that taxed income, wealth and other things differently. I know the case of a Belgian who spent all three weeks of her life in the United States. She was born there and never had any ties there again. Today, her bank accounts are closed because she would not be taxed in the United States. It has never had any income in this country, it has nothing to do with the United States and could have to pay tens of thousands of euros according to very strange US tax laws, since they impose the overall income of all American citizens regardless of the origin of these revenues, even if they have no connection with the United States. This really is discrimination. You're talking about a few thousand Belgians. This could amount to hundreds of millions of euros, which could be claimed in a completely unjustified way by the US Treasury at the expense of these Belgians. This is a very important and serious problem which is completely unwarranted in tax and legal terms. This issue needs to be addressed. The moratorium on these issues will end on December 31, 2019. It's more than time to have a firm reaction. This is not a question of avoiding a tax due. There is no question of Belgians paying taxes to the US Treasury in a justified manner. On the contrary, it is an injustice that has been committed by the latter towards them. Therefore, I thank you for addressing this issue proactively, not just through the Finnish Presidency.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u30	Mr Minister, Flemings who have been travelling to France, there are quite a few people who ask me about the price for the so-called E85 fuel or superethanol, which is quite low in France. The government is currently working on a legal framework to enable it to be sold here too. That falls within the competence of Minister Marghem. The cars also need to be transformed. But I have a question concerning your competence in this matter. According to the specialist press, the FPS Finance has already announced that the product, when sold here, will be taxed in the same way as petrol. There would be at least 60 cents per litre of excise duty. The total price would be about 2.2 euros per litre. Why will E85 be taxed in the same way as the commonly used petrol, while E85 is still a lot more environmentally friendly? In the National Climate and Energy Plan, the share of biofuels is not really negative. Well, I'm still kind of expressing myself. The progressive parties are already running into the issue of biofuels, which is also being discussed in the Committee on Energy, the Environment and the Climate this afternoon, where I will question your colleague. Does this not prevent the commercialisation of this fuel in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u31	Indeed, many Belgians travel to France. The current legislation on excise duties provides for E85 to be taxed as the fuel it replaces, in this case petrol. The rate applicable today for petrol is therefore also applicable for E85. The fiscal advantage of E85 requires an amendment to the Programme Act of 27 December 2004 and would have a certain budgetary impact. In any case, it is a political choice. A minister in a government of current affairs does not make political choices.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u32	The file will undoubtedly be continued, but perhaps the crux of the whole dossier will be dealt with by your colleague Marghem this afternoon, because, of course, it will take a KB to get this into effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u33	Mrs. Dierick is not here. Her question No. 55000263C expires.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u34	Minister, there are many questions and misunderstandings on the ground about how the tax administration takes into account investments in brick, including those made "as a good father". In a number of cases, the tax authorities seem to want to tax real estate at 50% and reclassify capital gains or rents as professional activities. The experts interviewed – particularly in the press – believe that controls and decisions seem subjective and revolve around the notion of "normal management of a private heritage", with the interpretations that this can generate. Minister, do you confirm a particular concentration of tax administration controls on real estate investments? Are these checks carried out on the basis of clear criteria or are they left to the controller's discretion? The notion of "normal management of a private heritage" is unclear and no one seems to know from how much real estate income can be reclassified. In some cases, there are two apartments, in others, several dozen kots, without requalification. What do you intend to do to provide greater legal certainty and to define objective criteria? Finally, do you know how many people are involved for this year?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u35	Mrs Fonck, taxation of real estate income has always been one of the actions taken by the tax authorities. The administration has an increasing number of information on buildings located in Belgium and abroad. This allows it to improve risk management in order to carry out targeted control actions. The use of information to achieve more structured and effective risk management does not, however, imply that taxation of real estate income has taken precedence over other tax issues. These actions are carried out to the extent that the administration seeks to ensure that each taxpayer complies with its tax obligations, in accordance with the regulations and legislation in force. Vigilance must be exercised against those who are at risk of escaping the law. Current transactions involve both taxpayers with multiple buildings and owners of a single property. In this case, the tax risks consist in the absence of a declaration of the cadastral income of property situated in Belgium or abroad, rental income or taxable capital gain, income from the rental of a furnished unit, etc. In this context, it is also asked to check whether real estate transactions depart from the normal management of a private asset. The assessment of the professional nature of an activity must take account of several criteria. It is impossible for the administration to establish them precisely without developing a standard – which is the prerogative of the legislator alone. However, taxpayers can obtain legal certainty by contacting the Anticipated Decisions Department. The question of the requalification of capital gains or rents into professional activities for operations which go beyond the normal management of a private asset is not a specific action and therefore cannot be quantified.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u36	Minister, thank you for your answer. You have pointed out evidence, such as the need to respect the law. However, this is not the purpose of this question. Similarly, I know that there are many criteria relating to the use of borrowing, risk-taking, speculative intent, the repetitive nature of transactions, the possible activities of a taxpayer in the real estate sector, etc. However, the subjective nature of the way in which each controller will assess different situations has to be seen. When one has such a difference, such a variable geometry, it is challenging. If your only answer is to say that all they have to do is address the Anticipated Decisions Department, I'm not sure it will solve the issues on the ground. It seems heavy to me and won't fix anything. There are requalifications. Some are justified. Others seem obviously problematic because similar cases are not requalified. I really find that there is work to be done in this area to avoid this variable geometry. This would be beneficial to tax fairness and fairness, avoiding the sudden transformation of many into corporations, since taxation would be no more than 50 per cent in the event of requalification. You know what I do. You should therefore take your hand with the tax administration. That would be all the benefits for everyone: the state and investors, as well as those who work as a good father of the family.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u37	Madam President, Minister, as you know, since 2011, the European Union has adopted several directives aimed at improving administrative cooperation between Member States in the field of direct taxation (DAC directives). This automatic exchange of information initially involved only five types of income: professional income, tokens of presence, certain life insurance products, pensions, and property and property income. This directive has been amended five times since then and your servant has been able to participate in the last four. For example: for DAC 2, bank accounts have been added; for DAC 3, there has been an extension to advance rulings and transfer pricing agreements; for DAC 4, the country-by-country declaration of the reporting fiscal year has been made mandatory for the parent entity; for DAC 5, the fight against money laundering is foreseen; for DAC 6, the obligation to transmit cross-border tax planning provisions is provided. The European Commission is responsible for assessing the effectiveness of the exchange of information. Minister, since the European Commission has already published an analysis report for the first three directives, have you already received an analysis report for DAC 4 and DAC 5, DAC 6 to be transposed before the end of the year into Belgian law? If you have already received these assessments, what are the conclusions in terms of the effectiveness of the information exchange process? With regard to Belgium, did the information received allow the competent authorities to better combat fraud and tax evasion. If so, has this had a significant impact on the revenue recorded by the Consolidated Revenue Fund?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u38	Mr. Bayet, no evaluation of the last three DAC directives has been provided to us. At the level of the specific pillars of the FPS Finances, information received through the exchange of information between the DAC 1 and DAC 2 tax administrations has helped to combat tax evasion and evasion by allowing the verification of a significant number of taxpayers. These audits resulted in a significant increase in taxable bases. For DAC 1, on foreign pension income, 102,669 taxpayers were audited for a basic taxable adjustment of €363,702,900. With regard to foreign earnings, 65,455 taxpayers were audited for a basic taxable adjustment of €640,991,987. With regard to foreign real estate income, 87,257 taxpayers were audited for a basic taxable adjustment of €72,196,270. For DAC 2, on foreign income, 1,424 taxpayers were audited for a basic taxable adjustment of €247,674. The additional revenue impact for the Consolidated Revenue Fund is not the subject of statistics. At the SME pillar level, it is only at the beginning of 2020 that conclusions on the results of test actions launched during the year can be drawn. At the level of the largest companies, the demand for evaluation of DACs 4, 5 and 6 in operational and budgetary terms is premature. This pillar processes information obtained through the exchange of country-by-country declarations. The deadline for completing UBO records is September 30, 2019. My administration is preparing a legislative initiative on the automatic and mandatory exchange of information on cross-border tax instructions. With regard to the general administration of the ISI, there are no direct detailed statistics on the effect of automatic exchanges, as the ISI works more in often complex business terms and in an international environment. However, the impact of DACs 1, 2 and 3, as well as that of the CRS, is indisputable and has been a considerable aid in the case dealt with. Very important cases based on this information are still under way. The indirect effect of these provisions on taxpayers' behaviour is also apparent. This is far from negligible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u39	Minister, thank you for this technical and precise information. I am pleased that DAC 1, 2 and 3 have already borne fruit. I'll come back to you when we get the assessments for DAC 4 and 5. I hope we can quickly talk about the transposition of DAC 6. Clearly, it helps us. It's just a matter of tax justice. So it's good to work on these files.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u40	Madam President, Minister, in early September, in Germany, a first case was opened concerning the CumEx Files tax scandal. These CumEx Files have highlighted two sets that have been in use since 2001 and are intended solely to avoid tax. The first, called "CumCum", consists, for a domestic investor, of selling its shares abroad for a short period, in order to avoid taxation on the dividends related to it. The shares are subsequently returned to that investor. The second, known as "CumEx", is to sell and resell shares very quickly around the day the dividend is paid, so much so that the tax administration no longer manages to identify its true owner, allowing several people to benefit from a tax credit for a single security. Where the CumCum mechanism is at the limit of legality – we can talk about it again in terms of morality – the CumEx, on the other hand, is clearly a tax fraud. Various European states have already legislated to put an end to this problem. At the European level, the damage that would result from the CumEx Files is significant. It is estimated at over EUR 50 billion. These include EUR 31.8 billion for Germany, EUR 17 billion for France, EUR 4.5 billion for Italy and just over EUR 200 million for Belgium. Moreover, many European banking institutions are said to be involved in these practices of optimisation, fraud and tax evasion. Since Belgium has also been affected by this matter, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. What follow-up has been given by your administration following revelations about the CumEx Files? Have specific methods been developed by tax authorities to effectively combat this type of assembly? Finally, perhaps my last question is more a matter for your colleague from the Justice Department. Have there been any prosecutions against companies that set up CumEx Files, like Germany?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u41	Mr Bayet, in order to combat abuses in the area of furniture discounting, the legislator introduced at the beginning of the year (on 11 January 2019) the law on measures to combat tax evasion and avoidance in respect of furniture discounting. These amendments are summarized as follows. Article 262, 3° of the CIR provides that the withholding tax shall be payable by the beneficiaries of the income in respect of income from capital and movable property for which the advance payment has been unduly repaid to the beneficiary of the income or which has been improperly collected as a prepayment exemption, on the basis of an incorrect certificate or from collective or individual savings accounts which do not satisfy the conditions of the pension savings fund. As far as pension funds are concerned, Article 266, paragraph 4, of the CIR applies: the fact that a beneficiary of a pension fund has not held in full ownership for an uninterrupted period of at least 60 days the securities which produce the dividends constitutes a rebuttable presumption that the legal act or all legal acts with which the dividends are linked is not authentic. In this case, there is no waiver of the collection of the furniture discount. I come to Article 281/1 of the CIR: no personal expense is charged in respect of dividends when the beneficiary of a pension fund has not held in full ownership for an uninterrupted period of at least 60 days the securities which produce dividends. The 201 million euros you're talking about are not a CumEx fraud, but rather a fraud of return of personal prepayments on the basis of falsified supporting documents. In this regard, an administrative and judicial investigation is under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u42	Minister, thank you for your answer. Indeed, the amendment of the legislation makes it possible to go further. That is why I encourage you and your administration to remain attentive to this type of procedure that facilitates tax evasion. It is a matter of avoiding discussing it again here on the occasion of a new scandal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u43	At the beginning of September, Minister, it became known that the National Bank had decided to create new explicit expectations for banks and insurance companies operating in the residential real estate market in order to actually encourage them to be more cautious in granting mortgage loans. It was also said that consultations would be launched within the financial sector in order to bring these new expectations into force as early as 2020. The standards and criteria used today in the procedure for granting housing loans would also be strengthened. These measures are mainly part of the findings made by the European Central Bank, but also of the European Systemic Risk Board. They claim that the real estate market in Belgium has once again become more vulnerable. The Confederation of Construction has already responded and recognises the problem somewhere, but warns of a possible real estate crisis. Mr Minister, that is why we have the following questions. Do you recognise the problem of the increasing vulnerability of our real estate market? How do you assess the measures taken by the National Bank in the context of the principle of prudence with regard to the granting of mortgage loans? How do you stand on the concerns of the Confederation of Construction, which warns of a possible real estate crisis?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u44	Since Mr Arens was not present, his attached question No 55000396C fell.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u45	Mr President, real estate markets play a major role in the economy. They are not only essential for successful acquisitions and sales of goods but also play a key role in the possible risk to financial stability. In most recent financial crises – I am thinking of the global financial crisis of 2007-2008 or the real estate and financial crisis of the 1990s in Scandinavian countries – real estate markets have played a central role as a catalyst for risk. Given the systemic importance of real estate markets, it is therefore not surprising that the supervisory authorities, mandated to ensure financial stability, are following developments in these markets closely. Indeed, it has been some time since the National Bank of Belgium warned against increasing vulnerabilities in real estate markets. In its latest macro-prudential contribution, the National Bank expresses its growing concern about the further relaxation of credit conditions and standards and calls on banks to implement a prudent lending policy, particularly with regard to mortgage credit. The National Bank is not alone in this analysis. Several international institutions, including the ECB, the European Systemic Risk Board, the OECD and the IMF, point to increasing vulnerabilities in the Belgian real estate market. However, it should be noted that none of the above institutions are based on the baseline scenario of a real estate crisis. Such a crisis, according to the estimates of these institutions, continues to be a major risk. In other words, the chances are very limited. However, due attention should be paid to increasing vulnerabilities so that the accumulation of risks in the long term would not result in an unmanageable systemic risk. It is too early to make a final assessment of the measures taken by the National Bank since the specific measures envisaged by the Bank have not yet been taken into account. I would also like to stress that this is a national bank's own initiative in its role as a macro-prudential authority and that neither the government nor I, as finance minister, have been actively involved in the preparation or development of measures. I was informed about the bank's intentions. Recent communication from the bank shows that macro-prudential measures are primarily aimed at limiting the creation of new excessively risky loans. In this respect, it is certainly not the intention to completely close down access to credit. Credit lenders, including young families, should still be able to access credit. Rather, it is intended to avoid the accumulation of excessive risks that in the long term not only threaten financial stability but could also put households in a hopeless debt position.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u46	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand, of course, the sensitivity to the vulnerability. Caution is definitely appropriate. However, we must also ensure at all times that we do not set the bar too high. As you point out, with good records, young families should certainly continue to have the opportunity to obtain a mortgage credit with favourable conditions. We must also avoid dealing with a real estate crisis. Hence the need for caution.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u47	In the absence of Mrs Gijbels, her question No. 55000630C.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u48	Madam President, Minister, the future of the largest forest on our planet, the Amazon forest, has recently been at the top of the political agenda due to forest fires. This is more than justified, for example because of the essential role of the Amazon forest in our fight against climate change and the enormous diversity of the rainforest. Of course, we must appeal to the Bolsonaro Government for its responsibility, but there are other instruments that we can and must use. Up to 80% of deforestation in Brazil is due to the production of soya and beef. Only a few companies hold the majority of these industries. These companies are financed by a limited number of financial players. BNP Paribas is such a central lender. The bank finances these companies for 3 billion dollars and is also a major shareholder of some of them. The impact of BNP Paribas is such that an international coalition of NGOs identifies the bank as one of the dirty boxes driving forwardstation. A nice alliteration, but not a title to be proud of. The Belgian State, with almost 8%, is the main shareholder of BNP Paribas and therefore has an important vote in the shareholders' meeting, as well as a representative on the board of directors. That is why, Minister, I would like to ask you the following questions. Firstly, can the government verify whether BNP Paribas actively fulfils its role as lender and shareholder by advocating a truly sustainable forest policy, by thoroughly monitoring the supply chains of these companies, monitoring illegal deforestation convictions, submitting or supporting shareholder resolutions on strict climate, environmental and human rights standards? Does the bank intend to withdraw when companies fail to comply with the strict standards? Secondly, has Belgium seriously questioned BNP Paribas about the conditions under which the loans in question were granted? Thirdly, can the government guarantee that the bank has exercised its maximum influence to influence the policies of these companies? Fourthly and finally, will the Belgian Government respond to the recent call by Norwegian investors Storebrand and KLP, and will it encourage BNP Paribas through a shareholder resolution or other means to exert pressure on the companies concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u49	Minister, my question is on the same subject. Fairfin has just revealed that Belgian banks are investing more than $6 billion in companies that are guilty of deforestation and human rights violations in the Amazon forest. According to a recent survey, there is evidence that soybean and beef companies, such as the multinational Cargill, are involved in the arson in the Amazon forest in recent months. By providing billions of dollars in loans, insurance and investment, the Belgian banks allow the agricultural sector to continue its activities and expand them, thus contributing to the destruction of the Amazon forest. BNP Paribas is at the centre of the class in this field. This bank has invested more than $3 billion in these activities. I hear that my colleague is talking about $10 billion, but perhaps it concerns the whole of BNP Paribas, while the $3 billion would concern the Belgian side. But the Belgian State is a shareholder of the entire bank. Fairfin even states that the pension fund's money could be invested in the devastation of the Amazon forest. I must not recall – as my colleague did – that the Belgian State is the first shareholder of BNP Paribas, that it has directors on its board of directors and that it is the beneficiary of dividends from profits made on the destruction of the Amazon forest. Minister, how do you justify such investments? I ask you the question in this way because you are not the shareholder in your personal capacity, but the final political manager of this investment, of this capital within BNP Paribas. Do you intend to take initiatives to stop this situation? Which ones? With regard to the representatives of the Belgian State on the board of directors of BNP Paribas, I guess your answer is a bit because we have already had several exchanges on their role on this board of directors. You tend to say that they follow a policy of independent directors on this board of directors. Is it not time for them to stop defending the bank's pursuit of profit and defend the interests and obligations of our country, which has ratified various international treaties on sustainable development and climate? I believe that the directors representing the Belgian State on the board of directors of BNP Paribas must defend Belgian interests, which are in particular to respect the agreements we have signed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u50	Sir, as you know, speaking time is limited by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u51	Madam President, I know it's two minutes. I made a few parentheses to my written question. I won't do it anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u52	There is room for improvement everywhere, even in the timing of questions! As you said, the question has already been asked several times and, indeed, administrators are independent in their role. I asked BNP Paribas about this and received the following information. BNP Paribas regularly strengthens policies for sectors linked to deforestation, such as palm oil, paper pulp and agriculture, to ensure that they are consistent with the zero net deforestation commitment, which the group engaged in its financing and investment activities. BNP Paribas wants its customers to apply the best practices to protect natural ecosystems and biodiversity. The bank asks traders in agricultural commodities to set up a traceability system for the products they trade. In Brazil, the group's staff are in dialogue with the soy and cattle producers to ensure that they apply the sustainability principles. All customers operating in the Amazon and Cerrado area have obtained a certificate or are in the process of obtaining it. As far as beef production is concerned, BNP Paribas refers to the best practices of the Global Roundtable for Sustainable Beef, a multi-stakeholder initiative committed to the continued sustainability of the global beef value chain. BNP Paribas also plays a proactive role in the provision and development of new and sustainable financing. As an illustration, in July 2019, Marfrig successfully issued a sustainable transition obligation whose revenues are, in accordance with the policy, used to reduce deforestation in the value chain. BNP Paribas was the bookrunner (bookkeeper) for this program. Moreover, as a signatory to the Cerrado Manifesto manifesto, BNP Paribas Asset Management supports the protection of the Brazilian savannah of the Cerrado and its exceptional ecosystem.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u53	Minister, intentions and discussions are of course good, but the results are not yet available today. I assume that you agree that we, as a government, and a company like BNP Paribas, have a social and ethical responsibility. There is hard evidence that companies in which BNP Paribas invests today are guilty of unethical behavior. BNP Paribas has a say in these companies as shareholder and financier. As a shareholder, with a seat on the board of directors, we have an important vote at BNP Paribas. I would therefore urge you, Minister, to use this lever, which we have in our own hands, and to confront the bank with the evidence and to encourage it to step up its efforts.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u54	Indeed, Minister, the situation is, it seems to me, clearly exposed by these NGOs that have shown how responsible BNP Paribas is for the destruction of the Amazon forest. I hear what you're saying, but the facts are there! As far as Belgium is concerned and as a political leader of Belgium's participation in BNP Paribas, it seems to me that it is necessary to change the role of these directors. They must cease to be independent directors. Moreover, an independent director, when it comes to private shareholders, is a director who is not a shareholder of the company and whom the company takes on its board of directors as its board of directors. But in this case, we have directors who are shareholders (those who represent Belgium) and there is therefore no reason for them to be independent. They must defend the interests of the shareholder and when Belgium is a shareholder, they must in particular defend the international conventions that Belgium has signed, the principles of law and the social principles that govern Belgium. These directors, if they have a role to play, it seems to me to be the guardians of the bank's ethics, the guardians of a responsible policy on sustainable development and compliance with international conventions signed by Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u55	Minister, according to a recent study jointly produced by the IMF and the University of Copenhagen, almost 40% of foreign direct investment (FDI) by multinational enterprises is carried out with a view to tax evasion – we are still on the same subject. In other words, these FDI do not correspond to any real economic or commercial activity and are undertaken, via "letterbox" or "phantom" companies, with the sole aim of avoiding fair taxation. The scourge of tax evasion is not a novelty and represents an annual loss of EUR 1 000 billion in Europe and just over EUR 30 billion in Belgium. The study notes the worrying increase in FDI. However, many initiatives are trying to meet the challenge of combating tax evasion, whether at European or global level. For example, the EU-wide Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base (CCCTB) represents an ambitious project that could be a formidable weapon to combat this phenomenon. However, this instrument is difficult to adopt because it does not agree with the Council of the European Union. Similarly, solutions with a global dimension are being sought, in particular through the OECD BEPS project or through various UN initiatives. Like what is happening in the European institutions, it is also difficult to get the Member States to agree. In view of the concerns raised by tax evasion, both in terms of tax and social justice, I would like to ask you, Minister, the following questions. What is Belgium's position on the possible adoption by the European Union of a common consolidated corporate tax base? More generally, do you not think that Belgium should take a leading role at European and international level, adopting concrete and effective measures to combat tax evasion, and encouraging the international community to take action in this regard? In this respect, you know that the European Commission is concerned about the Belgian notional interests and the excess profit rules – on which my colleague will question you. Finally, does your administration have figures relating to FDI mortgages made by Belgian companies for the sole purpose of escaping tax?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u56	Mr Bayet, with regard to the possible adoption by the European Union of a common consolidated corporate tax base, it was decided to operate in two stages. First, an agreement is being sought on a common basis, before addressing the consolidation aspects. Negotiations on the technical aspects of this CCCTB will soon resume under the Finnish Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Given the scale and level of ambition of this project and the diversity of approaches within the Member States, negotiations are very complex. Belgium, however, takes part in it in an open and constructive manner. From a more general point of view, the international community does not remain passive in dealing with the problem of tax evasion. The recommendations drawn up by the OECD under the BEPS project have, for the most part, been adopted at European level in the form of directives, which in turn have been transposed into Belgian tax law. Moreover, our country was one of the first Member States to transpose them. The work of the OECD is continuing and now extends far beyond its members, since an inclusive framework has been defined, bringing together more than 130 states – including, of course, Belgium. For the time being, they are trying to reach a consensus on the taxation of the income of the digital economy, but also on the rules referred to in the terms of the global anti-base proposed erosion, aimed at countering the transfer of the taxable base to areas that are not taxed. The retention of these rules is planned for 2020, which, in view of the work to be done by the OECD and the experts of the States Parties to the inclusive framework, is very ambitious. Once these rules have been finalized, they will then be incorporated into the tax laws of these states. Finally, with regard to the figures on foreign direct investment made by Belgian companies in order to escape tax, the FPS Finances is unfortunately not in a position to answer this question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u57	Minister, thank you for your answer. I am pleased to know that Belgium will have an open and constructive position in relation to the CCCTB because, during my last five years as a Member of the European Parliament, I have not seen Belgium once support this important project. Since then, the budget of this minority government has been in excessive deficit. So we'll have to find the money and I can't help but rejoice if you're going to pick it up in the pocket of those who cheat. As far as FDI is concerned, I can understand that your administration may not have the information. However, that is a bit of a shame. Perhaps it should be given a little more means because, as with the CumEx Files, I do not want to return, during this term, to a whole series of tax evasion techniques that actually exist and for which Belgium would not have put in place methodologies or particular attention to avoid them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u58	Mr Minister, VAT carousels are particularly problematic fraud mechanisms for the finances of European states, including Belgium. Carousel fraud is referred to as carousel fraud when an undertaking subject to a State A makes an intra-Community delivery to an undertaking established in a State B. In this type of transaction, the undertaking making the delivery is exempt from VAT but retains the right to recover it from the Treasury. In State B, the company receiving the delivery will resell the goods received by charging VAT to its customers, while not returning it to the tax administration. This company is called the missing trader, the defaulting operator. The carousel can then continue with other companies in other Member States, sometimes even returning to the company of State A. The damage suffered by Belgium due to VAT carousels amounted to almost €45 million in 2018, compared to €17 million in 2017. More than twice the amount was lost compared to 2017! In addition, where carousel fraud involved fewer than ten products in the 1990s, some estimates speak of a hundred goods today. Mr Minister, it is necessary to combat this type of fraud, both for budgetary and fiscal reasons. Do you confirm these figures? If yes, do you have more information on the reasons for the increase in the amount of fraud between 2017 and 2018? What measures are being taken by the competent authorities, in particular the ISI, to combat carousel fraud? Since VAT is a harmonised tax at European level, what about cooperation between the competent authorities of Belgium and those of the other Member States, in particular through the various European bodies and programmes (Eurofisc, Europol, Eurojust, etc.)), to combat VAT carousels?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u59	Member of the European Parliament, I confirm the figures you mention. This is a result of our quarterly VAT fraud assessment barometer that we have been conducting since 2001. As a reminder, in 2001 the annual injury to Belgium was EUR 1.1 billion. According to estimates by the European Commission, fraud injury missing trader intra-community (MTIC) would amount to EUR 50 billion each year for the European Union. Despite the increase in injury for 2018 (from EUR 17 million to EUR 45 million), the evolution of the figures between 2001 and 2018 remains remarkable. Our services pay particular attention to the evolution of the phenomenon. Following its extensive expertise, the ISI has taken over the management of the Transactional Network Analysis (TNA) within the Eurofisc network for the early detection of fraud, a network in which all Member States participate. Since the beginning of this year, an amendment to the Regulation on administrative cooperation in the field of VAT has provided access to new data for Eurofisc liaison officers, increased investigative possibilities and the possibility of sending detailed questions to OLAF and Europol.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u60	Minister, thank you for your answers. I regret that you confirm these figures. It would be a good thing to give our administration more resources to avoid the increase in this fraud. I hope 2019 will be better than 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u61	Madam President, thank you for your flexibility in asking questions. My question concerns bank and savings accounts, an important issue. Mr Minister, we have heard the recent statements by you and Minister Beke this summer, when we were discussing the guaranteed minimum interest rate of 0.11%, where you both stated that you want to maintain that threshold. It is a debate that lives not only with us, but also in many other European countries and in our neighbouring countries because the lax monetary policy puts pressure on the profitability of a number of banks, at least according to their claims. This is also the case for pension institutions. They are both looking for ways of maintaining this profitability so that the financing of the real economy can remain effective. In this connection, I would like to ask you the following questions. The guaranteed interest rate of 0.11 % is laid down in a royal decree. We are currently in a special period. There is no government with full powers, but there is a government in current affairs. I would like to ask you the clear question whether you agree with us that the principle of 0.11% laid down in a royal decree is a particularly important principle, which should not be changed by a government in current cases. I assume I know your answer, given your statement this summer that there can be no revision for you, but I would like to see it explicitly confirmed here that the royal decree will not be amended by a government in current cases. My second, more technical question concerns the obligation for banks to offer regulated savings deposits. Is that an obligation? Thirdly, we had a debate yesterday on the order of business. One of the themes addressed in the media is that financial institutions, such as banks and pension institutions, become very communicative and indicate that their profitability is under pressure. It would be interesting to hear your assessment of that. We agreed yesterday that there would be a hearing of experts on this subject, but our first expert is, of course, the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u62	Thank you. I'll take that as a compliment. The remuneration rules are set out in Article 2 of the Royal Decree and the WIB 92. The interest must always consist of a basic interest rate and a loyalty premium. The statutory minimum interest rate on the regulated savings book is 0.11 %, which is the sum of 0.01 % base interest and 0.10 % loyalty premium. There are no plans to change the current minimum interest rate of 0.11 % in the future. As for your second question, banks are not legally obliged to offer regulated savings deposits. Banks are, in principle, free to restrict the supply of savings and investment products, also on the basis of changing market conditions. For example, they may choose to offer only non-regulated or even non-saving accounts, but in addition to the legal considerations, there is also an economic and financial reality in which financial institutions, in this case banks, operate and have to meet key customer expectations and needs. Banks can offer a variety of savings products that meet the needs of their customers, with or without tax advantages. Regulated savings deposits remain an essential saving instrument for the large majority of the Belgian population. After all, they offer not only security and liquidity, but also fiscally advantageous treatment, an important asset for that instrument. Therefore, we can reasonably assume that banks will continue to offer savings products, including regulated savings deposits. They meet the wishes and needs of their clients. Finally, it should also be noted that these savings deposits constitute a stable source of finance for banks and contribute to the stability of the financial sector. Indeed, there are increasing signs that, as the low interest rate environment continues, the profitability of the financial institutions is increasingly under pressure, but that observation does not apply specifically to the Belgian banks. On the contrary, as reported by the National Bank and the European Central Bank, the profitability of Belgian banks remains relatively stable compared to similar financial institutions in the euro area. This indicates that the Belgian minimum interest rate of 0.11 % on savings deposits is not necessarily the determining factor that determines the pressure on profitability. Other factors, such as digitalisation, also have a heavy impact. However, it is important to bear in mind the impact of monetary policy on the profitability of banks. The negative interest rates at which Belgian banks, like banks in other countries with excess cash reserves, hold their reserves with the central bank, are de facto a loss to those banks. This loss grows as the ECB expands or strengthens its accommodating policy and further reduces its deposit rates. In this sense, the ECB's decision of 12 September to introduce a so-called tiering of the ECB deposit rates for cash reserves is certainly a step in the right direction. I have seen that you are still asking questions about the ECB's decision, so that is what we will be talking about in the next question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u63	Minister, it is good to hear that there are no plans to adjust minimum interest rates. You say that there are no plans for this today, but we will follow the case well, so that these plans will not appear suddenly in the future. It is correct that the situation is not specific to Belgian banks, but that is not reassuring. On the contrary, we should be even more concerned that the instability in the financial sector is perceptible throughout Europe. I would like to say that this situation is particularly true in those countries where there are many savings, but that is not right, because the problems in Italy may be the biggest of them all. That is what we should be concerned about, and we will certainly be discussing it. It is very good that you repeat here what you have said in the media over the last few days, that the lax monetary policy of the European Central Bank also has important side effects and that it is good that we can have a debate on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u64	I would like to add something, Mr Loones, because you quoted me wrong. I said that there are no plans to change the current minimum interest rate in the future. You make it clear that these plans do not exist today, but I did not say that. I'd like to make that right.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u65	It's purely linguistic, but whether the word 'today' is said or not, it's there. When one says that there are no plans to do anything, one does not say that there will be no plans in the future. That is a discussion that we will continue in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u66	Madam President, Minister, last Monday we had a discussion on the Brexit. However, this committee would like to hear a number of experts on the subject. In fact, we would like to hear you, Minister, as well as the administrator-general of customs, your highest official in that area, because the Brexit should be of concern to us all. When my group was still part of the government, for example, the recruitment of additional customs officers was a priority. The date of 31 October is approaching and the British Government is apparently on a path of effectively leaving the European Union. The question is what needs to be done. The media read that there are talks going on between Ireland and the European Commission. I am pleased that the European Commission intends to adopt a very pragmatic attitude in this regard. If the United Kingdom left the European Union effectively on 1 November, Ireland would, if it did not immediately comply with all customs formalities, be in default by the European Commission but would also receive assistance at the same time. The European Commission would therefore not immediately adopt a logic of sanctioning. This initiative by the European Commission would thus lead to a kind of transition phase or a tolerance phase. We know that in addition to Ireland, Belgium, and in particular Flanders, the top three of the countries affected by the Brexit are among them. What can be of use to the Irish would also be useful to us. Hence a number of questions. First of all, has there been any consultation between the Belgian authorities, the government and the administration, and the European Commission, on the import of third country rules with the United Kingdom, in preparation for a possible no-dealbrexit? Secondly, if tolerance can be shown for Ireland, is it possible to do so in relation to other countries, particularly our country? Has there been any contact with the European Commission on this? If not, are there any plans for that? Do you believe that the European Commission will be prepared to adopt the same approach for our economy? Thirdly, we adopted a Brexit Act here on 3 April 2019. It states quite clearly that authorised economic operators acting in good faith shall be exempt from penalties in so far as they correct the irregularities. The question is whether what applies to European Member States should also apply to all economic operators, as recommended by the Council of State? It would be interesting to hear your views on this technical issue. My fourth and most important question, I think, is the following. Will you instruct your customs administration to adopt a pragmatic attitude in the case of a no-dealbrexit, so that we are not the most punitive little boy in the classroom, especially when our neighbouring countries adopt a pragmatic attitude? My final question, about the link with customs, which appears in various parliaments certainly in Northern and Western Europe, is whether specific attention is paid to the import and export of medicines and medical devices. In the United Kingdom, a report was issued by the Chief Medical Officer, which shows that this might be difficult. However, measures would have been taken. It would be good to know whether this is also the case on our part, so that our citizens too, to the extent that Belgium is dependent on British medicines, are assured of their supply.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u67	Madam President, Minister, the Brexit has been postponed several times. Currently 31 October 2019 is the ultimate exit date. I have some questions. Firstly, do you share the view that the possibility of a hard Brexit is unabated and that the government and, of course, customs must prepare themselves for it? Secondly, the FPS Finance has previously indicated to train 386 additional men, to anticipate a no-dealbrexit. Can that figure be confirmed or will more or less persons be needed by 31 October 2019? Thirdly, how many new customs officers have already been recruited effectively at the moment? How many customs officers will be effective on 31 October 2019? Fourthly, at the beginning of 2019, the General Administration of Customs and Excise wrote 20,000 Belgian companies, an estimated five thousand of which really have to take into account the impact of the Brexit. In the end, how many companies dealt with the offer of customs? Fifth, after the closure in May 2019 of the export office in Ostend and by the end of the year of the offices of Menen-LAR and Aalst, two auxiliary offices will be left in West and East Flanders, namely in Zeebrugge and Ghent. Is it being considered to keep the offices in Menen-LAR and Aalst longer open as part of the increased Brexit customs formalities? Sixthly, companies can apply for a loading and unloading permit in order to obtain a smoother passage at the border. How many companies were already recognised as a loading and unloading site? Seventhly, was the government mapped out what shortages of critical devices could arise as a result of a no-dealbrexit? In that connection, I am thinking of medicines and other medical devices. Were any preparations made for granting exemptions for the import of these critical devices, so that such exemptions can be granted as soon as possible, if necessary? Finally, what major problems have emerged during the last few weeks under your authority in the Brexit preparations? How are solutions sought?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u68	Madam President, in the scenario of a no-dealbrexit, the General Administration of Customs and Excise should consider the United Kingdom as a third country from 1 November 2019. Legislation on this principle has not been part of discussions between the European Commission and the General Administration of Customs and Excise. The European Commission always uses the principle of level playing field in its decision-making. European customs legislation is laid down in the Customs Code of the European Union and in its implementation claims, with the European Commission always emphasising that these should be applied by the EU 27, including in the case of a no-dealbrexit. The General Administration of Customs and Excise has received no communication about any tolerance period. The General Administration of Customs and Excise shall respect the two-month period during which fines in trade with the United Kingdom could be suspended. Of course, any tax obligations are excluded. The fees must therefore be paid, the fines can be suspended. A Brexit committee within the General Administration of Customs and Excise will judge whether the fine is related to the Brexit. This is provided for by all economic operators. The general principle of good faith applies to all trade but is effectively limited to authorised economic operators. This measure is also limited in time, in particular one year after its entry into force. After this period, the measure will be evaluated. The General Administration of Customs and Excise will, as far as possible, always adopt a pragmatic attitude in the period following a no-dealbrexit. I specifically spoke to the management about this in order to be as pragmatic as possible with regard to people who are in good faith. As far as your fifth question on medicines and medical devices is concerned, the sectors have not given us any signals that there is a danger to the Belgian market. In April, consultations on medicines and medical devices were held with the competent authorities and authorities on market surveillance. The General Administration of Customs and Excise will follow the instructions of these authorities, on the understanding that the Administration is solely responsible for carrying out customs controls at the border. The other supervisory authorities are required to act at the border within their area of competence....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In order to test its operational preparedness, the Administration will organise exercises on brexit simulation at the start of October in Zeebrugge and at the Brussels-South station. Mr Vermeersch, as with the previous Brexit deadlines, my customs administration will continue to prepare for a no-dealbrexit on 31 October 2019. The figure of 386 additional men can be confirmed. The impact analysis is still valid. On 1 September 276 customs officers were effectively employed and employable and by 31 October there will be 305, as expected. That is a lot better than expected, because the conditions for recruiting are absolutely very difficult. We are not the only ones looking for people who have to deal with the Brexit situation, because all transporters and freight forwarders are also recruiting the same people. I would therefore like to congratulate my administration on the fact that we are able to recruit 305 out of 386 men. That does not mean, therefore, that we will not go to 386 men, because we are still working on that. There are 20,000 Belgian companies registered. After registration, 7,000 companies were contacted by telephone. So far, 4.937 companies out of 20 000 have responded positively to the call for an TAIL registration. It is not envisaged to keep the offices of Menen-LAR and Aalst longer open as part of the increased Brexit customs formalities. Those offices do not actually do that, but for the vast majority of their work are engaged in the import of vehicles and the import documents are now fully digitised, which means that these offices have very few activities. The licences for loading and unloading facilities offer business opportunities to make the logistics chain as smooth as possible and to indicate the goods for export in the establishment of the operators themselves and no longer at the customs export office. As part of the brexitop call for this, 50 such permits have so far been issued by customs. In addition, the capacity of customs at border posts has been strengthened to cope with the increase in declarations and customs controls. The identification of security of supply does not fall within the competence of my department. In April 2019 the competent market surveillance authorities consulted on medicines and medical devices. Customs shall follow the instructions of the border surveillance authorities, provided that the customs authorities are solely responsible for carrying out customs checks at the border. As stated in the answer to the previous question, the FAGG, the BFSA and the FPS Health Department carry out border checks within their area of competence. The customs administration has not identified any new problems in recent weeks. Operational preparation will be further developed together with the partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u69	Minister, it is good to hear that in early October there will be simulation exercises and that you will be looking at, among other things, Zeebrugge, where there has been considerable use of these in recent years. I would also urge that Antwerp should not be forgotten as an important port, but that will certainly not happen, even if, given the amount that passes there, customs cooperation is going smoothly; we know that from the past. Secondly, it is also good to hear that you have had a conversation with your customs services and that you have asked them to be as pragmatic as possible. I would like to add once again that we really need to look carefully at what is happening in neighbouring countries. A year or two ago, together with Mr De Wever, we went to Mr David Davis because we had already heard echoes at the time that the European Union wanted the 27 Member States to negotiate together and that there should not be a split. However, there were rumors that the Netherlands was developing an ICT platform with the UK. I cannot confirm or deny whether such a platform exists, but if one finds that neighbouring countries are trying to talk to each other and if one knows that the port of Rotterdam is an important competitor of the port of Antwerp, then one must do everything in its power to ensure that one and one does not become two. In this context, I am very pleased to hear that you are advocating maximum pragmatism.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u70	Minister, the Brexit has been postponed several times. You have always stated, and you confirm, that 386 people are needed. On September 1st there were only 276. As a former entrepreneur and also an exporter to the United Kingdom, I am concerned if you quote those figures. Let us also look at the neighbouring countries, as Mr Loones said. We can take an example from the neighbouring countries. I have the impression that there is much better organisation and preparation for the Brexit. I am indeed concerned, certainly because a number of delays have already been granted and we have therefore had many opportunities to rectify the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u71	The minister must leave us. I suggest that you defer the remaining questions. For Members who wish to do so, the answers are at their disposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u72	Madam Chair, I have a question about the September 15 deadline. When can I put it down?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u73	I will try to organize an oral question-and-answer session as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic010x.u74	Madam President, I wish to turn my questions No 55000476C, No 55000477C and No 55000478C into written questions.
