ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u1	Colleagues, Minister Ducrame and Deputy Director Diricks of the Federal Food Chain Safety Agency (FCSA) provided an explanation of the issue. If the members of the committee agree, then we will move on to the questions, even if we adapt them according to the presentation. No objection? [[No]] I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the European Parliament, consumer health protection is and remains a priority for the BFSA and for the relevant authorities at all levels of government. I will explain as much as possible the measures taken by the BFSA to protect the health of the Belgian consumer as a result of the presence of the listeria bacteria in a Dutch company. However, I would draw the attention of the committee members to the fact that a number of elements fall within the competence of the Minister for Health. To be very clear, I am thinking, first of all, of the collection of data on listeriosis to know its impact on the health of the population and to monitor its evolution over time. Secondly, the monitoring of infectious diseases in our country. Thirdly, any advice from the Supreme Health Council. In addition, I repeat that the Communities are competent to report cases of listeriosis on their territory. I shall come back to that when I talk about the recommendations. I will now give you an outline of the facts. I am in constant contact with the BFSA about these important issues and I believe that the BFSA is perfectly fulfilling its mission and role in this regard. I would like to stress this, because yesterday, during the plenary session of the Chamber, I was absolutely surprised at the statements made by a Member of Parliament that the fipronil crisis and the fraud committed by the company Veviba was similar to this problem. Again, the source of this listeria contamination comes from the Netherlands, not Belgium. Let me go back to the facts. The BFSA and I were informed on 4 October about the recall, by ALDI, of meat-based products. On 3 October at 21.33 p.m., the company Ter Beke sent an e-mail to the local control units of Antwerp to identify the problem. The products in question came from the Netherlands and were manufactured by a Dutch company where the listeria bacteria was decidated. The AFSCA immediately communicated in full transparency on Friday, October 4 and Sunday, October 6, in order to provide advice to consumers. In her communication, which was intended for publication on her website but also for the media as a whole, she highlighted the precautions to be taken by consumers. Since this dramatic case has been reported in the Netherlands, we are obviously on the brink and remain vigilant, but it must be recognised that listeria is a phenomenon that is nothing new. Of the 15,000 tests conducted annually by AFSCA for microbiological pathogens, no less than 9,000 tests are for listeria, given the high danger of this pathogen. The AFSCA has been carrying out these checks for a long time, as the presence of listeria in Belgium is not new. There were 83 cases of listeria in 2014, 78 in 2015, 104 in 2016, 74 in 2017 and 2018. As of 1 September this year, there were 48 cases. As a result, AFSCA appropriately communicated, in a transparent manner, and recommended that fresh foods be kept in the refrigerator, that the storage dates indicated on the packaging be respected, that the food be properly cooked, etc. Mr Diricks will return to these essential aspects. AFSCA knows that this commitment to transparency is fundamental. It has made a very proactive and justified communication to the consumer. Listeria is the cause of listeriosis, a disease that may be fatal in some cases. I am not a Minister of Health, but since the commission has not been careful to request the presence of the Minister of Health, I would like to share with you various elements of this order. It was essential, as was done, to raise awareness among at-risk groups, "YOPI", i.e. children (Young), the elderly (Old), pregnant women (Pregnant) and immunocompromised persons (Immunodedeficit). At the same time, as soon as AFSCA learned, via Aldi, of the contamination of this Dutch company, it asked its counterpart from the Netherlands, NVWA – Mr Herman Diricks will return to this aspect – to provide it as soon as possible with all the additional information that could ensure the protection of the health of the Belgian consumer. I relayed this request in an official letter to the Dutch Minister of Health, as I indicated yesterday in response to a question addressed to me in plenary. Mrs Dierick, I agree with you on what you said about the European information issue. I also wrote to the Director of the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) several days ago asking him if a thorough analysis could not be carried out in Europe. Indeed, other outbreaks of listeria have been detected in recent months, in Spain, Hungary or Germany. I invited EFSA to provide us with recommendations to strengthen consumer protection, if necessary. This Sunday, following new information from the Netherlands, a new reminder was organised by the company Albert Heijn. Products sold by wholesalers Sligro and HANOS were also withdrawn as a precautionary measure. As the AFSCA will indicate to you in a more technical way, it continues to monitor the situation very closely. Should the Netherlands have contacted us before? That is a good question, but it is not for me to investigate any dysfunctions with the Dutch authorities. However, a number of elements need to be clarified quickly. In any case, I am surprised that the BFSA has called on the European RASFF system to obtain information from the Dutch authorities. That's not the NVWA. The RASFF has therefore been put into effect. At the end of July 2019, the NVWA of RIVM, the Dutch counterpart of Sciensano, would have received the first signals from no less than 18 cases of listeria that could possibly be linked to the company Offerman. Following that information, the NVWA would have visited the site again to take a certain number of samples. On 13 August 2019, two positive cases for listeria emerged from the analysis, on the eleven samples analysed. The company would have taken further measures to improve hygiene. On 2 October 2019, the NVWA received confirmation that the listeria strain found at the company Offerman could be linked to cases of people who had contracted listeriosis and were known to RIVM. It therefore seems to me that, as of that date, the NVWA could or should have, as a precaution, informed the other European agencies via the RASFF (Rapid Alert System for Food and Feed). On 3 October, NVWA contacted the operator and imposed measures such as the immediate closure of the establishment. However, it is only on the evening of 4 October that the NVWA carries out its first RASFF, which targets products distributed to ALDI, which, as early as Friday morning, recalled the products concerned. I still asked Mr. Diricks to give you a topo about the difficulty of operating traceability. It's not easy. Nor do I want to judge transmission at the level of our Dutch neighbours. It will be up to the Dutch political authorities to establish possible responsibilities in the management of this case. For our part, it seems to me that we can draw a number of lessons on what has worked well but also on things that could be further improved, mainly at European level, in order to further strengthen consumer health protection. Anyway, AFSCA did its job. A major element depending on our responsibility is whether the situation is under control in Belgium. The issue of food safety – I have become fully aware of this in recent years – is a fundamental public health issue. It's not a political game. I would like to point out that the AFSCA and all the people working on it are doing their utmost to protect the consumer from a risk such as the one we are dealing with today. Raw milk, raw milk cheeses, raw foods, smoked fish are examples of foods that pose an increased risk of the bacterium being present, as they may be insufficiently heated during production. I leave it to the technicians to go into more detail and answer your questions more precisely, ladies and gentlemen. The collection of data on listeriosis falls within the remit of my colleague Maggie De Block. I cannot substitute for it, but I can, however, quote from the figures collected in recent years in order to inform you fully. These figures are important: 83 cases in 2014; 78 in 2015; 104 in 2016; 74 in 2017 and Idem in 2018 and 48 cases on 1 September 2019. However, these figures remain stable, which is just as important. I have told you that of the 15 000 samples taken annually by AFSCA in the field of microbiological pathogens, 9 000 are directly related to the listeria. The compliance rate was 92.2% in 2018. It is important to stress this and to be informed so that we can judge the good food safety we can demonstrate through these tests. The AFSCA carries out its checks as part of its annual programme with all operators in the food chain. This programme shall be based on a scientific risk assessment, which shall be carried out in close cooperation with the independent scientific committee set up at the Agency. As a reminder, inspections are carried out on a mandatory basis. However, we can count on another type of control, that of self-control, which, as you know, is extremely important. Often the alert is given by self-control. The AFSCA builds on this aspect. When operators are impacted, they prepare press releases in collaboration with the AFSCA, which distributes them via its channels alongside the press releases that the Agency also broadcasts. The AFSCA also monitors the progress of the correct recalls. Are Belgians affected by this strain of listeria? The listeria is not uniform; different strains exist. Surveillance of infectious diseases, including listeriosis, is the responsibility of my colleague Mrs De Block. This is probably the reason why, during the last parliamentary term, when we had to inform Parliament, we were both often present. Indeed, with regard to food security, it is the Minister of Agriculture who manages, as in most European countries. We are dealing with the issue of food security at the European Agriculture Council. But a number of elements are related and shared with Ms De Block, since she is Minister of Public Health, such as, for example, the tutelage on Sciensano. I don't want you to leave here and tell you that you didn't get all the information you needed. You are entitled to all the information, but as one of the competent ministers is not present, I will still give you information that I have, even if it is not within my direct competence. Sciensano was contacted as a national reference laboratory by the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control in August 2019. The request came from the Dutch RIVM, which sought to know whether a source of listeria detected in the Netherlands was also located in other Member States of the European Union, not to mention the framework within which its request was made. There was absolutely no mention that this strain had resulted in the death of several people. It's not right. The transmission of information from one country to another raises real questions here. The information must be transmitted in its entirety and put into context. Indeed, Mrs Dierick, we will necessarily have to improve things in the exchange of information at European level. It is not possible, in an open market, to tolerate such slowness. Sciensano was able to identify two cases of people affected by listeriosis in Belgium in 2018. In both cases, the strain was the same as the strain identified by RIVM. It should of course be pointed out that neither AFSCA nor Sciensano knew that there was any suspicion on an operator exporting products to Belgium. I come to my conclusion before giving the floor to Herman Diricks. This is a Dutch problem, but everything is connected in an open market – and this is also the case in the food sector. We have therefore put pressure on our Dutch counterparts to improve the transmission of information. You know that a European Agriculture Council will be held in Luxembourg at the beginning of next week. I have included an item on the agenda. To do this, I have contacted the Commission – in the person of Commissioner Andriukaitis – as well as the Permanent Representations of the Netherlands and Germany. The aim is to give the Netherlands all the necessary recommendations. This is not the first time in a food security issue that we have experienced problems with the transmission of information from that country to our own. The issue must also be resolved at European level. I expect the Commission to assume its responsibilities in this matter. I wrote to Sciensano to systematically transmit this type of information and study to AFSCA, even if this body does not know the context. To that end, I asked for a protocol to be developed. I would also like to draw your attention to an important point. As I said at the beginning of my speech, and as you pointed out yesterday in plenary, Mrs Dierick – without focusing on your speech in which you referred to the alert threshold – the Communities determine when a case of listeria should be communicated to Sciensano. While on the French-speaking side, each case must be reported to the reference laboratory, the same is not true in the north of the country, as the report is only expected from two cases of listeriosis. Of course, of course, Flanders is entirely autonomous on these issues. But I cannot help but note this difference: communicating the first case directly, without waiting for two, I think it is more effective. We should go in that direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u3	Mr President, I will deal with a number of questions, which we have grouped into chapters, because some overlapping questions have been asked. Much has already been said about listeria and its consequences. It is a disease-causing bacterium that is of importance to realize this naturally So there is always a possibility that raw materials can be contaminated. Another aspect of listeria, which we certainly must not lose sight of, is that contamination with listeria can happen not only through food, but also through other ways. An additional aspect is that the symptoms of listeriosis resemble flu. However, the disease mainly affects people with weakened immunity, the elderly and pregnant women. The infection can also lead to a miscarriage and, in severe cases, to the death of the patient. We see that there is an evolution. In the past, there was quite a lot of criticism of the agency, because according to the people, it took strict measures at the time when listeria was found. Meanwhile, everyone is convinced that listeria should not be underestimated. Arguments that some listeria cases do not matter, arguments we were told are out of the question. Listeria infections are most commonly found in raw milk, raw milk cheeses, raw greetings and smoked fish. Those foods present a high risk for the presence of the bacteria, as they are not heated or not sufficiently heated during production. In the case of foods heated or pasteurised during production, heating is effective enough to kill the bacteria, but it should be taken into account that the bacteria is well able to survive in the production environment of food. The bacteria can also be found in meat products and ready-made dishes due to a post-contamination from the environment. For example, the bacteria may be present on the cutting machines. The application of good hygiene practices by farms is the only way to avoid listeria contamination as far as possible. Products without heat treatment or products where post-contamination is possible should be monitored in particular. One aspect that also complicates the study of listeria contamination is the fact that the period during which listeria is detected in the patient and the initial infection can be very high. One speaks from six weeks to ninety days. Then it is very difficult to establish the link between the patient's disease and the contamination of a food. I think that the Minister's statement has already shown that we need to look at things at European level. If we look at the European level, 2.480 human cases of listeriosis were reported in 2017. Listeria monocytogenes is therefore in fifth place of the most common zoonoses. First of all, campylobacteriosis has more than 246.000 cases in 2017. Among the most common zoonoses, listeria monocytogenes is the bacteria that causes most diseases with a fatal outcome: one in nine cases. In 40% of listeriosis cases a hospitalisation was required. It's very difficult to connect. In only 39 of the 2.480 cases, the disease could be linked to food. A single European market also requires a European approach. What rules do we apply? One of the most important legal obligations for food businesses is permanent risk management. They shall be deemed to assume their responsibility at all stages of the production process. Monitoring the food chain by means of controls is the main task of the BFSA. European regulations provide for standards for listeria monocytogenes in ready-made foods. These are foods that are no longer heated or only moderately heated for consumption by consumers. If a food business can demonstrate that there is no growth of listeria beyond a limit of 100 colony-forming units per gram of food during a shelf life of the food, the limit may be used. If this is not the case, the control must show the absence of bacteria in 25 grams. That standard also applies to ready-made infant formulae and to food in medical use. The standards apply throughout the European Union. European regulations require every company active in the food chain to develop a system of self-control based on risks and critical points in the production process. It is clear that producers themselves have to carry out checks on their products on the basis of analyses. A company can take several measures. First of all, as I said, it can respect good hygiene practices. Secondly, it can implement monitoring as part of its HACCP system (Analysis of Hazards and Critical Control Points). In addition, there is a European regulation on the microbiological criteria to be met. The fight against listeria in the food sector is a challenge for two reasons. Firstly, the bacteria can increase at lower temperatures, which means that proper refrigerated storage of ready-to-eat food is of utmost importance, as is respect for its shelf-life. The date "to be used up to" on a food is often based on the potential growth of listeria on that product. Secondly, food businesses must take into account that the listeria bacteria can attach to each other in a thin film. Such a biofilm is very difficult to remove and often occurs in pipes and surfaces. Extensive cleaning and disinfection of the surfaces is necessary to remove the biofilms. Listeria is therefore certainly not unknown in the food companies and affects both large manufacturers and smaller producers. It has already been mentioned here, several deaths have already occurred in Europe as a result of a listeria contamination: for example, with frozen vegetables from a Hungarian factory. In Spain there were more than 200 cases, also with a number of deaths. This proves that if the BFSA acts as a result of the presence of listeria, its measure is absolutely necessary and proportionate. The bacterium is dangerous in any product it occurs in. Even if European regulation is important, a well-functioning auto-control system is essential for both large and small businesses. Monitoring the food chain by means of controls is the main task of the BFSA. The control programme shall be based on a scientifically sound evaluation and shall be translated by the Agency into concrete sampling and inspection plans based on objective and statistically sound parameters. The same applies, of course, to listeria. The Minister has already referred to the important place that microbial contaminants occupy in our control programme. To complete the figures he quoted, I can tell you that in 2014 7,803 analyses were carried out, in 2015 9.466, in 2016 9,738, in 2017 9.040, and in 2018 9.155. The conformity figure was always about the figure the Minister took in his mouth, 99.12 %. In 2019 we have carried out 6.370 analyses, with 99.4 % compliance. That is in line with previous years. Anyway, we are trying to get the best picture on the food chain. This means that our sampling programme is an extensive sample at random, to get as clear a picture as possible and to maximize the chance of detection. At the agency we have both the sampling programme and the inspection programme. The checklists used by our inspectors and inspectors during the inspections include elements relating to microbiology and are also pulsed into, inter alia, measures relating to the cold chain and possible cross contamination and general hygiene measures. This means that if we check at a company, one of the standard questions is how to deal with microbiology in the company and what tests are being carried out in the company for microbiological parameters. What do we do if we discover a food toxic infection? In the investigation of the cause of food toxic infections, the BFSA works closely with Sciensano and the Communities. The BFSA will be responsible for investigating potentially affected foods, while the regional agencies will be responsible for investigating the disease. The binder is Sciensano, which receives the information from the Communities and also from the Agency. Together one tries to determine the causes of contamination. This applies not only to listeria, but also to other microbial contaminants. Sciensano, of course, conducts investigations, both on the human samples and on the samples made available by the Agency. To ensure that there is a link between the food and the outbreak, Belgium uses with Sciensano the whole genome sequencing method, which was also used by Dutch colleagues. With this technique of analysis, which is increasingly used, one can check whether the DNA of the bacterium in the diet corresponds to the DNA of the bacterium in the patient. I'll give you a very recent example. The outbreak of salmonella in a Bruges school could be found by making the genetic link between salmonella found in the food, in this case the tartar, and salmonella found in the sick pupils. How does the BFSA work in practice in case of identified problems for consumers or customers? Firstly, every company in the food chain that has reason to believe that a product can be harmful to human, plant and animal health must do three things. Firstly, the company must take immediate measures to eliminate hazards. This can be done by blocking, withdrawing or recalling products. Secondly, the company must immediately inform the agency. One of the key elements for successfully solving problems is to inform the Agency as soon as possible. This applies not only to public authorities from other Member States, but also to operators. Thirdly, the company must inform its customers and, if necessary, the consumer. What measures we take depends on the type of product where it is in the food chain when it is found that something is wrong with it. Raw materials must be blocked if they are dangerous. The supplier must be notified and the BFSA must be notified so that everyone who has received these raw materials can also take action. When the danger is in processed products, the manufacturer must block them, inform the BFSA again and anyone who has received the products. The producer must withdraw the product from the market, inform all customers that it can no longer be sold, and if it has already reached the consumer, he must recall the product. Usually that happens through a press release. The press release will always be reviewed together with the agency. There are a number of exceptions, for example in the case of products sold over the Internet for which no Belgian responsible person can be identified, and then the BFSA will take the notification to the consumer, or if the producer refuses to recall his products for some reason. The Agency shall take three important measures. Firstly, to ensure that products are blocked which are infected or may be contaminated. Secondly, withdraw all products which are not intended directly for the consumer. Thirdly, a recall of all products that go to the consumer. Not only does the BFSA inform about the calls, the agency will always provide more general information to inform the consumer. If non-compliant listeria results are found during BFSA checks or during the auto-checking of the company and the product is already in the distribution sector, the BFSA will take measures without delay. Consumer protection is the Agency's main mission and the reason for its creation. The products will not only be removed from the racks, some believe that this is enough, they are also recalled to the consumer. The BFSA will monitor what the company does and support it in preparing the press release. It will also follow the full tracing. When a recall is organised, the Agency will carry out checks at the premises that received the contaminated products to ensure that they were removed from the store shelves. The company concerned, large or small, will have to investigate the cause of the contamination and do all it can to re-create food which complies with the applicable standards of listeria bacteria. A producer will therefore only be able to start again when we have been able to see from our checks that the company can be released again. As the Minister said, we already organised 23 product recalls in 2019 due to the listeria bacteria. It's usually about cheese and meat products. These 23 calls include ALDI and Albert Heijn. It is also important to understand the exchange of information with other Member States. The RASFF, Rapid Alert System for Food and Feed, is a European system introduced to communicate information quickly and effectively between competent control authorities of national administrations and the Commission. Also when it comes to measures taken in response to serious risks. This exchange of information should enable all Member States to act swiftly and co-ordinatedly in response to a threat to public health. The RASFF system is essentially a network of clearly identified contact points at the Commission, but also at EFSA, and at national level in the Member States. The data is exchanged via an online platform called IRISFF. We believe that the system works properly, but of course it depends on the speed with which the information is placed in it. The Commission has also taken initiatives and modernised the system and is also coordinating with other exchange systems. Of course, the RASFF system is not the only system that allows Member States to exchange information. I'm a member of Heads of Agents myself. Those are the heads of all the departments involved in inspections. There too we try to build up a network that allows us to contact you. I made use of it, of course, to insist last weekend on obtaining the information. That's not the only thing. We have the Chief Veterinary Officers, the Chief Plant Health Officers and the Chief Food Safety Officers, all of whom form networks for the exchange of information. One of your questions was about RASFF's figures. In 2018, 163 RASFF messages were prepared by Belgium on a product of non-Belgian origin. Of these, 76 were from the European Union and 87 from third countries. In 2019 we were already up to 125 RASFF-reports about products not of Belgian origin. Of these, 65 came from the European Union and 60 from third countries. By third countries, of course, I mean all countries that do not belong to the European Union. I believe I have given an overview of the working methods of the agency and of the aspects at European level which must also be implemented at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u4	Thank you, Mr Diricks, for your helpful statement. Many of us are new to this committee, so it is certainly good to have a framework. It would also be useful if you were to forward your text to us so that it could be delivered to the committee members.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u5	Okay.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u6	We now turn to a number of questions about the listeria contamination at the company Offerman in the Netherlands. I understand that there are several questions because of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, to which Mrs de Laveleye and Mrs Creemers belong, but one of you will take the floor on behalf of the Group.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u7	Mr President, I would like to begin by expressing my indignation at the fact that Minister De Block is not here. We asked her this morning if she wanted to come, but she didn't want to. Minister, we were assured that you would speak on behalf of the two ministers. I now heard four times say that this matter belongs to the responsibility of Minister De Block. That's gonna piss me off. That being said, I'm still hungry about timing. We read that in the company Offerman, which is now in dispute, checks had already been carried out in 2017, the results of which were negative. There were problems back then. There were problems then and again in early 2019. On 31 July there was again a problem with hygiene. I am very glad that I have now heard the explanation, the importance of hygiene and its controls. I also understand that it is a Dutch company, which is not directly within the competence of the BFSA. However, as a result of imports into our country, this is also our responsibility. I don't know why we didn't know that before. Is that a problem in communication between the European Member States? You say the system worked properly, but how come we didn't know this before? I have some doubts with Minister Ducarme whether the European reporting system has worked properly. I want to know if this is really okay and, if not, what you will do to make this better in the future. We know that the Dutch company Offerman is a subsidiary of the Belgian company Ter Beke. So I also want to know whether it is absolutely certain that there are no problems with the parent company. Have there been any checks in the meantime? I still find it very strange that we still have to hear in 2019 that it is not possible to trace such meat products, or food products in general. I thought that efforts had been made in the last 20 years and we could now trust that if there is something in our supermarkets that might not be okay, we know where that comes from. Conversely, that when a company imports or exports something, we know where it comes from. It should be possible to do so much more quickly when it comes to suspecting a risk to public health. I also hear Mr Diricks saying that there are so many ways and procedures to exchange information, but how come we didn't know this before? It is not because it is happening in the Netherlands that there is no effect on public health here. My final question is very specific. Is it possible that there is still a problem for the Belgian consumer at the moment? We have already heard about the communication at the BFSA during the past legislature. There have been internal audits, there have been promises that there will be follow-up reports every three months. What about that? Are you okay? What is being done to improve all this so that we do not see this in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u8	Thank you for the explanation. I'm gonna have a few more questions. Do I understand correctly that it was on ALDI's initiative that the problem was raised? Is it because of ALDI's report that we found out that there was a problem with the Dutch company? Do you think the RASFF system has worked well? It is also unclear to me why it has taken so long before it has become clear exactly where the meats have ended up. The communication sequence related to the sharing of information has been explained, but our group wonders how food is traced in our supermarkets. What about the flow of information when there is a problem in production in our own country or in a country that supplies us? If you look at the website of the BFSA, you will see that it is recommended that no listeria should be established during the production process for a food processing company. How am I supposed to interpret that in this case? Is it true that European directives require that there should be no listeria in the food industry? There was still listeria found in the company concerned. What is your opinion on the threshold? Surely it is worrying that serious infections are apparently possible even if a company has remained below that threshold at all checks? Have any infections been diagnosed in our country with the same listeria strain? You confirmed that there were two cases in 2018, but that the BFSA was not aware of the reason for the question. I think we can rest assured that we are entitled to that information if we are asked to check it in our databases. Tot slot, is de situatie nuonder controle in ons land?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u9	I would like to thank the speakers for their comments. We've already gotten some more information. It is good that we can have it in the short term, but I still have a number of questions. I'm a little confused by the timeline we got. If there is a food crisis, it is very important to know who knew what was going on and how it was going on. At the moment I am still a little confused, because the Minister said that on 4 October the Minister and the BFSA were contacted by ALDI. But on October 3rd, a letter has already been sent by Ter Beke. Then who was the letter addressed to? That's not clear to me. So why didn't we take action on 3 October? I assume you were officially informed on October 4th. Can you clarify that a little bit? Communication is always very important in the event of such a crisis, especially in the other countries. I feel like the shoe's pinching a little bit here. Let us be clear, the determination has indeed been made in the Netherlands. That's where the main core is. There is a European alert platform, the RASFF, to communicate and to communicate information to the different countries. It is good that there is such a system to be able to respond quickly and in a coordinated manner, but it must of course be put into operation properly. If I understand correctly, the Netherlands did not use this system until 7 October. That's a few days after the first information. From the explanation I understood that there was already confirmation on 2 October that listeria strain was effectively the strain that caused the infection. Why did the Netherlands wait five days to set the European alert system in motion? This could possibly have been done more quickly and could possibly have been done more quickly. That is certainly not a reproach to the Minister or the BFSA. That is, of course, the responsibility of the Netherlands. The Netherlands must provide information to the European system. It is a pity that such a system exists but is used too late. The BFSA has, in my view, acted correctly. It's been looking for other ways to get information. Mr Diricks, you have talked about another network to get additional information, but I don't remember the name. That's good, of course. Minister, you have sent a letter to your colleague. Have you received an answer? Can we get some more information on this? What was the reaction? How does the Netherlands explain that it did not set this European alert system in motion until 7 October? That is at least the information we find on the RASFF website, namely that the Netherlands did not put information on it until 7 October. Yesterday, in plenary, I called for this to be put on the agenda at European level so that all countries use it properly. It is a good thing that there is a communication system, but that must be filled in firmly and quickly. I still have a few questions about the investigations. If I understand correctly, it is by comparing patient's DNA and nutrition that one can find that match. This is a technique that has already been used in the Netherlands and now apparently in Belgium. I understand that in Belgium there are about 80 infections a year with the listeria bacteria. Is that DNA test applied by default when there's an infection? Is each case being examined or are there any exceptions? The BFSA is now investigating traceability. It is therefore examined whether all the products of the company from which the listeria strain originated were withdrawn from the Belgian market. At the moment, consumers are not sure whether it is safe to buy fine meat products everywhere. It would therefore be a good idea to clarify this, so that consumers can regain confidence in the supermarkets. Can you provide a clear state of play in the traceability investigation? Is there any possibility that there will still be products from the companies concerned in our supermarkets? Can you tell me how many products have been withdrawn from the market? I have the same questions with regard to auto-checking and reporting. Can you tell how many Belgian operators have indicated in this context that they have recalled products because of the risk of listeria contamination? I would also like to comment on the alert threshold, which I asked questions about yesterday. I keep finding it odd that the company has been under surveillance for several months. Apparently, it was not clear at which company exactly the listeria strain was present. So extra surveillance was carried out. The first signals were already in July 2019. On 10 August there were then two positive cases. Still, it took quite a long time before they took action. Apparently, it is possible that the alert threshold is not exceeded, but that people still die. The question then arises: I also asked it yesterday whether the alert threshold was correctly defined and whether it should not be adjusted. After all, if the alert threshold is not exceeded, there should be no risk, and yet there were deaths to be regretted. I assumed that the alert threshold would be set at European level, but I have just heard from the Minister that it is a regional competence and that alert thresholds can therefore vary from region to region. Do we always talk about the same alert threshold or are we talking about the threshold from when one decides to communicate about it? There is still some uncertainty about that. Could you clarify that for me, please? I have already noted that the listeria contamination is a source of consumer confidence in the meat sector. It is a pity that such a thing happens and we absolutely must try to avoid it. However, we must also be realistic and realise that the bacteria listeria can be found in nature. So there will certainly be a need for sensitisation and a need for full monitoring. That's what's gonna happen. There has been major emotional damage caused by the death of three people and an unborn child. We absolutely must avoid that happening, because it is a real tragedy. In addition to the great emotional damage, there will undoubtedly be economic damage. Do you have any idea what this means to our Belgian companies? How much damage do they suffer from this?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u10	Mrs Sneppe, Mrs Gijbels, Mrs Creemers and Mrs de Laveleye had questions for Minister De Block. Because it is not present, Minister Ducarme has agreed to try to give an answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u11	Mr President, due to the good and complete information that has just been provided, most of the questions have already been answered. In the meantime, however, new questions have emerged. Reference was made to the fact that the Dutch Food and War Authority had the impression that this was happening in the company. I know that the BFSA has no jurisdiction in the Netherlands, but has the BFSA responded by carrying out additional checks at the parent company Ter Beke here with us? I have also understood from your explanation that the bacteria are naturally present almost everywhere and that it is difficult to identify the place of infection. In the past, there have been listeria infections. Did we then find out exactly where the contamination took place in the food chain? I assume that this is not yet clear in the dossier today, but I hope that it has been learned from previous infections. That way maybe we can clear up the place of infection? The contamination may have occurred in the company that is now calling back all products, but it may have happened in the consumer's kitchen. I believe that no company is waiting for such contamination, and I believe that it will do everything in its power to avoid it. In the event of contamination, the necessary measures must be taken, as has happened. It seems to me appropriate to make public the source of contamination afterwards, so that the blame should not always be placed in the same shoes. Finally, I would like to ask a small question about supplementing my file and my knowledge. Such contamination is possible anywhere, it is said here. But can it also be airborne? Normally only viruses can be transmitted by air. I'd like some clarification, though.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u12	Mr President, I apologise, but I sit on the House Rules Committee at the same time and go from one meeting to the next! Minister, many points have already been raised yesterday. I would like to go back to what seems to me the most intriguing in this matter, namely the delay between the first event on the Dutch side and the useful information that comes to Belgium and especially to AFSCA. In the provisions at European level, which you have explained at length, is there a sanctions mechanism for countries that would delay providing useful information? Far be it from me to customize the problem with Holland. Globally, what about the European space, between countries that import and export each other, and far beyond? Again in this European and international dimension, what about imported products beyond the European area? What is, in this case, the communication system on listeriosis or other pathogens important in terms of public health? Finally, Belgium has a somewhat different system between the two Communities because it is based on one or two cases. Like you, I think we need to be able to change this system. Only one case is enough. On the other hand, at the European and international levels, there may be listeriosis in different ways. This can be done on a sample that has been carried out or because one has an identified patient carrying or whose bacteriological analyses have shown that he has a more or less important pathology of the listeria. At the European and international levels, does any type of situation permit the referral of information to other countries when products are exchanged, whether on the basis of a sample or when a clinical case occurs to identify products that cause listeriosis? Returning to Belgium, you said that 15 000 samples were taken, on average, each year, of which 9 000 were for the listeria. According to what criteria? Are some done in random sampling? Statistically, it is also known that this is how risks are identified and food security can be measured.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u13	Mr President, Minister, first of all I would like to say that what has happened here regarding Mrs De Block's responsibility is unheard of. Mr President, I asked you yesterday whether it was not possible to invite Mrs De Block to the committee this afternoon. I have heard orally from you that Mrs De Block refused to do so. When we called on her to do so this morning, she claimed that there was no public health problem whatsoever in the dossier and that public health was not yet involved. It therefore ruled that it was not necessary in committee. It therefore called on Mr Ducarme to deal with the exchange of views. I honestly admit that everything I've heard here today is about public health. So it is not done that we are being shipped off in this way. Having said that, I will not go back to the problem, but will go straight to my specific questions. Firstly, I understand that the European alert system warned us on Friday 4 October 2019. However, I have also understood that there is still a problem, because for us this warning does not go fast enough. I would like to have more explanation about that. Is there anything you can do about that? Is it the Netherlands? Has that country not implemented the system quickly enough, as I understand from Mr Diricks? Can something be done about this at European level so that something like this can no longer happen? Secondly, was the BFSA aware of the research at Offerman this summer? It was known in the Netherlands that there were investigations at Offerman at the end of July 2019. Did we know that in Belgium? Offerman is a subsidiary of Ter Beke. Maybe Ter Beke knew? In what way can the BFSA obtain such information if it does not do so at the moment? Are there no means of making that flow much better? After all, we find that in a globalised market a better flow is needed, because unfortunately Listeria is not prevented by the Belgian-Dutch border. According to NVWA, the company was already fined because the machines in the Dutch branch were not properly cleaned. The company denies that. I also see Ter Beke denies that. When did the company get a fine in the past? What measures have been taken in this regard? Did we know that in Belgium? Ter Beke seems to deny that. Did the BFSA know that? In recent years, there have been a number of listeriosis infections that, if I understand correctly, could be linked to Sacrificeman. Did we know about that? Did the BFSA know about this? We know from literature that listeriosis infections are common. You said the same thing. What specific measures are in force in Belgium to combat listeriosis infections? Has the BFSA been made clear by the Netherlands whether meat products were delivered to other supermarket chains in our country in addition to ALDI and Albert Heijn? AllLDI took the roast beef out of the shelves and a few days later Albert Heijn too, but did or did other supermarket chains have Sacrificeman's meat products on the shelves? Following the crisis in the Netherlands, has the BFSA conducted research in supermarket chains in Belgium and in meat processing companies linked to the Ter Beke group? Are there any results of that? It seems logical to me that if that happens to Offerman, this will also be looked at more closely by Belgian companies linked to the Ter Beke group. Is that the intention or has it already happened? What took you so long? ALDI took the roast beef out of the racks at some point, but why did it take until Sunday before Albert Heijn did the same? What was the ultimate reason for Albert Heijn to do it? Do you have any idea how many people in Belgium have been infected with the listeria bacteria via Saferman's meat products in recent years? They seem to know that in the Netherlands. I wonder if we know that here too. Has the company Ter Beke already been contacted by the BFSA to explore what are the next steps to be taken? What will happen in the near future? In what way is a collaboration between the BFSA and Ter Beke set up? How's that gonna go? Mr Diricks, you say that 23 products have already been recalled in 2019 in connection with listeria. Three of them are Albert Heijn's. Which other Belgian companies did this happen to? Are these connected to Ter Beke or are they companies that are not in contact with it? During the fipronil crisis there was a lack of communication and transparency. It was discussed for a very long time. This has caused great confusion and confusion. Can you indicate what the BFSA has learned in the meantime on food safety crisis communication? What are the most striking changes in your crisis communication? What steps does the BFSA take to inform consumers as well as possible about symptoms of the listeria infection? Until recently, almost no one knew exactly what these are. You did start communication on this immediately. Is there no system in which the BFSA could prevent the most common or most risky infections? Those were my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u14	Mr President, Minister, many questions have already been asked. So I will not go back to everything that has already been said. Nevertheless, let me note and surprise myself that there is a lack of knowledge of distribution and marketing channels. One might think that from the moment we are certain that Aalsmeer's business is a problem – as we learned on October 2nd – the authorities could very quickly have drawn up a list of products from the place of distribution and marketed at home. But let us see together, this has not been the case. Last Friday, only one product – Aldi's roast – was subject to a recall. On Sunday, two days later, Albert Heijn announced the withdrawal of seven new references. So, obviously, it takes a long time to trace the distribution of products. But even more surprising is the content of the AFSCA communications which, on Friday, October 4, declared that it was unable to say whether other products were involved and which, on Sunday, October 6, indicated that further reminders were not to be excluded. How can we explain this significant food safety flaw, Minister? What additional controls have been undertaken in Belgium at Ter Beke's production sites since the problems within the company Offerman were demonstrated? My last question concerns the lack of cooperation with the Netherlands. We had already understood, by reading the AFSCA communiqués, that there were some difficulties on this side. But to hear you, things are more serious than you could imagine. I am referring here to the delays between the first positive signals in the Netherlands and the moment when these signals were communicated abroad, therefore at home. I would also like to take this as proof of their request to Sciensano without specifying that it concerns a suspicion of listeria which is still at the origin of fatal cases at home, at the level of a company that exports to us. You said that this was not the first time we had a problem with the transmission of information with the Netherlands – which is correct. It will be recalled that, during the fipronil crisis, you had already very strongly criticized the lack of cooperation with the Dutch agency. You explained at the time that the AFSCA had sought information about a Dutch company that had performed lice treatment in a Belgian henhouse in our home. It took more than a month for the NVWA to respond. You said there would be a frank and direct exchange with the Dutch colleague. When a country like the Netherlands does not provide this kind of information, it is a real problem. How do you explain that the lack of cooperation between agencies persists, even though these difficulties had already been identified two years ago?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u15	Mr President, I wanted to start from a small point of view. It has not yet been reported that the company Offerman has been part of the Belgian group Ter Beke since 2017. He was involved both in 1996 in the mad cow crisis and in 1999 in the dioxin crisis. As L'Echo called it a few days ago, Ter Beke is "the king of meat and prepared dishes", whose turnover amounts to more than 500 million euros. As I understand it, you explained that there was a problem at the end of July. Then, on 13 August, two of the eleven samples from Offerman proved positive, as they contained listeriosis. You would have been informed of this in early October, when the cases, deaths and samples were linked through DNA analysis. In principle, it seems rather hallucinating. As a doctor, I know that prevention is better than cure. However, in this case, I note that it was only after a relationship was established between the dead and the contamination that you had the meat recalled. So I don't understand. At European level, is it normal for the Netherlands to inform only at the beginning of October, and not in August, when it could already be feared that contaminated meat could be found in Belgian rays, causing sick people and dead people? My second question concerns the Ter Beke group itself, since he is also the king of meat and prepared dishes here. How many manufacturing sites does it own? Did you strengthen the controls? What have been their results in recent years? The late notification of this case by the Netherlands was criticized. If there were cases of Listeriosis contamination in Belgium, what would be our response? I assume that the 9 0000 checks mentioned are not self-checks. I would have liked information on that. If listeria is identified, is it certain that potentially contaminated lots will be removed from the shelves? You say that 99.2% of the checks are in the standards. When we exceed them, is the presence of listeria notified to other European countries? In concrete terms, you say you recalled 23 products. Are they only products covered by the listeria? Are Ter Beke's products part of it? These are products for which there has been a DNA match or are they simply contaminated? My last question may be a little out of the picture. From the moment a match is made between, for example, salmonellosis, a specific product and the contaminated person, possibly dead, is a criminal procedure initiated? What's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u16	Mr President, I will speak briefly in view of the completeness, accuracy and quality of the presentations. Mr Minister, in any case, in the light of the information presented today and already yesterday at the plenary session, we see that you have been making the protection of the health of our consumers one of your priorities for the past two years. We heard that you were not only responsive to the Dutch problem, but that you and AFSCA were proactive. This contamination of listeria was detected last week in the Netherlands. It concerns prepackaged products from a Dutch company. However, we certainly had to act in our country to ensure that the health of Belgians was not in danger. We hear your information and that of the managing director of the AFSCA. It is clear that the Agency has proceeded as it should, in a transparent manner, by informing consumers and speedily with regard to product recalls. As early as Friday, the Agency indicated that it had immediately contacted the Dutch authorities through the European alert system in order to receive information on any deliveries from the company concerned to our country. So things are very clear. Already yesterday, thanks to your reply, we were able to see that the AFSCA carried out extensive daily work by carrying out considerable checks throughout the year, and therefore not only after this tragic event in the Netherlands. The compliance rate is very high, which is, of course, positive and reassuring for our people. I have heard that it is not your responsibility to determine for yourself the presence of malfunctions at the level of the Dutch authorities. However, I would like a clarification of the work carried out by the Dutch authorities. Indeed, in view of the circulation of products, these situations must undoubtedly be managed on a transnational scale. What new initiatives do you think should be taken at European level?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u17	Mr President, Mr Diricks, as a newcomer, I should like to thank you for the lesson you have taught me. You've done an excellent job. I do not want to go too lightly over the drama that has taken place in the Netherlands. There are three deaths and one unborn child to be regretted. However, I would like to call for the problem to be reduced to the right proportions. I do not think it would help us to panic. I think we should be more nuanced. I think there are three good reasons for nuance. Firstly, the source of the contamination is in the Netherlands. A bacteria cannot be stopped at the border, but this does not prevent the source from being in the Netherlands. Secondly, there is the fact that this listeria bacteria was discovered thanks to the strict food controls that exist both in the Netherlands and Belgium. These are relatively new techniques which, for example, are not used in France. In part, therefore, we must reassure ourselves. Thirdly, the nature of the bug is of course that the listeria bacteria is almost everywhere. She's in the ground, in the water, in vegetables... so there's no point in shooting meat producers. I understand that the problem has arisen in the processing and packaging of foodstuffs. We should not therefore immediately assume that the companies acted in bad faith. In any case, the people of this sector have no benefit whatsoever from being lax about the rules. However, there is no zero risk. You might blame me for bringing a good news show here, but we are better able to detect those problems. For me, it is very important that the recall with Aldi and Albert Heyn was taken as a precaution. I would not like to talk about a food crisis immediately. I'd rather see this as an incident, an isolated case. This does not, of course, mean that consumers should rightly be concerned. In fact, I am concerned about the fact that the BFSA had to press its Dutch sister for additional information. This raises the question raised by several colleagues here, namely whether this means that the Netherlands did not inform RASFF or was too late. I would have liked to ask you this last question, Minister. When did the RASFF be informed? How did they do this? Is there a need for better directives in this area? I shall now come to my second question. Was there delivered to other companies in Belgium? I read that a wholesaler in Antwerp, Sligro, claims to have delivered eight large customers of those meat products. Is there any clarity about that? Finally, is there any clarity as to the quantity delivered, how much of it was recalled and when? How much has been achieved by consumers? Is there another part in the supermarkets or in the refrigerator with consumers? What is the risk we are still running in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u18	Now that all the groups have been able to speak and ask their questions, I shall pass the floor to the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u19	Mr President, thank you. Given the number of questions, I will consolidate my answer, which will be supplemented by Mr. Diricks depending on the subject matter. Mr President, Mrs Creemers, first of all I would like to say that it is the committee's responsibility which minister she wants to see in Parliament. That's not my responsibility. You and the members of the committee decide, that's your role. Ministers are always at Parliament's disposal. That's our role, and that's your decision. If you want to see the Minister of Health and she's not here, excuse me, but that's because you wanted to. It's as simple as that!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u20	It's not for lack of insistence, Mr. Ducrame. We insisted enough.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u21	You shouldn't blame me and send me back the blame. Ministers are available for Parliament. That's probably because it's a new legislature, and a new president. In any case, I say to you: I was a member of Parliament for 16 years, and when I asked for a minister, he always came. It bothers me as much as you have to answer some questions that are not within my competence. If you have to come back with the Minister of Health, or with others, since questions have been asked about the legal field, I will be present. We talked. You told me we had to come and I came. Mrs Creemers, I am not going to answer your question about audits. You already put it to Parliament yesterday. I don't think that's very subtle. I told you, AFSCA did more than it had to. It even triggered the European RASFF before the Netherlands. As I told you, the compliance rate is 99.2%. Fifteen thousand tests on microbiological pathogens are being conducted, and 9,000 relate to the issue we are concerned about. In 2019, 23 reminders took place regarding Listeria in our country. On this issue, we and AFSCA are on the breach and will remain so. Ms. Creemers asked about the status of the audit. This would mean that the AFSCA would not do its job well in relation to the listeria, since it is under audit. So I'm not going to answer you. If you wish to hold a meeting on this issue, I would ask you to ask the committee to do so. Of course, the Minister of Agriculture and Food Security will be at Parliament's disposal to answer you and explain the great progress that has been made following the integration of the audit recommendations. Mrs Gijbels, the RASFF message came only at the initiative of the BFSA. It was the Belgian BFSA that contacted his Dutch colleague on its own initiative, and not the other way around. That is probably problematic indeed. But I don't want to start pointing out the Netherlands either. Mrs. Tillieux, you say it's amazing. I have just received the reply from the Dutch Minister. I'll read you something important. He pointed out that the traceability exercise had not yet been finalised in the Netherlands. There may be other lots sold in Belgium. Traceability - and you will return, Mr Diricks - is a very heavy exercise to operate. Why? Mrs Merckx, you probably know that the incubation period is six weeks. It is obvious that in relation to the traceability of the product, it is not like this that we will know, over six weeks, what product was eaten by a consumer, at what time, from which store. It is probably one of the most difficult pathogens to trace. So it takes time. Mr Diricks will return, the precautionary principle concerning listeria is obviously activated by the AFSCA in a very strong way. Moreover, in the past, it has been accused by a number of parliamentarians, in relation to certain products, of wanting to take a little too much precaution in relation to listeria. Indeed, believe that it is on the breach at this level and that it will remain so. I would like to answer several questions on the number of checks. Yes, I repeat again, there were 15,000 checks, including 9,000 on the listeria, 23 reminders in 2019 and a compliance rate of 99.2%. Honestly, based on the information in my possession, I think we are rather on the very good European average in this area. Ms. Tillieux asked about communication with other countries. At my initiative, we have established liaison officers with neighbouring countries. Since we set up these liaison officers, since the last crisis, communication has been more fluid than before. Contacts are made faster. We asked the Dutch minister some questions. We have already received a response quite quickly. The contacts are made. As to whether they should not have triggered the RASFF earlier, I note in this case that it was Belgium that triggered the RASFF before the Dutch for a firm located in the Netherlands. Still! To make this clear, I would say that the problem lies in the Netherlands in this factory. This is where listeria develops, no matter if it is a subsidiary of the Belgian company, Ter Beke. The problem of listeria is in the Netherlands in this undertaking. It's not because they're financially linked. By way of comparison, your son or daughter may have a cold, you may not catch it. Isn't that right? Forgive the image a little simplistic but there is no link in terms of productivity around the products used. Tests are of course carried out in Ter Beke and, of course, to make all the clarity, Mr Diricks will tell you about the tests that are performed, each year, in this firm as in the others. Mrs Fonck, I think your question of sanctions makes a lot of sense. Emergency measures may be taken by the Commission in a number of cases. As I have told you, I have put this point on the agenda of the European Council. Mrs Dierick, you asked the question of RASFF and the communication which must be as rapid as possible between the different countries. As soon as there is information, it must be contextualized in the context of the transmission of information (cf. 30-31 July for the Dutch homologue of Sciensano). I have your proposal before me and I am going to deal with it in the context of the Council which will be held on Monday and Tuesday, suggesting that we can, no doubt at the initiative of the new Commission and because it is a matter of public health, imagine if not sanctions, at least a system of rating countries on the quality and speed of the information they have to provide on food security. I will come back to you in relation to this aspect. As far as the question of self-control is concerned, much has been explained during the last legislature, the invention is Belgian. It bears so much fruit that it will be copied at European level. There are a large number of problematic cases that have been identified through self-control. It is not because companies act themselves that vigilance and rigour are not at work. Maybe Mr. Diricks can touch a note. There are questions about October 3rd, but if I am not mistaken, it is on October 3rd that Ter Beke communicates the information to the ULC in Antwerp at 9:30 p.m. Our communication, at the AFSCA level, takes place on 4 October quite early in the morning and the RASFF is also sent at the beginning of the day, not for a problem that arises at Ter Beke but in relation to the problem that arises in the Netherlands. With regard to the alert threshold, it was pointed out that it would be interesting for the regions which were autonomous in this field to agree on a system for the transmission of information and which would see the North and the South working in the same way for the transmission of information at Sciensano level. The fundamental question that you all ask is the risk to the consumer. In terms of food security, zero risk does not exist. I told you that there were 23 reminders this year, only for cases of listeria. I've given you the number of people with listeriosis in our country since 2014. Naturally, zero risk does not exist. So we're in a race against the clock. In terms of traceability, we can isolate products very quickly when they are sold on a large surface. However, when a wholesaler sells to small traders, traceability is more difficult to guarantee. Moreover, as I have pointed out to you, on the part of the Netherlands, it has not yet been completed. That is why recalls and product withdrawals will most likely still take place in our country in order to protect the health of the consumer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u22	Mr President, I would like to outline a general context on how we work and how we deal with such matters and then come to the various questions that have been asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u23	You have already given a general explanation, so perhaps you can keep it brief.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u24	Yes, but people are talking about the duration of things that happen. I think it is important to bear in mind that the work is not always obvious. I will limit myself as much as possible, but the Minister had also asked for some explanation on traceability exercises. There are two things we need to distinguish here. First of all, what happens in the context of an investigation before one has the source and then traceability from the moment we know that the origin of a problem lies with a particular company. It took the Dutch time to effectively pinpoint the problem. If we look at a number of previous cases, such as listeria in frozen vegetables or the well-known example of E. coli in vegetables in Germany, we can see that it took months to find the source. It was first thought that the source was Spanish cucumbers, but ultimately the European institution, EFSA, after a long investigation, had been found not only in Germany but also in France, determined that the E. coli was in fenugreek seeds from Egypt. What I mean by that is that it takes time to conduct an investigation and find an effective source. I believe that this is important to mention in the context in which we work, including as a Belgian agency. A second aspect that is very important here is that we have the pool of human health and the pool of research in food. It is precisely at European level that we try to link these two poles by working on the side of human health with the ECDC, which collects all kinds of information about human contamination, and on the other hand the activities we do. It is particularly difficult to put the two pictures next to each other. When talking about duration, for example, genome sequencing sometimes takes up to six weeks. That is to say, we have to wait six weeks to know the result. I hope that technology will develop in such a way that it can go faster, but in any case I would like to point out in particular that it may take some time from the moment one finds out until one finally finds the source. Once the source has been found, the next problem is traceability through the chain. As we have noted, ALDI was very quick to react. Albert Heijn was followed a little later. The relationship between the producer and the seller of the product is In a number of other cases, and especially in the case of small distributors, it is possible that a product goes from producer to two grossists and a caterer. At that time, all steps must be followed before anyone who sells the product to the consumer or uses it himself. I believe that this is not an obvious exercise in itself. I can also understand that this took some time in the Netherlands. We must also add that companies which have a duty to inform their contractors do so. In this way one gets a parallel circuit between what companies pass on to each other and what they transfer through RASFF. I must say that we should be particularly satisfied with the fact that the people of Control are always knocking very hard on the nail of reporting. In this way, as a BFSA in Belgium, we are always very quickly informed of possible problems and potential calls by the operators. I hope that didn't take up too much of your time. I just wanted to outline the general picture. I believe that I have outlined the context for the answer to questions about the duration of time for the Dutch. As the Minister said, it is ultimately up to the Dutch Members of Parliament to judge this. Let me come back to the traceability and causes of the listeria contamination. A Member of Parliament has asked whether we should not return to the source. This is very difficult. Raw milk, for example, is a source of listeria, but not every batch of raw milk is contaminated. What happened in a company like Sacrificeman is explained by the fact that they are slicers they cut products. Their activity consists of cutting products. Once there is a contamination on a cutting machine from a raw raw material and this is not sufficiently cleaned, there may be a continuous point source that occasionally causes contamination. This explains why there is sometimes no problem in the same company, while a problem can be identified next time. So it's very complex to really go to the origins. The meat industry, as I said, often works with raw products. For example, raw milk cheeses also pose a problem. Our French colleagues often do calls for raw milk cheeses, because there is not a single step in the process to destroy the listeria. Very good hygiene is therefore very important. This applies to milk producers from the start to the person selling the product to the consumer. Listeria can be passed not only through food, but also through personal contact. I don't know if I can do it by air. I think it's mainly human contact and contact with contaminated surfaces. A colleague once told me that the sounds in a company were contaminated. At least there's got to be a connection. With regard to Ter Beke's branches in Belgium, I believe that, as the Minister pointed out, we should pay attention to the assumption that the problems in one company of the financial group automatically radiate to the other companies. Before your meeting, we made some enquiries for checks at Ter Beke's premises. Five checks were carried out and inspections were assessed favourably each time. Some inspections are carried out twice a year in the companies. They're also taking samples. In a company, for example, 14 samples were analysed in 2019 on listeria under the control plan. All the products we officially sampled were beneficial. This also applies to another establishment, where we have done four samplings. The frequency of sampling depends, inter alia, on the nature of the products produced on the holding. Without advertising Ter Beke, we can generally say that Ter Beke's offices in Belgium are functioning correctly. They have a validated auto-checking system. Our inspections are favourable or in the worst case favourable with some comments. The results of the analyses we carry out in our monitoring programme are also positive. I think I have summarised all the answers. I think, as has just been said by the Minister, that we should above all work together, especially at European level. It is a pity that I do not have more time, but the schedules of the flow of products across Europe are particularly striking. It is a globalised market and, of course, all Member States and inspection services of the individual Member States will have to play their part there. However, I believe that good cooperation at European level is needed, even more so than is the case today, possibly driven by the European institutions such as the Commission, the ECDC or EFSA. I believe that we are making the most of this, because, for example, the prevention of clustering at European level is easier than at the level of individual Member States. There is more chance of achieving a reasonable result. It is not up to us to see what the Dutch are doing, but at least we are going to check with the companies if their HACCP system is about to go. Why the HACCP system? Different measures are taken depending on the different types of products. For example, there are a number of products that have been scientifically demonstrated to be unable to grow listeria on the basis of a number of parameters. These products will, of course, be looked at in a different way than the products where they are possible and which the company must also pay attention to within its self-checking, as the Minister said. The sum of self-checking and control by the Agency should lead to minimising problems that may reach the consumer. If a recall has to be done, our people will not only follow the call theoretically, but in 10 % of the cases we will look effectively on the spot.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u25	Every time we have a recall or a withdrawal, we go on site to see if they are actually executed. Last Friday we checked an ALDI store by UPC – nine stores in total – and on Saturday we checked four Albert Heijn stores. All controls were favourable. Similarly, when we control operators who receive products but do not make them available to consumers, we check whether the withdrawal is actually carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u26	Reference has been made repeatedly to the alert threshold. Listeria is one of the special cases. There are several alert thresholds depending on how the product is analysed. There's the rule of absence in 25 grams. There is also the rule that a product is safe if one does not exceed 100 colony-forming units at the end of the shelf life. In other words, that way, even though they contain listeria, products can be compliant. As far as the issue of civil liability is concerned, of course, we draw up a report when we see infringements. The report is then sent to the Public Prosecutor's Office and criminal proceedings are initiated. Those affected may file a civil suit if they deem it necessary. That is for the individual national level. I believe that all Member States have understood that it is important to ensure good information through the Rapid Alert System for Food and Feed (RASFF) portal. There may be delays, but the pressure from the Commission and the other Member States is so strong that everyone is still trying to make proper use of RASFF. That is why I made it clear at the beginning of my speech that RASFF was working. Comparing RASFF with what it was at the beginning and looking at the amount of information exchanged via RASFF and other systems – for example for administrative support – we realize that Europe has made great strides in this area. I fully agree that everything can be improved. That is why we are trying to meet with agency officials to ensure that we have networks to communicate in the event of problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u27	Mr President, the ping-pong with Mrs De Block is still going on. On Friday, we asked for this emergency meeting. Because of the division of powers, we have asked both Minister De Block, Minister Ducarme and the BFSA to be here. We have been promised that this week we could ask questions to Minister De Block about the listeria contamination. If it is up to us to ask, we ask again. There are still a number of questions about public health that we remain concerned about. I am very pleased to hear that much progress has already been made on internal audits and that actions have already been taken to optimise communication to citizens. If it is also up to us to ask for a separate meeting to be organised on the consequences of the recommendations implemented within the BFSA Steering Committee, I would like to ask that question here. After all, we are very curious as to how that is going. I hear Minister Ducarme say he has plans to speak to colleagues at European level. I'm very glad to hear that. That's it. I also hear a lot about cooperation between different food agencies and health institutions, both domestic and abroad. In Belgium prevention is still in Flanders and Wallonia. I hear there are still many challenges to work more streamlined. Minister, we hope that you and Minister De Block will take concrete action. I hear a lot is already being done on traceability. There are also challenges because the free market, both within Europe and with third countries, can still be improved. I would suggest that this matter be referred to the Agriculture Council so that action can be taken. There is discussion as to whether food safety is now under the control of the Minister of Agriculture or the Minister of Health. I believe that our point has been made that this subject would be better dealt with by the Minister for Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u28	We can effectively go further in this direction. Rule 30 of the Rules of Procedure states: 'The committee may request the presence of the member of the government responsible for the matter under discussion'. The quorum has been reached here. All groups are present. We can vote on this or be unanimous. I would like to put this to the vote. Let it be clear that, of course, we still need to find a suitable moment with Minister De Block's cabinet. Are we taking Mrs De Block on this matter? I would suggest that we vote on this by show of hands. Who's in favor? There are six votes for it. Who's against it? There are three votes against. Who's remembering? (...) In this respect, we take up Minister De Block. I do not know the procedure enough to know what effect we must link directly to it. We must, of course, take a little account of her agenda, but I would suggest that we hear her at least next week. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u29	We are talking about the questions asked to Minister De Block about the listeria contamination. Let us be clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u30	Mr President, what is wrong with the possibility of asking for Minister De Block's arrival now?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u31	Okay, we can call her. I don't know where she is right now. In the meantime, we can move on.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u32	I find that there is a lack of respect for any minister. We're talking like the minister doesn't want to come. I may be part of another generation, but I really find that there is a lack of respect between us and also for ministers. I wanted to say it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u33	I understand your point of view, Mrs Taquin, but there is also respect for Parliament. I simply quote an article of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Ducrame has always been very correct with regard to this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u34	Mr. Chairman, you can also ask the minister rather than put her presence to the vote!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u35	We have done so on several occasions and the answer was no.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u36	She nevertheless announced earlier that she was available. Just now, there was a question about her stay abroad as if she were on a permanent holiday. I'm sorry, I don't accept.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u37	I didn't claim that, Mrs. Taquin. I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u38	Who says no word consent!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u39	I just noticed this morning that Mrs De Block said: "I'm not coming. If the Conference of Presidents obliges me to do so, I will come." That is what she said and this point has apparently not been discussed in the Conference of Presidents. Let us continue with the statements since Mr Ducarme is always interested and competent in food safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u40	Mr President, this morning we asked Minister De Block if she could be present, but she said she was not competent in this matter. However, we would like to hear her on this matter. If that is not today, preferably soon, but we do not want to wait until November.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u41	In the meantime, as usual, I suggest that you replicate the answers you received from Minister Ducarme and the representative of the BFSA.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u42	Mr President, two points were not clear to me in the speech. Was it from Ter Beke that the report came to the Dutch authorities about a problem with Offerman? Did I get that right? I did not get an answer to my question in your opinion on the thresholds, which in some cases prove to be problematic. Were these exceeded? I was also pleased to hear that we work in our country with the most advanced detection methods, including listeria. I believe that not only the detection methods are important, as has become clear in abundance, but that the flow of communication and information is also essential. It is perhaps incomprehensible to an outsider that it takes so long to clarify the exact extent of the problem and what chain of shops the meat products have entered. In times when new technologies such as blockchain are being deployed, I believe that the time is right to apply this principle to our food chain. That's probably something for the next minister to look at. It goes without saying that there are as few intermediate steps as possible in the communication flow. In this sense, the fragmentation of powers in our country is probably a problem. This is not conducive to a smooth sharing of information, which Sciensano also pointed out in its 2017 report. The medical aspect of food contamination lies with the Communities, the food aspect of the federal government. A suggestion from us is to transfer the food safety aspect to the Communities, just like prevention, the bulk of agricultural policy and animal welfare already are. This can create a more coherent and dynamic whole. I also believe that communication with neighbouring countries needs to be strengthened, and perhaps you are of the same opinion. Finally, quick and clear action in this matter is important for several parties: for consumers who are concerned with their health and want to know where they are, but also for the food industry, for whom uncertainty can have great consequences every day, not least for the workers who operate in these companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u43	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister and Mr Diricks for their explanations, which answered a lot of questions. The timeline is now also clearer. The pain remains that the Netherlands has taken action late, but we cannot judge further. It belongs to the domain of the Dutch Members of Parliament to work on this further. Minister, it is important that countries are informed quickly and adequately. It is therefore a good thing that such systems exist. I am also pleased that you are taking my question to the European level to discuss the matter further and to agree clear guidelines with your colleagues on this. In addition, consumer confidence is once again being dented. I hope this can be repaired quickly. I also asked whether there was any economic damage. I have not yet received an answer to that. Perhaps it is too early to say at the moment. That is why I will certainly repeat that question later. In any case, I would like to thank you for being here. Mr Diricks usually comes here as a result of a crisis in the food sector, but we have also talked about the audit. It is important that there is a feedback to a state of play on how the BFSA has evolved further. That should not happen right now, but I think it is interesting to include this on the agenda of this committee in the coming months.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u44	Mr President, all my questions were properly answered. I would like to thank the Minister, his staff and the representative of the BFSA for their presence and for the detailed explanation of the way in which they operate in crisis situations. Furthermore, I have nothing to add.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u45	Mr President, I do believe that the BFSA has done a good job in this matter. I would also like to point out how this demonstrates how important it is to continue to support the BFSA well so that good functioning can be guaranteed. Apparently, there is still some error with the European exchange. I would therefore like to call on the Minister to continue working on the dialogue between European countries. As far as data exchange is concerned, we can certainly take a number of further steps. To this end, I call upon Minister Ducarme and his possible successor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u46	I asked a question about traceability, not in the sense of going back from the sick person to the product that contaminated it, but in the sense of going down from a place of production to the shops that will distribute the products. You explained that it took time. The Netherlands has apparently not completed its traceability exercise. When wholesalers intervene, things are also more complicated. This is a globalised market, etc. We can hear your arguments. But I would like to know whether Ter Beke is working well on this traceability exercise. Has she put herself in the service of AFSCA? Has the Commission sought its cooperation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u47	Minister, we're starting to get a better understanding of the situation. Having said that, I am still hungry about the answers to certain questions. For the 9,000 checks, are these self-checks and/or controls carried out by the AFSCA, and in what proportion? I don't think I've had an answer to those questions. I understand that from the moment a source is found, it can be complicated to return to the chain. But what about the preventive aspect? When listeria is found without patients being identified, but what is possible, is a product harvest carried out? Does there need to be a proven case for a harvest to take place? On the other hand, public health is the responsibility of Mrs De Block, and we would really like to hear her. Finally, you have given some examples of checks carried out in the Ter Beke group. You're saying my mistrust isn't in order. But we know that it is a multinational that applies certain methods in terms of management, productivity, etc. In doing so, it is relevant to ask whether this group has a common hygiene policy? I would also like to know whether the tests carried out by companies are public or not? If this is not the case, should they not be made public so that everyone can verify that the company to which they buy their meat is in conformity?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u48	Mrs Tillieux and Mrs Merckx asked a few additional questions. I suggest you answer that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u49	Mr President, one of the first questions was how it could take so long. I believe that we have already given sufficient consideration to this. The chronology asked for a lot of clarification. The company Ter Beke sent an e-mail at 9:33 p.m. on 3 October to say that there was a problem and that ALDI would notify it. The next day, in the morning, ALDI did. At that time we received nothing from the Dutch through the RASFF system. We then asked for the information, firstly, to make sure that this was indeed the only case and, secondly, to see if there was any other information to be provided. In the course of Saturday, if I am not mistaken, and on Sunday we received additional information. In short, it is true that Thursday night at 9:33 p.m. Ter Beke warned that there would be a recall. On 4 October, in the morning, we received the official announcement from ALDI that the product would be withdrawn as a precaution. The issue of traceability between companies is indeed important. We, too, are working on this. We are looking at what we can do to ensure that companies can provide us with traceability data quickly and adequately. In the past, we have already set up a number of traceability exercises with our Risk Prevention and Risk Management Cell. That will certainly happen in the future. Furthermore, it is important to specify that the 9 000 controls which were the subject of the earlier inspections are the agency's official controls. We are trying to spread these official controls as evenly as possible so that we have a good picture. I have to add that many companies carry out a lot of internal analyses with their auto-control system. What happens during the inspections of the Agency is to verify whether internal controls are indeed carried out. It is clear that alongside the Agency's 9,000 official controls on the listeria, there is also all the efforts that companies must make within the framework of their HACCP systems to ensure the safety of their products. I believe that no producer, small or large, is intended to bring non-compliant products on the market. It is up to them to put in place efficient HACCP systems. In addition, good traceability will help us avoid a lot of problems. Of course we are in a European context. There is European legislation that needs to be applied. I believe that in a European context we will also have to consider whether any evolution is necessary. It may not have come out sufficiently, but introducing the whole genome sequencing is not only a game changer for us, but also for industry, in the sense that in future we will be able to intervene even faster and perhaps more efficiently with this methodology and technology in the face of food safety problems. That is a positive aspect of the whole thing. It is only two years since this was started, but we can still make a success of it. I hope I have now answered all the questions, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic023x.u50	I didn't personally check that out. Meanwhile, there's news from Minister De Block's cabinet. On 15 October she will be on another committee all day, but she is prepared to come to our committee at 4 p.m. As a reminder, that day, so Tuesday 15 October at 2.15 p.m., we planned oral questions for Minister Beke, who has now been followed up by Minister Muylle. Following the three oral questions, consideration of the priority legislative proposals and proposals for resolutions is on the agenda. At 4:00 p.m., Minister De Block can join us. I trust that the members of the committee will agree to that. I don't think it's gonna be four days. I assume that the answers were quite complete and that everyone got an answer to his question. If no one wants to speak, I will close this meeting. For information, Minister De Block will join us on October 15 at 4 p.m. to answer her part of the question. I would like to thank the Minister and all the staff of the Federal Food Chain Security Agency for their presence and answers to the questions.
