ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-15-54-commissie-ic1015x.u1	Minister, on October 1st, LGBTQI diplomats based in the United States - the host country of the United Nations headquarters - received very bad news. Indeed, they learned that the US State Department would no longer issue visas to their same-sex companion or companion, unless they were officially married. For example, if they wished to remain in the United States, same-sex partners had to submit proof of their marriage to the Department of State by 31 December, otherwise they were forced to leave the Territory within 30 days. This retrogressive decision therefore put an end to the progressive policy established under Obama's presidency. During his term of office, I recall that the United States granted visas to the LGBTQI partners of diplomats, whether they were married or not. Of course, the State Department justifies the Trump administration's decision by the principle of reciprocity. Under U.S. law, heterosexual diplomats have always had to be married to enable their partner to obtain a visa. However, this is a new decision against LGBTQI people, as UN member countries that have legalized homosexual marriage are rare. Only about 20 of them recognize a form of union between same-sex partners, when seven hundred others punish these relationships by law. Human Rights Watch deplores this decision and says: "This will have an impact on same-sex couples from countries that ban marriage for all." Mr Minister, I would therefore like to ask you the following questions. Given that our country is one of the most progressive in terms of LGBTQI rights, what will be Belgium's position on this issue? Will this decision be criticized in our diplomatic relations, particularly in the UN rostrum?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-15-54-commissie-ic1015x.u2	Mr. Henry, by note from the State Department dated 12 July, the United States requested that all diplomats on its territory, regardless of their sexual orientation, be married so that their spouse could be granted a visa. They apply the same rule to American couples who want to go abroad under diplomatic status together. The new regime introduces differential treatment between married couples and couples who opt for another form of civil union. In practice, this rule mainly complicates the lives of homosexual couples, knowing that homosexual marriage exists in only 25 countries and that, in 71 countries, homosexuality is considered a crime sometimes punishable by capital punishment or life imprisonment. In such a context, imposing marriage on same-sex couples under diplomatic status might involve a danger that would not be implied by the provision of proof of a couple's life in a private context. Diplomatic privileges and immunities are governed by the Vienna Convention, but States have a margin of discretion to define who members of the family are. Belgium also grants diplomatic passports on the basis of other forms of civil union. The United States has made another choice that we must respect. I didn't say "like." However, already in August this year, our embassy in Washington requested clarifications from the State Department in a collective approach with colleagues from the European delegation and European states like-minded. As a result, a transitional solution was found for unmarried homosexual couples already residing in the United States. Of course, we will continue to follow this issue with great attention to try to further change this position in the future, but there is at least one transition situation for those who were already in the United States. Finally, let us remember that the fight against discrimination based on sexual orientation remains a priority of our human rights policy. Belgium supports in particular the work of the independent United Nations expert on sexual orientation and gender identity, Mr. Victor Madrigal-Borloz, who monitors the implementation of existing international instruments. We also participate in the Equal Rights Coalition and the International Day against Homophobia and Transphobia, but you yourself reminded us in your question that we were particularly well developed in these matters. Unfortunately, we have to comply with a number of measures taken in this area, but we will continue to try to change things, as we have already done for a transitional measure.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-15-54-commissie-ic1015x.u3	Minister, thank you for that clarification. The timing being tight, knowing that a solution for a transition period has been planned can be reassuring. I have the feeling that since his inauguration the president has been pursuing a policy that is at least racist, misogynist and homophobic. Without being able to make it open-minded and tolerant, it is perhaps necessary to oppose it, calmly but firmly, our progressive values, as you have certainly done.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-15-54-commissie-ic1015x.u4	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dallemagne's 27587 is converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament 27676 by Mr Van Peteghem and 27681 by Mr Luykx are postponed at the request of both colleagues. Debates of the European Parliament Mr De Vriendt's 27688 was also converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-15-54-commissie-ic1015x.u5	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you, following the work of my predecessor and your former colleague, Stéphane Crusnière, about the segregation of the Métis in the former Belgian colonies. In March, the House adopted a resolution on the segregation of the Métis from Belgian colonization in Africa. A number of very concrete requests to the Government were made in this resolution. Minister, can you tell me more about the implementation of the measures announced by the executive in the various aspects covered? Since coordination with the federated authorities is necessary for the implementation of certain actions, have coordination meetings taken place or are they taking place for the time being?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-15-54-commissie-ic1015x.u6	Mr President, Mr Corthouts, several meetings have taken place between administrations and firms concerned but also with representatives of the Métis Association of Belgium to see how to implement this resolution point by point. The resolution contains two main types of recommendations. I am pleased to be able to announce concrete progress on both fronts. The first part deals with documentation issues but also with the historical study of responsibilities. My department will make available to the Archives of the Kingdom the sum of 400,000 euros to be spread over a period of four years under a convention signed at the end of last year with the Archives, on the one hand, with a view to creating a database and facilitating the provision of data and access to that information, and, on the other hand, to initiate, on the basis of this data, scientific research on the involvement of the Belgian political, administrative, judicial or religious authorities in the discrimination and forced abduction of Métis children in the Congo since 1908 or even 1885 and in the Ruanda-Urundi since 1917. The second part deals with matters of civil status and nationality. According to the information received at the working group meeting, this would be a few dozen cases. In this respect, the Association Métis de Belgique reported a list of grievances. Similarly, those concerned who encounter difficulties with their application for Belgian nationality are invited to submit their application individually to the point of contact to be established within the Justice FPS, provided that their request falls within the direct remit of the service concerned, and that it is supported by a relevant and complete file. The SPF Justice also proposes that the College of Attorneys General should be referred to it concerning possible difficulties which they would be aware of in the context of the individual proceedings under way. Depending on the problems identified, additional initiatives such as legislative changes may be considered. In both areas, consultations will be held with all stakeholders, as progress is made in the implementation of projects and in the monitoring of cases. In this context, contacts with federated entities can also be considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-15-54-commissie-ic1015x.u7	Minister, thank you for the progress that I think is positive. Perhaps I will come back to the subject at some point to find out how these elements are dealt with.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-15-54-commissie-ic1015x.u8	Minister, this question is dated November 22, 2018. On the evening of November 6, 2018, two bikers murdered Benjamin Ramos, a 56-year-old Philippine lawyer who dedicated his life to accompanying and defending popular organizations in their struggle for social justice. Beyond his work as a lawyer and his engagement with NUPL, the National Union of People's Lawyers, of which he was the general secretary in the province of Negros Occidental, Benjamin Ramos was also founder and director of the CEO organization. This organization, founded in 1987, is a partner of the Belgian NGO Quinoa, which aims to contribute to the development of rural communities in the province of Negros Occidental. "Who will defend the lawyers?", This is the legitimate question posed by NUPL in view of the context of repression and total impunity in which extrajudicial executions take place in the Philippines. Benjamin Ramos is indeed the 34th lawyer murdered since President Duterte came to power in June 2016. In Belgium, the associative movement is mobilizing against such abuses. For example, Stop the Killings, a human rights campaign launched by trade unions and non-governmental organizations, organized a protest campaign in Brussels on 10 December 2018 to demand justice for social and democratic rights activists, victims of threats, illegal arrests and political assassinations in countries such as Colombia, Guatemala and the Philippines. Minister, have you taken any initiatives at the national and international levels to get an impartial investigation into the assassination of Benjamin Ramos and to ensure the protection of other Philippine activists? If so, which ones? The German government, through its human rights delegate, publicly condemned the assassination. Did you do the same?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-15-54-commissie-ic1015x.u9	Mr President, I am embarrassed because I asked the question in writing and got an answer. I will have two answers, since the minister will answer Mr. Van Hees. Minister, the regime of the current President is at least as rotten and extremist as that of Communist Venezuela. The situation is extremely worrying. Even a senator elected Vice-President on behalf of the Liberal Party was imprisoned in that country. Welcome to the club, Mr. Van Hees! In this context, it is the thirty-fourth lawyer who has been murdered since President Duterte came to power, which is unfortunately not mentioned enough. This question is an opportunity to denounce, once again, this hallucinating state. The president does not hesitate to make statements to incite people to provoke clashes with certain citizens; that is unacceptable. Thank you, Minister, for your keen interest in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-15-54-commissie-ic1015x.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions about the murder of Benjamin Ramos. For many months now, I share your concern about the difficult conditions in which civil society in the Philippines must evolve. I attach great importance to the protection of human rights defenders. Unfortunately, I have to note that the frequency of information indicating concerns about the problematic working environment for our Belgian civil society actors and our partners in the Philippines is rapidly increasing. Although the working space of civil society in the Philippines is still relatively open and dynamic in comparison with some other Asian countries, it must be noted that the current government is less and less critical. We share our concerns with the Philippine authorities at various levels. At multilateral level, during the Universal Periodic Review of the Philippines in May 2017, Belgium urged the Filipino government to receive the special rapporteur on extrajudicial executions. Our country also sued the Filipino policy of extrajudicial executions twice in 2017 in the Human Rights Council. At European level, we regularly discuss with other EU Member States how to bring the deterioration of the human rights situation in the Philippines to the attention of the international community and how to draw the country's attention to its international obligations. On the specific case of Benjamin Ramos, the European Union delegation in Manila issued a statement on 9 November, strongly condemning his murder and calling on the Philippine authorities to identify and punish the perpetrators promptly. The Ambassador of Belgium also endorsed this statement. Finally, at the bilateral level, our country does not fail to raise the issue of human rights violations. We will do the same in this case. On 4 December, our collaborators participated in political consultations with the Philippine authorities and the European authorities in Manila and raised the issue of human rights violations and their consequences for the safety of the Filipino partners of Belgian NGOs active in the Philippines. We also discussed this issue with the Ambassador of the Philippines to Belgium. I can assure you that the need to protect human rights defenders and ensure that civil society actors can work in a safe environment is a constant focus of the Foreign Affairs Office and that we will therefore continue to monitor the situation in the Philippines closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-15-54-commissie-ic1015x.u11	Minister, thank you for your answer. I will just point out one point. I think the German government set the example with a public condemnation, and you could have followed it. You could have made a public statement yourself. It is obviously stronger than sharing this and that with the partners in the context of diplomatic ties. If you had made a clear public statement in the media, it would have been stronger.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-15-54-commissie-ic1015x.u12	There was an immediate statement by the European Union. I answered you. I thank you for considering that my voice would indeed have had more impact than a position taken by the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-15-54-commissie-ic1015x.u13	You couldn't help it. I think one doesn't stop the other. But you often tend to hide behind the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-15-54-commissie-ic1015x.u14	I do not think it can be said that the minister is hiding behind the European Union. On the contrary, it is often the driving force of the European Union. It's not the same angle of attack. In any case, sometimes some public statements, such as with regard to Venezuela, have absolutely no impact. So sometimes you have to know how to maneuver to get things. I want to say it. Minister, thank you for your answer. It is true that this is a country that is culturally close to us, since its conquest by the Spaniards in the 16th century. That's why he's called Philippines, by the way. In this context, unfortunately, we are far from the blessed period, the time of President Aquino, when things were changing positively. There is a clear sense that President Duterte is more in line with the populist or far-right leaders who are appearing all over the world.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-15-54-commissie-ic1015x.u15	Mr President, Minister, the whistleblowers are watchmen of democracy. Recent scandals – Dieselgate, LuxLeaks, Panama Papers or, in Belgium, the recent cases of Kazakhgate and Publifin-Nethys – revealed by whistleblowers, show that they play an important role in uncovering illegal activities that harm the public interest. However, they often pay very much, as the attacks, threats, disproportionate criminal proceedings, intimidation and murders against them reveal. Let's think of Edward Snowden, Antoine Deltour or some Belgian journalists as well. Alerters are still very unevenly protected in different countries. In Europe, some Member States have ambitious legislation (such as Ireland or France). Others, such as Belgium, have developed sectoral protections. Still others have no legislation. We are thinking, for example, of Hungary, which I imagine is not very favourable to this type of instrument. On 23 April 2018, the European Commission presented the Alert Launchers Directive. The European Parliament has already voted in favour of an ambitious and broad text, extending the scope not only to whistleblowers, but also to those who assist them; calling for the creation of an independent authority to advise whistleblowers; developing planned support and repairs. However, the text was not perfect, for example, the protection of NGOs had been excluded and a hierarchy between the channels of denunciation had been established. The whistleblower must first make an internal alert to the company, and then to an independent authority, before being able to address the public and the media. The European Council, in turn, is invited to take a decision on this text. On the basis of a legal opinion contradicting other pre-existing opinions, some Member States are trying to find a way to battle over the legal bases. They want a split of the text according to the sectors covered – one text for nuclear, another text for taxation, etc. This would mean resuming the legislative process between the Commission, Parliament and the Council; in a word, burying the prospect of an adoption of this directive before the elections in May 2019. A first technical meeting of the European Council under the Romanian Presidency was held on 9 January. COREPER is scheduled to meet on 16 January. Although it is not a decision-making body, this meeting is important, since it should, in particular, decide on the political orientation of this debate on the legal basis. Minister, my questions are as follows. What position will Belgium defend, at the COREPER meeting tomorrow, regarding the retention of a single text or its division? Moreover, particular concern: in its current form, the text threatens journalists' sources. With the exception of certain exceptional circumstances, whistleblowers wishing to denounce a fact would be forced to follow a hierarchy of the channels of denunciation that I have already mentioned. Does Belgium support this hierarchy of channels of denunciation? Do you have room for manoeuvre to prevent what might represent a holding-up on freedom of expression and the press? Finally, 32 associations and trade unions, including the Whistleblowing International Network, Greenpeace and Sherpa, launched a petition calling not to question the provisions of the Member States that would protect whistleblowers better than the Directive. Do you confirm, in principle, that each Member State would remain free to adopt more protective rules for whistleblowers in the event that it considers that the directive is insufficient?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-15-54-commissie-ic1015x.u16	Mr President, Mrs Waterschoot, the opinions of the legal services of the Commission and the Council differ as to the legal basis of this instrument. The Commission favours a horizontal approach by adopting a single legislative act, while the Council recommends dividing the Directive into five separate legislative acts, in particular as regards nuclear safety, competition and State aid, taxation and firearms. Following the recent coordination meetings of the Directorate-General for European Affairs, a consensus of all parties involved has emerged to prefer a single text including the activities of whistleblowers in all areas; that is what we are defending. The Commission sent the Member States a new version of its draft directive on Monday 14 January, which is currently under close scrutiny by our departments. The profession of journalist is subject to a more stringent specific protection which guarantees freedom of opinion and expression as well as freedom of the press. The Commission does not intend to regulate the work of journalists through its directive. Therefore, the scope of the Act does not have the object or effect of restricting the safeguards surrounding the work of journalists. Furthermore, with regard to infringement reporting procedures, the present text provides for a cascading procedure in which the whistleblower must have exhausted the means of internal reporting before using the external channel. Belgium advocates greater flexibility and would prefer that the whistleblower has a choice between internal and external channels. Finally, its protection will be ensured in the event that the denunciations are brought to the attention of the media, if it is shown that the internal or external report is unlikely to elicit a response. I can therefore confirm that each Member State retains the right to adopt more protective regulations for whistleblowers, if it considers it desirable. Similarly, the Directive does not preclude more effective protection schemes already in force, as set out in Article 19 of the current draft Directive.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-15-54-commissie-ic1015x.u17	Minister, thank you for your answers, some of which seem encouraging to me. Indeed, you indicate that a consensus has been reached on the drafting of a single text and that Belgium advocates for more flexibility in the system of cascade of reporting of infringements. On the other hand, I did not hear what was happening to the position that our country will defend in COREPER tomorrow. As far as the hierarchy of remedies is concerned, do you think that there is room for manoeuvre? I understand that Belgium would prefer that the whistleblower could choose the procedure to follow. Do you think you'll succeed? Am I anticipating the content of other meetings? In any case, I welcome the fact that, if Belgium considered certain protection mechanisms provided for in the directive to be too light, it could consider adopting better legislation. I am thinking in particular of journalists, because I am not reassured by your comments or by the text. Indeed, suppose that a lawsuit is brought against a whistleblower on the ground that he was not entitled to transmit such information to the media, the latter may be punished. I see a reaction on your face. Maybe I didn't get it right?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-15-54-commissie-ic1015x.u18	Mrs Waterschoot, you have understood the position we will take tomorrow in COREPER, since you are asking me if it will be successful. We ask for the approval of a single text, while leaving the choice to the whistleblower between internal and external procedures. As for whether we are going to convince our European partners, I can tell you that only after the meeting in COREPER. As I told you earlier, we are not always able to convince everyone of the validity of our position. With regard to the passage through the press, I have replied that the protection of the whistleblower will be ensured if the denunciations are made known to the media. To do this, it is of course important to demonstrate in the current text that the internal or external alert is unlikely to generate a response. But as we are to give him the choice between internal and external, the whistleblower can, in our view, opt directly for an external procedure. Having said that, I cannot now tell you what the final text of the directive will be and whether we will be followed by our European partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-15-54-commissie-ic1015x.u19	Minister, I understand you. My fears remain, but I support your position in the hope that Belgium will be heard.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-15-54-commissie-ic1015x.u20	Mr President, my questions deal with the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). The first refers specifically to the situation in Beni following the events of November and the loss of life of seven MONUSCO peacekeepers. Minister, how does the situation evolve in Beni in a specific way? How has this issue been addressed in the Security Council? My second question is a more general question about elections in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. On Thursday, 10 December, CENI announced the provisional results of the election. These results gave the victory to opponent Felix Tshisekedi, with one head ahead of Martin Fayulu, Joseph Kabila's dolphin having to settle for a third place, far from the other two. This result was immediately rejected by Mr Fayulu, who announced, with his compilation figures by hand, that he had won more than 60% of the vote. It was supported by the Catholic Church, through the Congolese National Episcopal Commission (CENCO), which questioned the official figures. On Friday, 11 January, the United Nations Security Council considered the matter. He heard the position of the bishops of CENCO and CENI. On Sunday, 13 January, following the submission of Mr Fayulu's appeal to the Constitutional Court against the results announced by CENI, the Southern African Development Community (SADC) advocated a recount of the votes which, according to that institution, would allow all the camps to be calmed down and give a real foundation and credibility to the new institutions. I read, about an hour ago, a new article that states that Mr. Fayulu is the winner of the election. Minister, can you summarize the discussions that have taken place on this subject in the Security Council? What was Belgium's position? Is the option of counting votes possible, according to the Congolese authorities? Do you have any information other than the information we received a few hours ago on this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-15-54-commissie-ic1015x.u21	Mr President, Minister, this question goes back, again, to some time. If you don't mind, I'm going to refresh it a little bit, taking into account the current situation. Indeed, my question was tabled before the elections and concerned the question of whether the continuation of sanctions against certain candidates did not constitute a form of interference by Belgium in the electoral process. Since then, the elections have been held. The provisional results of these elections are known. The Constitutional Court now has to rule on presidential challenges. As I said, the situation has changed, the elections have taken place, the candidate of power has not been elected. But your interference tends to continue. In fact, in your statements yesterday in the press, you ask for the publication of the minutes, which is a bit the same – you said – as a recount of the voices requested by some. As Mrs Grovonius said, as a first step, a request for a recount was made by the President of Zambia on behalf of the Southern African Development Community. But this statement was quickly corrected by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Zambia, who, like the South African government, has since insisted that the international community avoid interference in internal affairs and the conduct of the electoral process in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. I quote South Africa's fairly clear statement: "We call on the international community to respect these domestic legal processes and to refrain from prejudging the results. Any external interference in these sovereign processes could provoke violence and undermine the general peaceful climate that followed the elections." The text goes on to make it clear that we must not anticipate. I would also like to mention a debate in France on the same issue. Indeed, a few hours after the release of the results in the Congo, the French Foreign Minister questioned the provisional results announced. The newspaper Le Monde reacted by saying: "The head of French diplomacy was clumsy in this statement because he goes against the history and evolution of the African continent where Western interference and the judgments at the pluck are very badly perceived and belong to the past." Mr Minister, since bilateral relations between the Congo and Belgium are at a fairly low level, precisely because of a Belgian policy which, in the Congo, is considered to be interference, should we not refrain from increasing interference in the electoral process in the DRC, as South Africa proposes, especially from the former colonial power? On the other hand, if your view of foreign policy is definitely that of interference, can you tell us why it is not in favour of a number of other countries, including the State of Israel, where millions of Palestinians have lost their right to vote along with most of their other rights?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-15-54-commissie-ic1015x.u22	Mr President, Minister, I would like to follow up on the debate we have had in plenary on the situation in the Congo, which is extremely worrying. Clearly, the outcome of the elections, as announced by CENI, appears to be contrary to the many reports which continue to multiply and which merely confirm what many people have already known or are already predicting for a very long time, namely that these results have been manipulated. I cannot help but react to the intervention of my colleague, Marco Van Hees, because I really see, in this type of intervention, the difference between democratic parties and a populist party. Finally, Mr. Van Hees has nothing to do with the Congolese population, with its vote, with the will of the Congolese people to live in dignity, in truth and to try to finally have leaders who are in line with their wishes. It seeks above all to protect the powerful, the people who confiscated this election. He uses elements of language that we see today on the Internet and that are used by some people who go so far as to quote a journalist from the daily Le Monde as if it were the new Pythia in the matter of Congolese elections, as if we were waiting to know, from a certain journalist, what the outcome of the elections in the Congo was. I rely on the Congolese people, their representatives and, above all, their civil society, who fought to the end, who paid for their blood, Mr Van Hees, to achieve credible results and to whom this election is now confiscated. The reports are going to build up. You can deny the reality here, as you do in other situations. I see how much you have nothing to do with democracy, the truth and the Congolese people. I would like to take stock with you, Minister, of this sad and tragic development of events in the Congo.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-15-54-commissie-ic1015x.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for asking these questions about the situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. I would point out that we have been serving on the United Nations Security Council since the first January of this year. We therefore take part in briefings, in meetings which are not necessarily requested by Belgium, but which concern situations in different regions and countries of the world. Personally, I do not find it abnormal that some of the members of the Security Council are interested in the situation in the country where the largest United Nations peacekeeping operation is deployed to date. I will, of course, retain the comment on interference whenever I hear a question from Mr. Van Hees on one country or the other. Perhaps it will be easier to answer him that, in order to follow his wish, I prefer not to give him an answer and not to interfere. It's no use. This is also the difficulty for smaller and medium-sized countries like ours. We have a much broader foreign policy than very large countries like China, Russia or the United States! These countries have a much larger territory. Apart from this, I find it a bit special to consider that when we talk about a country in the Committee on External Relations, we commit a crime of interference. In this case, I believe that the house should be closed and I should be allowed to work outside of this debate. I will answer more seriously, because the situation is very specific, questions about the electoral process and European sanctions. I will then answer questions about the situation in Beni. I shall do so partly in both languages because there were many speakers who were scheduled in principle, but who could not be present with us or stay. With regard to the question concerning the possibility of financial aid through UNDP, I would advise you to contact my colleague, the Minister for Development Cooperation. That is a very specific point. With regard to the elections in the DRC, since November 2016 and the agreement of the Saint-Sylvestre of 31 December 2016, the Congolese people have been trying to hold inclusive, transparent, credible and peaceful elections. The holding of such elections in the Democratic Republic of the Congo was crucial. It is indeed an important trap not only in the process of consolidating the peace, security and sustainable and inclusive development of the Democratic Republic of the Congo but also in that of the whole region. It announced itself as a historic opportunity for the peaceful transfer of power. It could lead to this first peaceful transfer of power in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Despite the numerous organizational, logistical, political and security weaknesses and weaknesses that have tainted the inclusive, fair and transparent nature of the presidential, legislative and provincial elections of 30 December, the massive participation of the Congolese people in the elections has demonstrated how strong the Congolese will to make its voice heard was. We welcome the democratic commitment of the Congolese who voted calmly. This voice of a whole people must be heard and respected. I pay particular tribute to the people of Beni and Butembo who were excluded and who decided to organize a symbolic vote instead of resorting to violence. I also pay tribute to all the victims in the electoral context, because unfortunately there have been. Belgium took note of the provisional results of the presidential and provincial elections announced by the Independent National Electoral Commission on 10 January 2019, as well as the parliamentary elections announced last weekend. Together with our international partners, we look forward to clarification on the issues raised by some of the opposition and civil society regarding the electoral count. One step has been taken with this announcement of provisional results, but it is up to Congolese actors who have followed the electoral process closely to tell us whether the announced result is true to what has been observed and whether the compilation process has been carried out correctly. Belgium had associated itself with the numerous calls, in particular from the African Union Observer Mission and the Chairperson of the African Union Commission, for the official results to be consistent with the Congolese people's vote. In this context, we have taken note of the declaration of 10 January by CENCO, which accompanied the electoral process by a massive deployment of observers throughout the country, that "the data collected by their observation mission from polling stations and counting do not correspond to CENI data". The proclamation by CENI does not appear to reflect the results on the basis of the results of the polling stations in its possession. In the debate on Friday, 11 January, at the UN Security Council, Belgium, like its international partners, advocated above all for electoral transparency at all three levels: presidential, legislative and provincial. Only with maximum transparency can doubts be removed and tensions eased. Indeed, the message of the National Episcopal Conference of the Congo appeals to us. In order to ensure that the democratic choice of the Congolese population is respected, a discussion on the basis of facts and figures is necessary. In this regard, I note the recent statements by SADC, CIRGL, OIF and several countries in the region calling for a recount of the votes in the presidential election. It is in this sense that Martin Fayulu, the candidate of the opposition coalition Lamuka filed an appeal to the Constitutional Court on Saturday, January 12. He asked for a recount of the votes of each election. The European Union has requested the publication of the minutes of each local results compilation centre. Our country is calling for CENI to comply with its obligations in terms of transparency, as set out in its own electoral law. CENI is therefore expected to publish not only the results per polling station, but also the minutes of each local results compilation centre and ideally give access to neutral observers. We have also suggested that CENCO should share its findings and figures with the competent institutions to examine the dispute. Finally, we suggested that the national missions, the African Union and SADC, continue their observations during this crucial phase. In this phase of very high political and security tensions, Belgium joined the call of the Secretary-General of the United Nations and the President of the African Union to the main actors to refrain from violent acts. At the same time, we call on MONUSCO, mandated to protect civilians and support the implementation of the agreement of 31 December 2016 and the electoral process, to play its full role. With regard to the security of our citizens, Belgium has notably strengthened its arrangements in Congo-Brazzaville. We called our nationals to caution. It is in this sense that I asked the Belgians on the spot not to stay in the country, if there is no obligation to stay there. I am the situation with the two departments that I am responsible for on a daily basis. It is clear that the way in which this electoral process will take place in the coming days will largely determine the continuation of our bilateral relations, including consideration of the question of the possible return of an ambassador to Kinshasa. I would also like to add that we have been following the whole process for more than two years behind schedule to organise the elections, including the following: - the impossibility of a number of potential candidates to run; - the impossibility of a number of voters to vote – I recalled the situation in some cities; - Internet shutdown and the impossibility of texting; - the inability of international observers to be present on the spot, with the exception of a few observers from the African Union and SADC; - the ban on journalists' teams, numerous international media, including Belgian journalists, from being present in the territory of the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Despite this, I have told you that we must salute the way in which the people wanted to express themselves by participating massively in these elections in a complicated framework. With regard to European sanctions, in 2016 and 2017, the European Union took the decision to punish a number of officials of the Democratic Republic of the Congo occupying responsibilities within the army, intelligence services, police and security services or the government, for contributing to acts constituting serious human rights violations in the DRC or for obstructing a consensual and peaceful solution for the holding of elections in the DRC, in particular through acts of violence, repression or incitement to violence or actions infringing the rule of law. On 10 December 2018, the Council of the European Union extended the restrictive measures against fourteen persons in the DRC until 12 December 2019. In its conclusions, the Council reaffirms the importance of holding credible and inclusive elections, respecting the aspirations of the Congolese people to elect their representatives. It was following the elections and on the basis of their smooth running that the Council planned to review the restrictive measures and possibly adapt them accordingly. On the situation in Beni, in its statement at the Security Council last Friday, Belgium recalled that electoral developments should not conceal the other challenges facing the Congolese people, including humanitarian challenges and health challenges, such as ebola and security. This is particularly the case in the region of Beni in North Kivu, where insecurity not only complicates the movements of the humanitarian workers responsible for the Ebola response, but also causes movements of the population. Numerous reports indicate that the security situation in eastern DRC, in particular in the Beni region, remains highly unstable despite some decline in the activities of armed groups during the electoral period, prior to the elections of 30 December 2018. Since then, several ADF attacks have been reported, involving several victims on the side of the population and the army. In conclusion, we continue to follow very closely, with our African, European and United Nations partners, the situation in all its aspects, but always with a view to remaining in solidarity with the Congolese people. As I mentioned in the plenary meeting, I believe it is important to pay attention to the fact that it is first and foremost the Congolese and Congolese themselves, and Congolese civil society, and Congolese institutions, to decide on the credibility of the vote and the announced results. I would remind you that this is not only a question of presidential elections, but also of legislative and provincial elections. Depending on this response, it is up to the international community, but first and foremost the region, to express its views as well, as in many other parts of the world. What we are doing is that we are trying to develop, from Belgium, a common response from the European Union, in consultation with a number of partners, including the United States in the United Nations Security Council, but also with the African Union and a number of partners in the region. SADC also spoke. We have had contacts with various Congolese candidates and actors. I think it is not abnormal in an electoral process to want transparency on the publication of results. A great deal of information is being published by the media about what happened in the Democratic Republic of the Congo in the days following the elections. For my part, to date, my position remains to request the full reopening of the Internet and the access of all international observers to the Democratic Republic of the Congo. It is not normal that there should be such a long closure of public space. But, of course, I appeal, as we have done, above all for transparency. There was just a lot of hesitation about the idea of recounting. I did not call for a recount as such. Indeed, the first thing we are asking for is the communication of the minutes giving the results in each office. This will simply make it possible to see whether this compilation of the minutes of the results in all the offices corresponds to what CENI has announced to us or rather corresponds to what other actors, political actors or members of civil society have themselves announced. If there is any doubt, then the question of a recount by CENI will arise. For the time being, the only request has been for transparency. I stress the call that many of us make to maintain a non-violent situation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. It is important that all internal procedures play their full role and that our demand – which is not only expressed by our country, because it is coordinated – is respected, transparency in the communication of results. I have said this on several occasions, but I do not remember if I repeated it in plenary session: the normal process is to organise elections, publish the results and finally negotiate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-15-54-commissie-ic1015x.u24	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-15-54-commissie-ic1015x.u25	Minister, I will quote the title of an article in L'Avenir du 14 janvier: "Elections in the DRC: Didier Reynders proposes a recount." When we read the article, we see a small shade.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-15-54-commissie-ic1015x.u26	Mr Van Hees, in a country like ours, unlike some of which you dream, I do not yet decide on the titles used by the press.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-15-54-commissie-ic1015x.u27	I know it, having myself noticed it several times. In short, when one goes through the article, one reads that one must proceed "to the publication of the minutes"; which means "almost the same as a recount". These are your comments, if the journalist transcribed them correctly. In any case, I find that no prognosis made by large Western voices has been confirmed. According to them, no election would ever be held in Congo, Kabila would never leave and impose his candidate. None of this has happened.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-15-54-commissie-ic1015x.u28	You had to say it! You really have to be captivated!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-15-54-commissie-ic1015x.u29	That's true!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-15-54-commissie-ic1015x.u30	No, of course not!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-15-54-commissie-ic1015x.u31	It is clear that what I am going to call the "club of Western interference" to which you belong, Minister, is not content with this, despite everything that has been achieved in a process, it is true, long and painful. This club of Western interference wants its candidate to be the president: the man of Exxon Mobil, the man of the multinationals – a common point with you, Mr Reynders – the man who, the day after the vote, in the absence of results, already announced that the legislation would soften for the companies that exploit the Congo ore. It is obviously the man who must be taken to the presidency in Congo, at all costs. Clearly, there is a whole group of politicians – I have the impression that you are – who believe that it is this man who must be President of the Congo. At least one thing must be left to you, Minister, from the time you invented the notional interests to your interventionism in the Congo today, you are showing the same political continuity by always putting yourself on the side of multinationals and their interests!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-15-54-commissie-ic1015x.u32	Mr. Minister of Foreign Affairs, I think you are very careful. We know your brand name. What is tragic in this story is not political alternation, contrary to what Mr. Van Hees claims, or what he claims to believe, because he knows it very well. It's not the political alternation. It is, of course, the maintenance of the previous regime that is in the process of being set up, with a tragic setting. But it is certainly the continuation of a kleptoman diet, which will crush its population. These are your friends, Mr. Van Hees! I found in the elements of your language what I sometimes get on social networks. That is what is being set up in the Congo. The Congolese people really believed it, they fought, they wanted it, they set up a system of monitoring, control, and they photographed all the reports of the polling stations. It's tragic for her. This control system is in place. It shows that there is immense manipulation and that it is the greatest electoral holding-up of the century, the one you approve and acclaim! It is tragic for the Congolese people who could remain as miserable, and see their fundamental freedoms trampled as before. With an extraordinary precedent. At a time when we have the means to know the information, we manage to spread fake news, counter-truths, and try to make them known as the truth. Minister, I have heard that our bilateral relations would depend on the evolution of the publication of the results, but I am concerned. This regime has demonstrated, for years, that it would go into force no matter what the cost to the Congolese population. We must therefore expect a crisis to take place in order to last. Our role as democrats, because we want every human being to be able to live in dignity – even if he is Congolese, Mr Van Hees – is to ensure that the voice of this Congolese people can be expressed and that the truth is established. Of course, this is not interference. Those who cry out for interference want the Congolese people to continue to live miserablely in a dictatorship and to turn away from what is happening there.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-15-54-commissie-ic1015x.u33	Minister, the museum in Tervueren reopened a few weeks ago. Although the museum's officials were positioned for a critical reading of colonial history, it remained that about 75 per cent of its heritage (or 180,000 pieces), essentially ethnographic, was formed during this colonial period. Mr Minister, in the wake of France's work on the same subject, what do you think about setting up an interdisciplinary and inter-federal working group and/or organising an international conference on these issues to advance the debate, reflection and avenues for solution? If so, how, how and when?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-15-54-commissie-ic1015x.u34	Mrs Grovonius, the reopening of the African Museum in Tervueren on 8 December 2018 allowed my colleague Alexander De Croo to recall in his speech that the question of restitution must no longer be a taboo and that Africa must be able to have better access to the collections of African art and historical objects. This reopening took place in the presence of many African experts and partners. During my speech on 19 September at the closing moment of the conference "Sharing the Past and the Future: tightening African-European Connections," I said that we shared a cultural heritage with the countries of Central Africa, that we had to learn to understand it better and let it come true, and I was pleased that the efforts of the new African Museum were in this direction. I added that a démarche could consist in giving back an African artwork that has been in Belgian possession since the colonial period and that the return could take various forms, from the simple physical restitution through the lending of travelling exhibitions to the reproduction of works of art or archives. It is in that context that Deputy Prime Minister De Croo has decided to finance the digitisation of the Rwandan archives of the colonial period, so that they are made available to Rwanda. The digitization and sharing of foreign affairs archives is a separate issue from the return of works or archives from federal scientific institutions. With regard to this question and the question of human remains in Belgian museums, I suggest that the question be put directly to my colleague, Mrs Wilmès, who is now in charge of scientific policy and who exercises oversight over federal scientific institutions. The possibility of setting up a federal working group to further explore the issue of restitution was raised. This idea or that of a scientific committee, which has also been mentioned, seems to me to be one of the possibilities that we should be able to retain. I am prepared to respond to any invitation to consider the establishment, composition and functioning of any proposed mechanism. Of course, the current business environment will have to be taken into account, as in many other cases. Then, the President of the French Republic, Emmanuel Macron, recently proposed to bring together all the African and European partners in Paris to address this issue. Belgium will be happy to take part in these discussions. I repeat that before the reopening of the Central African Museum, we had already organized this meeting at the Royal Library with a number of experts in September. I'm staying on that same line. We must be able to discuss, with our European colleagues as well as with our African colleagues, the many possibilities that exist to go from physical restitution in a number of cases to the organisation of exhibitions, of partnerships between museums – which is a possibility we have mentioned – and even the provision of digitised copies, in particular of a number of scientific archives or archives of foreign affairs, this last element, as I said, of another debate.
