ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic021x.u1	As you were informed, the questions to Minister Beke lapse. Around 1:00 p.m. the answers were sent to you by e-mail.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic021x.u2	Minister, we could all read in the newspapers that this country is a bit surreal. The VRT described it as an episode of The Ideal World in which we ended up. We're in first place again. This country was once the first country to be sentenced to pay compensation to the European Commission for an amount of EUR 5,000 per day. That's a nice amount of money. With that I can buy my wife a beautiful diamond ring in Antwerp and I could even do it every day. I believe that we are already at an amount of EUR 400,000 or more. That's surreal because it's actually money thrown away. It is an EU directive, which should have been transposed into a decree purely administratively. What's it about? It concerns Directive 2014/61/EU, 2014 before the date when we already know that it needs to be transposed. Officially, that was due by 1 January 2016. It is almost 2020 and the directive has still not been transposed. The Directive concerns the right of a telecom operator to visit if infrastructure works are in progress in a street, to see if they can also use them to lay their own cables and network infrastructure. Brussels says that this is not a regional matter, but a federal one and that it will not therefore transpose that directive. Wallonia and Flanders also initially had a number of questions, which they had sent to the BIPT and to members of your ministry. They have learned that the directive needs to be transposed at regional level. Minister, when was the first time you were informed that Brussels would not transpose that directive? Was that decision also legally justified? When and at what point was the BIPT called in to play some kind of referee, to draw up an opinion on it and to deliver it to Brussels? Have we already paid part of that 5,000 euros a day? If so, how many? When was the last time they paid? If no, when do you intend to pay, or is an appeal filed? What will Brussels itself do? After all, we can decide whether to pay or not, but we do not want the amount to increase further. Today we are talking about 400,000 euros. If we discuss this again in three months' time, we will be at 600,000 or 700,000 euros. What will Brussels do, and when? Are you aware of that? Finally, it would be nice and collegial if Brussels were to pay that invoice itself. That is difficult to enforce, but perhaps you can ask Brussels that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic021x.u3	Mr Freilich, on 11 April the Advocate General of the Court of Justice failed to deliver his Opinion in Brussels. On 12 April we contacted the Brussels Government on this matter. At that time they informed us that they were of their opinion and that the transposition of Article 4 still concerns a federal residual power. Despite the ruling, they thus maintained their interpretation. There was no legal or other justification for this. They thought this was just the way it was. End of discussion. On 13 April, my predecessor asked for an opinion from the BIPT. The BIPT has made it very clear that it is actually about obligations that lie with Brussels network operators: Sibelga, STIB and the municipal sewer manager must allow telecom operators to carry out those inspections. Because Flanders and Wallonia are already doing so, there is no reason why Brussels would not do so. We have therefore called once again for this legislation to be transposed, and it is best to do so as soon as possible. That conviction has imposed periodic penalty payments, but they have not yet been paid. That usually happens six months after a verdict. One should not make a bank transfer every day. It's done in blocks. The arrangement within the federal system shall apply to the entity responsible for the periodic penalty payments imposed which must also be paid. It is quite clear that they will be recovered where they had to be paid. In the meantime, we have held further consultations. Prime Minister Rudy Vervoort publicly promised on 21 September that a solution would soon be presented in the Brussels Parliament. So people have changed their minds. It is a good thing that this position has been changed. The draft decree is on the agenda of the Brussels Commission for Infrastructure and is expected to be adopted at the next plenary session on Friday 11 October. That will be dealt with and that will be the end of the discussion. We have always urged the Brussels Government to change its position on this matter. I am glad that it has finally been understood and that we are done with this discussion. It is clear that Brussels takes responsibility for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic021x.u4	Do I understand correctly that the federal government will indeed send the invoice to Brussels and that Brussels will agree to its payment?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic021x.u5	The conversion has now taken place and then it will have to be established whether the periodic penalty payments are actually paid by the entity that caused the debt.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic021x.u6	The current Brussels government is clearly better than the previous one. They're people of common sense.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic021x.u7	My questions arise from an incident abroad, in which a kidnapped person tried to contact an emergency service four times but could not be located. According to the European Court, in accordance with the Universal Service Directive, telecom companies should always make caller localisation data available to emergency services, in so far as it is technically feasible. The same applies to calls from a mobile phone without a SIM card. This should make it possible to locate people in distress, even if the emergency number 112 is called with a phone without a SIM card. Firstly, has the Universal Service Directive been transposed into its own legislation? If not, why didn't that happen? Secondly, can you confirm that the Belgian telecom operators act according to the instructions of the European Court and, as far as it is technically possible, always provide the information necessary to locate persons in need? Thirdly, will you, if necessary, encourage Belgian telecom operators to act in accordance with the ruling of the European Court and, if necessary, impose sanctions in the event of non-compliance with the directive? Fourthly, can telecom companies be held liable for any consequences if the location of a person in distress cannot be determined by the failure of the companies to act in accordance with the European Court's ruling? What if a person makes an emergency call, but isn't located, and that person dies because the emergency services can't get to the scene?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic021x.u8	Thank you for your question. I can confirm that, to the extent technically feasible, telecom operators provide the necessary information to locate people in distress. I would remind you that the Member States have the choice whether or not to allow emergency calls without a SIM card. Calls without a SIM card cannot be made in Belgium. That choice was made at the request of the emergency services, to counter malicious or malicious calls. If Member States choose to do so, these calls should also be localised. If an emergency call cannot be made in Belgium via the network of the caller's operator, for example if it concerns someone from abroad or if Belgians call 112 in an area where their operator would not provide cover, then the emergency call will be made via the network of another operator who would provide cover. In such a case, it is not always possible to locate the caller for technical reasons. This situation is also known by ASTRID and is discussed. It is now being examined with the telecom operators how this problem can be technically solved. The obligation to provide the localisation data was already regulated by the 2005 law. The BIPT ensures that the law is applied effectively. If an operator fails to comply with the obligations laid down in the law, the BIPT may effectively impose sanctions. Beyond that, ordinary liability law applies, if there is a problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic021x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for the explanation. I am pleased that the necessary steps are being taken in Belgium, so that people can be located, which apparently is not always the case in other countries.
