ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u2	By message of September 18, 2019, the Raad van de Vlaamse Gemeenschapscommissie announces that it was constituted in its session today. By letter dated 18 September 2019, the Council of the Flemish Community Commission informed us that it had been declared legal and complete at that day's meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u3	The President [[in front of the assembly standing]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u4	[[for the standing meeting]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, José Desmarets, Honorary Vice-President of the House, died on 8 August at the age of 93 in Uccle. José Desmarets was the son of a Schaerbeekian pastry chef. As a young student, he took part in the resistance against the Nazi occupier and hosted a Moldovan Jew hunted by the Gestapo. For this action he, like his father, received the Yad Vashem distinction of ‘Just among the Nations'. Shortly after the Second World War, José Desmarets obtained the diplomas of Doctor of Law and Bachelor of Political and Social Sciences at the Catholic University of Leuven. He became legal adviser and then director of the newspaper La Cité. From 1959 to 1988, José Desmarets was a city council member in Uccle. During those thirty years he held three ships' mandates. From November 1971 to October 1985, José Desmarets was stationed in the Chamber for the PSC. He was a very active member of, among other things, the Finance, Public Works and Middle Classes committees. From 1974 to 1979 he also served as chairman of the PSC group. In 1980-1981, José Desmarets was successively Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of National Defence, Minister of Planning and Scientific Management and, finally, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Middle Classes and Planning, in the governments of Martens II, Martens III and Martens IV, and in the government of Eyskens. In October 1985, José Desmarets passed from the House to the Senate, where he completed his national political career two years later. Colleagues, José Desmarets has marked political life not only by his powerful labour force but also by his humanist commitment since his early childhood. On behalf of the House, I offered our deepest condolences to his four children and his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, José Desmarets, born in Schaerbeek on 16 September 1925, died in Uccle on 8 August 2019. He obtained a doctorate in law and a license in political and social sciences at the Université Catholique de Louvain. Within the state, José Desmarets held senior positions, notably as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of National Defence in 1979 and 1980, as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Planning and Scientific Management in 1980, and as Minister of Middle Classes in 1980 and 1981. He was also a communal councillor in Uccle, Honorary Vice-President of the House of Representatives, where he sat for the PSC. José Desmarets has always fought for the fight against extremists as a resistance fighter against Nazism and communism when he became director of the newspaper La Cité. In addition, he had also volunteered as a war volunteer. José Desmarets profoundly marked Belgian politics by his humanist commitment. On behalf of the government, we extend our deepest condolences to her four children and her family.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u6	May I invite the Chamber to observe a few moments of restraint?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u7	The President [[in front of the assembly standing]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u8	[[for the standing meeting]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Luc Gustin, an honorary member of our assembly, died on 12 August in Burdinne at the age of 68. After his training as a regent, Luc Gustin became a teacher in secondary education, then an educational inspector – a profession that, in the opinion of his colleagues, he exercised with great commitment. Politics was his other passion, first and foremost at the local level. Thus, in January 1983, Luc Gustin became a communal councillor in Burdinne and, in the immediate aftermath, also a mayor of his commune, a mandate which he continuously exercised until his premature death. As Deputy Head of Cabinet of Minister Pierre Hazette, Luc Gustin put his shoulders under a series of educational reforms in the French Community from 1999 to 2004. During that period he also participated fully in the conversion of the PRL to the MR, and took over with great enthusiasm the presidency of the MR federation of the Hoei-Borgworm arrondissement. From July 2004 to May 2019, Luc Gustin was a member of the House almost without interruption. Without ever losing sight of the interests of his commune, Luc Gustin devoted himself to his parliamentary mandate with great dedication. He was a highly appreciated member of the Committees on External Relations, Finance and Budget, Public Health and the Committee on Infrastructure, where he had ample opportunity to draw attention to the specific needs of rural communities. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we will remember Luc Gustin as a thoughtful man and a caring colleague, respectful of everyone and tirelessly seeking compromise. On behalf of the House, I extended our deepest condolences to his wife Paule and his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 12 August, Luc Gustin left us as a result of a long illness. Personally, he's a friend with a brilliant political career that I lost. His death affects not only his family, but also all the citizens of Burdinne. Last year he won for the seventh time mayorship in his congregation, where he devoted himself continuously for 35 years to his fellow citizens with extraordinary work. Very appreciated by all, he was listening, had a sense of compromise, a great professional conscience and showed kindness and respect in all respects. He was also a convinced Liberal, who helped strengthen the Liberal presence in his commune and province. His work with the Minister of Education Pierre Hazette, his tenure as president of the federation of the MR of Huy-Waremme and his accession to the position of Member of Parliament – a position he exercised with great commitment – attest to a very strong political investment. It is a huge loss, not only for the citizens of Burdinne and the liberal party, but especially for his family, his wife Paule, his son Gilles and his grandchildren. It is important to remember the man he has been: his warmth, his strength of conviction, his availability, his political fervour and his friendship will be lacking to all. On behalf of the government, we extend our deepest condolences to his wife Paule, his son Gilles and all members of his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u10	Thank you. I invite the Chamber to observe a moment of silence.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u11	Mr President, Mr Justice Minister, as you know, there are many scandals at present, particularly in the Liège region. Public agents now allow themselves to sell to themselves, for a symbolic euro, companies that we have all paid for. This is outrageous, especially as they do so to make even more money on the back of the community. That's amazing! And the person at the heart of all this canvas, of this mixture of private and public interests, is Mr. Stéphane Moreau. Ah! Stéphane Moreau, who is also being prosecuted by the Public Prosecutor's Office on four counts which I, ladies and gentlemen, allow myself to cite: the misappropriation of public goods for personal use, forgery in writing, abuse of social property, suspicious banking operations and fictitious jobs. That's a lot, Minister! We learned last week, ladies and gentlemen, that not only did Mr Stéphane Moreau buy back our public companies, but he also bought back his trials through a criminal transaction that allowed him to escape the trials by paying a transaction to the prosecutor's office. Minister, do you intend to intervene in this criminal transaction? Don't tell me you can't do anything! In December 2018, you co-signed with the College of Attorneys General – so it is not just the Attorneys General – very clear criteria that exclude the possibility of offering a criminal transaction. I remind you, minister, since you have signed them yourself: the seriousness of the facts (will you dare say here that there is no seriousness of the facts?); relevant history (is there not a significant history?); and the absence of a serious challenge to the facts. Minister, it is clear that the criminal transaction does not lend itself to this type of act today. You have to step in. I look forward to your reaction.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u12	I now give the floor to Mr Dedecker, not for his maiden speech, but for his first question in this legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u13	Mr President, I am going back in time, hence the maiden speech. We're talking about 2014. In 2014, Electrawinds' white-collar criminals published the books. A hundred and forty million euros of subsidies from our governments were blown into the wind and thrown into the sea. One may wonder how 140 million is actually obtained, but that is not difficult when one has a minister as chairman of the board of directors. Mr De Vriendt could confirm that while looking at me. What happens next? Once the books have been deposited, the court of commerce will request the list of creditors. There are many privileged creditors, particularly, of course, the public undertakings concerned. It concerns the FPIM, the PMV, the GIMV, Belfius and so on. To the extent of disaster, they then renounce their privileged creditor position. It's bought by Tecteo. That changes the name after that. As you know, if you want to hide something, you have to change your name. One becomes Publifin, Nethys or something. Why did that happen? So it would stay in the socialist family. There was also a cooperative involved at the time, Groenkracht, in which the minister also had some shares. They were going to exempt those 4,000 co-operatives, they were going to be repaid. Five years later, however, nothing has happened. So Tecteo took over the case. I don't understand. They buy those crown jewels, those offshore wind farms, for zero euros. Something that has a value of EUR 700 million is sold to Ardentia for zero, only for the debt position. Unbelievable, but true. Mr Justice Minister, I would like to clarify why I am asking you to do so. Those wind farms are cash cows, two thirds of turnover comes from green electricity certificates. The Flemish government is initiating a legal procedure to recover from Elicio, the former Electrawinds, the investment aid to Electrawinds. Will the federal government carry out a similar procedure to recover the investments? In particular, are EUR 32.5 million from the FPIM and EUR 12 million from Belfius? Is the agreement of the Commercial Court respected when buying Ardentia, so that the 4,000 cooperative investors who invested 16 million in Electrawinds are not left in the cold?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that you have both exceeded your speaking time. Mr Dedecker, you're new here, so you don't know that yet. You have two minutes' speaking time. I give the floor to Minister None for his answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your question. You know that the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber provide that I cannot deal with the content of individual legal matters. So I will answer as pertinently as possible in general. Mr Dedecker, allow me to say that I will check whether the Belgian Government, however, you know that I am not only competent to do so in the dossier, but I must take the same attitude as the Flemish Government. I'll study the file. Mr Hedebouw, as far as the extended criminal transaction is concerned, you know that in the last parliamentary term we have reviewed legislation on three specific points. First, the expanded transaction will now be mentioned in the criminal record. Secondly, it is important to clarify that a transaction is no longer possible after a trial judgement. Finally, the judge will have the duty to assess the proportionality of the transaction by virtue of a decision of the Constitutional Court in this regard. This means that we have made the criminal transaction more complex, that we have made it subject to more conditions, but that, with a democratic parliamentary majority, we have decided to maintain this extended criminal transaction for good causes, on which I will not return. Maybe you expect me to issue an injunction. However, you should be aware that the injunction is only intended to compel the prosecution, which it has done in this case. This is precisely the purpose of the extended criminal transaction: to be able to prosecute, and even after such an investigation, to still be able to compromise. Once the prosecutor's decision has been rendered, it is the prosecutor's decision. The autonomy of the public prosecutor's office, also in relation to the criminal transaction, is total and fixed by the Constitution. The prosecutor's office is independent, it is the prosecutor who decides whether there will be amicable settlement, a criminal transaction or a heavier sentence. Finally, Mr Hedebouw, I have one important last point that people need to be aware of. Apart from any specific case, the civil parties and the tax authorities must be fully compensated before a penalty transaction can be concluded. So it is only about reducing the criminal consequences. The civil parties and the tax authorities must be fully compensated. The College of Attorneys-General insists that it informs that by the end of 2019 it will make available the statistical data on the transactions concluded in 2018. I thank you, but once again, I cannot intervene in this, not because I do not have the right to insert, but because the right to insert occurs at an earlier stage of the procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u16	Of course, Minister, it is not true that you cannot act. In certain cases, the Minister has acted even after the instruction, even after the assessment itself, for example in the Nihoul case... In the Nihoul case or in connection with the Rwandan genocide, at some point there were interventions. Therefore, do not just say that it is not possible to intervene! In addition, you have intervened with the College of Attorneys General by establishing criteria. I ask you if the gravity of the facts test applies. If a public trial takes place, through the person of Stéphane Moreau, who is not a case like so many others, mechanisms will be clearly implemented, mechanisms of protection that divert the public good. That is the problem, Minister. Finally, these criminal transactions, you write it black and white in your text, are addressed only to people who have money. You yourself say that the suspect's precarious financial situation could play a role in his or her referral to a judge. Someone who took two muffins in a six-month suspended prison bin and Stéphane Moreau, who won millions thanks to the public authorities, bought his trial. That's disgusting!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u17	Minister, I cannot thank you for the answer, because I have not received an answer. You just didn't say anything. You said: I will check whether the Flemish Government is claiming this and whether we can do so. We're five years after the facts. You don't have to hide behind your gown, I'm asking the government. We are five years after the facts and we have been swindled for 140 million euros. Now that is sold to Ardentia and we are being swindled for EUR 700 million. One can still deduct the damage, the EUR 265 million accounts, but we are still at EUR 400 million. Then you'll say, mothered to death, that you'll see what you can do five years after the facts. There are 4,000 people in the green cooperative, they've been swindled. What are you doing? You don't answer, not even in the name of the government. I find that embarrassing, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u18	Minister, the army has existential problems. "We're in deep shit." Those are not my words, but those of the head of the Belgian army. He calls with that cry man and horse and no longer conceals the difficult situation of Defense in this country. As the future head of the transition team that Defense has to take to a higher level in Belgium, he of course exposes the pain points. That's a lot of stuff. Of course, 30 years of disinvestment make itself felt on the ground. Firstly, in terms of staff, a very important part of the current situation. In the coming years, the army will lose almost 40% of its staff, only through retirements. Secondly, in the area of investment, for example, for payments of equipment. Thirdly, with regard to infrastructure, which has in many cases been worn down to the wire. In these circumstances, Minister, it is not surprising that it is extremely difficult to recruit young people and to enthuse them to join the army. I say immediately that it is the top priority of this government in current affairs or of Defence in general. Minister, if you do not want operations to be compromised and if the personnel situation needs to change thoroughly, what is your response as outgoing Secretary of Defense to that emergency call from the General Staff? What can or will you, or your successor soon, do within your term of office to stop the drain within the Defense Department and facilitate new recruitments?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a while ago we in the government decided on the 2030 vision for defence. On that basis, an investment programme of EUR 9.2 billion was established, replacing a number of elements in the various powers of our army. It is true that there is a problem, because more and more people will retire. In 2019, 2020 and 2021 alone, more than 4,500 people are involved. So a lot of new decisions will have to be made at the Department of Defense. Perhaps there should be more civilian staff first in order to carry out a number of tasks. It is also possible that we have already started to outsource a number of tasks. After that there are also many recruitments needed, perhaps a ten thousand in the next five years. For some very attractive functions we also want to recruit more women. We want more women in our defense compared to the current situation. A transition team was therefore very useful to identify the additional investments needed in the various bases and barracks and to make proposals on recruitment. Let me give just one example: we must create training centres at provincial level. They must be as close to the labour market as possible. That will be the case. I've had a lot of contact with General Thys. I may not use the same words, we may not have the same style, but I believe that we are working very well together in terms of transition and investment. Now there will also be a staff policy with many recruitments in the following years.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u20	Thank you, Minister, for pointing out a number of measures that have been taken in the past and are now being implemented by the transition team. I am sure that you and your predecessors have been working too hard in the past on patching up and on ad hoc measures and too little with a long-term vision of Defence. Ultimately, we are talking about nothing more or less than respect for our military, that day out, year out, ready to guarantee our and your safety. It is also a question of credibility. If you or your successors want to get down to business and support Defence in the challenges ahead, and if you want to guarantee military strength, please give our military the respect they deserve.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u21	That was immediately Mr Ponthier's maiden speech. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u22	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u23	Not your maiden speech? You said you did. Yet in this legislature. So you were looking for a round of applause when you told me you were. This is what you have been given.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u24	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we may all know that it is difficult at present to recruit enough people for our police areas. It is difficult to make such a job attractive and yet we must do so, including through a raise. We read today in the newspapers that there has been no consultation with local authorities, that the bill is largely passed on to them and that the Union of Walloon Cities and Municipalities and the Brussels mayors are also going to the Council of State to do so. The Open Vld does not welcome that at all. There is absolutely a need for political consultation and the issue should be included in the next government agreement. Minister, I have three questions for you. First of all, is it true that the municipalities and the cities did not sit around the table? Secondly, is the budget for the next legislative term EUR 114 million? Thirdly, do you share my view that there should be no political hacking or legal jousting on this point and that, after consultation, the subject should be included in the next coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u25	Mrs Verhaert, thank you for your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u26	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you about the same subject that my colleague has just mentioned. This is an agreement that was negotiated by your predecessor in 2018. With the Reform Movement, we fought for it. We believe that it is necessary to revalue the financial status of our police officers. They must be given a complementary motivation. That's what we did. The royal decree providing for this baraemic upgrading came into force in June 2019. However, we face serious problems. We also carry out municipal responsibilities and work with police areas. The distribution of the financial burden is problematic. Some estimates of the additional costs for local authorities have been made. For Brulocalis, we are talking about an additional cost of 114 million euros for the period between 2019 and 2023, and then 40 million more for the following years. My questions are simple, minister. How will we find an agreement to help our communities finance this measure? How will the federal state commit itself? Are you open to proposals?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u27	Mr President, Mr Verhaert, Mr Jadin, here are my answers to the questions put. The sectoral agreement implements the government agreement, which suggests that the police status should be modernised and simplified. It was therefore one of my priorities during this particular period to implement the sectoral agreement. This was done by Royal Decree of 20 June 2019. The agreement was concluded with the trade unions in May 2018. It involves a wage adjustment, which was implemented because the scales of the police operational framework have not evolved since the 2001 reform, as opposed to those of the federal public office. Significant differences were also observed in the CALog staff with similar positions in the federal public office. The agreement therefore meets these differences, for the sake of clarity, by introducing a wage adjustment. Dear colleagues, the sectoral agreement entered into force on 1 July, and its implementation will continue on a step-by-step basis. It provides for a salary correction for police inspectors as well as the phasing out of eighteen allowances and functional allowances. I insist that they no longer exist. The salary correction for the Senior Inspectors and Level B CALOGs will follow in 2020. The meal vouchers will be introduced from 2022 onwards. During the sectoral negotiations, the associations of Flemish, Walloon and Brussels towns and municipalities were invited to the negotiating committee as well as to all technical meetings with representative trade union organisations. In addition, all preparatory meetings were organized in a spirit of active collaboration with representatives of the Standing Commission on Local Police, which provided liaison between the administration and the local police. The Council of Mayors has already delivered a favourable opinion, I insist, on 14 February 2018. Since then, it has been continuously involved in the work, through the integrated police consultation platforms. In response to Mrs Verhaert's question, I would add that for the police zones for 2019, an amount of EUR 4.5 million has been entered in the federal government budget as a contribution to the additional costs associated with the implementation of the sectoral agreement. The actual extra cost for 2019 is 8.5 million for the local police. These additional costs will indeed increase significantly afterwards, i.e. by 140 million from 2020 to 2024, i.e. by a five-year period. Ladies, I've come to your final questions. I am very well aware, including as mayor, of the financial burden of the operation of the integrated police for the cities and municipalities. The financing system of the integrated police is indeed in need of modernisation and simplification. It is not the first time that this has been said, because it has already been part of several and distinct declarations of government. That is why the next government, in full power, has a particularly important role to play in this. In any case, I will accept all my responsibility to bring it to a successful conclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u28	Mr Minister, the briefness I regularly appeal to Members of Parliament also applies to the government, of course, but you have replied in great detail. Mrs Verhaert, you have the floor for a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased that you, as mayor, share our concern about this matter. I would like to point out once again that local authorities are in the process of multi-annual planning. It is very difficult for them to make ends meet when such budgets on Flemish and federal levels come up again and again. Know that this puts serious pressure on the municipalities.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u30	Minister, thank you for your very detailed answer. I am pleased to see that you have a particular sensitivity on the subject as a municipalist. I believe that, while all police areas and municipalities are co-operating on multi-annual investment and financial plans, there would be an interest in developing a more encouraging and more optimistic communication towards federated entities and municipalities in order to give them at least one breath of air for others of their emergencies.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u31	Mr Demon has a question about automatic facial recognition. There is no causal link between the questioner and the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u32	Here's your little devil, indeed. Mr Minister, security measures at our airport became effective after the attacks of 22 March 2016. In 2017, automatic facial recognition was tested. It was checked that the passengers who checked in were indeed the persons allowed to board the plane and that they were not dangerous. The control organ on the police information noted that the police may use cameras, but that the system of automatic facial recognition stante pede had to be stopped. So now there is no longer control via automatic facial recognition. There would be several reasons, both legal and technical. Legally, the system in the field of privacy, once again, has not been sufficiently investigated. Also, templates of faces, a digital processing of photos, should no longer be kept in a database. I have questions about the decision. Why is the problem only now emerging? There would also be technical problems. There would not always be a correct match between the person from whom the photo is taken and his or her identity. It is clear that there are still gaps in the system. However, many stakeholders are positive. Travellers, our police forces and also our group want to start the system as soon as possible. Mr President, first of all, what is the state of play in the dossier? What is your opinion and what is the opinion of the federal police on the action taken by the control body? Have you been with the federal police and the local police permanent committee? What are the opinions? How can Parliament, now that the government is in current affairs, if necessary, support you, Minister, if you cannot take measures to ensure that the system is launched quickly?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u33	Mr Demon, first of all, thank you for putting the dossier on the agenda once again in full focus and clarity. The use of new technologies, where facial recognition plays a primary role, is of particular importance for our security services in the fight against terrorism and organised crime. The pilot project, which we are talking about here, was launched by the federal police at Zaventem airport after the 2016 terrorist attacks and therefore deserves all our support. Let's get that straight. There are no arguments not to support the project. Indeed, the Police Control Body (COC) has asked the Federal Police to stop the pilot project for lack of clarity regarding privacy and data protection. What did the federal police do? It has taken action and, at my request, immediately launched consultations with the COC in order to define more clearly the scope, the modalities and the conditions, so that the project of facial recognition at the airport can and will be restarted as soon as possible. The pilot project is, after all, too important not to continue. If that consultation shows that additional legislative and regulatory work is needed, I will take responsibility for this within the limits of the current regime. Of course, I would like to take the outstretched hand so that we can take a legislative initiative if necessary. In the longer term, of course, a legal anchoring is required for cameras with facial recognition, as is the case for cameras for automatic number plate recognition, the ANPR cameras. I repeat that, while respecting privacy and data protection rules, the use of new technologies, in particular facial recognition, is essential to protect our society from terrorism and organised crime. So I will do everything I can with the federal police, with its main officials and all those responsible, to reboot the system as soon as possible and even extend it to other areas of application and other high-risk places.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u34	Minister, I am pleased that you are accepting the outstretched hand and that you want to extend the system. Automatic facial recognition at the airport is good; indeed, we need to address the problems there. What is more, we must try to extend such controls to other locations and other modalities. I look forward to initiatives from Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u35	Mr President, Madam Minister, the Mediterranean is still as deadly for migrants today. In 2018, there were almost 2,300 migrants who died trying to cross the Mediterranean. This is obviously less than in previous years, but it remains a considerable figure and, above all, huge in proportion to the number of departures. In 2015, while more than one million arrivals were recorded by the sea, 4 deaths per 10,000 arrivals were deplored. In 2018, there are 20 deaths per 1,000 arrivals. The figures for 2019 will probably be very heavy as well. If we still see so many deaths, while the figures for arrivals on the continent have so much declined, it is also because there are far fewer rescues, because the work of NGOs is criminalised, because several European states refuse access to their ports, because some ship captains are arrested or because some European states "refile" these migrants after laborious deals, as if they were packages of dirty linen, offering an unworthy spectacle of European values. However, there is sometimes a glimmer of hope. On Monday in Malta, five countries (including France, Germany, Italy and Malta) concluded, under the supervision of the Council and the Commission, a pre-agreement of which we do not yet know all the details, but which proposes a temporary mechanism for disembarking rescued persons in the Mediterranean, including an automatic distribution of migrants. This distribution mechanism is temporary and limited but, from the point of view of my group, it is an encouraging first step towards finally putting an end to the unworthy deals that we have been seeing for months whenever an NGO ship saves migrants at sea. Regardless of these political considerations, it's just about saving lives. It seems obvious to us that the concept of emergency in day-to-day affairs can, and even must, allow Belgium to participate in a life-saving mechanism. Madam Minister, will Belgium take part in this mechanism and support it? A meeting on this subject is scheduled for 8 October to decide.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u36	Mr De Smedt, you are referring to an agreement reached this week between five countries. This agreement aims to offer a temporary solution to the problem of migrants rescued at sea by NGO vessels. We received the text yesterday and are in the process of analysing it. It will be discussed at the Justice and Home Affairs Council on 8 October, in which I will also participate. In the meantime, I would like to remind you of the point of view adopted so far. An international problem requires an international approach. I remain convinced that only a firm approach at European level will enable us to tackle the challenges of asylum seekers more effectively. This approach must be comprehensive and structural. It should not only target the landing of migrants arriving from the Mediterranean, or problems such as secondary migration and resettlement from third countries. We need to solve the problems in their entirety. I am part of a global solution. As far as our country is concerned, our host network is under pressure as a result of secondary migration and the malfunctioning of the Dublin Regulation. Belgium is making a greater effort per capita compared to Italy. As in the past, our country calls for the participation of all Member States in a solution combining solidarity and responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u37	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, which, however, you leave in abeyance, the time to analyse the text and return to us. Nevertheless, I encourage you not to overlook the possibility of Belgium joining a core of other European countries that simply want to contribute to a temporary and solidarity mechanism. It is not your fault that this government is in current and minority affairs. But if it is a minority, it is also because a certain prime minister had chosen, in a case concerning migration, to have humanistic values prevail over nationalistic values. Thank you for remembering that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u38	Minister, we remember the discussions on the 2017 Social Security Funding Reform Act. At the time you assured us – despite the warnings of the social partners and mutualities – that everything was going very well, that we should not worry, that the tax shift would be fully compensated and that, moreover, the financing of social security would be secured. To hear you, at that time too, there was virtually no need for balance staffing. Besides, you conditioned it and even refused to extend it beyond 2020, but today we can't lie to each other anymore. The numbers are here. The social partners announced this morning the updated figures for the social security budget. I can tell you we're cold in the back. With the policy that has been pursued, social security suffers a deficit of €3 billion in 2019. It is estimated at €3.5 billion in 2020 and €6.3 billion, i.e. a catastrophic doubling, by 2024. What to say? This year's balance allocation will compensate for this deficit but what in subsequent years? With no policy change, I do not see how we can secure the payment of pensions and the reimbursement of health care. Minister, do you confirm the figures announced this morning? How do you plan to pay social benefits? Can you commit to working with Parliament to review this funding legislation or at least to sustain balance staffing?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u39	Madam Secretary, social security, the cathedral of the working class, is on fire. She's in danger. That's not just what the PVDA says, that's what the unions say. The unions sent out the message this morning that social security is in danger because there are gaps in income. There is now a gap of EUR 3.1 billion, double what was estimated in June. According to the simulation, the gap in social security will reach 6.3 billion euros by 2024. Madam Minister, that deficit is your responsibility and, by extension, the responsibility of this right-wing government, which has pursued a policy over the last five years in which social security contributions have been systematically reduced. There's woodworm in social security. The employers' contributions to social security behave like the polar caps; they melt away. The Federal Planning Office has confirmed that in 2018 there were 16 billion less income for social security, including through various forms of extra-legal remuneration. In 2017, the Finance Act was amended here in Parliament. There were negative effects of the tax shift, actually a tax cut for large companies, a tax gift that was paid directly to the shareholders. There is also no balance dotation guaranteed from 2021. Mrs De Block, do you agree with me that the policy of the last five years has failed in terms of sustainable social security funding? When are you finally going to focus on the shrinking income of social security rather than just focusing on spending savings? After all, soil has been reached for a long time, because we already have the lowest pensions in Western Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u40	Madam Secretary, we have an antisocial government, a government that is trying to save money in order to dismantle social security. I'm getting that through the unions. I also hear social security is a burning cathedral. That was cited this morning in an opinion piece in De Standaard by the trade unions, as Mr De Vuyst just said. Ladies and gentlemen, I find that somewhat strange, since social expenditure has increased over the last five years. Think of the minimum pensions. Think of the living wages. Think of benefits for people with disabilities, which have increased. I can go on like this for a while. A number of measures have also been taken for our self-employed. The career period has been abolished. The maternity rest for self-employed mothers has been taken from eight to twelve weeks, all thanks to that anti-social government Michael. There has also been criticism of all kinds of systems. I read in that opinion piece, for example, critical of the system of holiday jobs. I read criticism of the flexi-jobs, which already generated more than EUR 37 million this year. It is said that they take regular jobs, but that also turns out to be wrong, because permanent employment in the catering industry has also increased. Those are all facts you can check out. There is a real shortage of social security. Of course, we cannot deny that. I think the causes of this are well known. There is the economic situation. There's the uncertainty about the Brexit. There is the trade war between the United States and China. The government has already taken a number of measures to reduce costs. The retirement age, for example, is beginning to increase. That's a saving. We have to reform to grow. That's a fact that's certain. I would like to call on this House not to try to close the gap with new taxes, but to think about the elaboration of other proposals. Madam Secretary, could you clarify the budgetary deficit in social security? Social security is always balanced with the dotation of equilibrium. Can you confirm this and thereby remove the unfounded fear that people are being talked into?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u41	I wish these three speakers congratulations on their maiden speech, although they were still a little too long, but we are mild. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u42	Madam Minister, social security in our country is financed at around 60% by contributions from employers and employees. The rest is constantly adjusted by the government. However, in 2017, as part of the engagement of all partners, it was established that the State grant should only increase to the extent that GDP increases, i.e. when the economy grows, when more people are at work and so when more people contribute to social security. Now, however, it seems that a deficit of more than EUR 3 billion is coming towards us. This in itself is somewhat surprising, because most expenditure on social security is, of course, perfectly foreseeable. What is also striking about this is the attitude of the trade unions. Some sense of responsibility is completely strange to them today. The only thing they do today in the newspapers is look again at father State who has to fit everything, while it is also their responsibility to ensure that the level of activity increases in our country. They are co-owners of our social security, they have a great responsibility and they have to ensure that more people are working and that people stay on for longer. I therefore have the following questions, Madam Secretary. Is it true that a budget of EUR 3 billion has recently been approved? If yes, was that decision assessed against the response factors set out in 2017? What have you done to remind the trade unions of their responsibility, which they seem not to accept today?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u43	Mr President, the public budget is indeed in a precarious situation that requires rapid action. We are doing what we can in current cases, but if we are to be able to tackle the problems in a structural way, we must have a government with full authority quickly. I am surprised that you find that figure new today, because it was already known on 1 July, namely the social security management committee. It was subsequently confirmed by the Monitoring Committee. I therefore note that today's topical questions are about a figure of 1 July. In fact, there will soon be a debate on this in the Committee on Finance. I, too, have read the trade unions' open letter in the newspaper. I assume that, out of courtesy, I will also receive him personally. I agree with them that we should not be blinding ourselves to social security expenditure. However, allow me to challenge some counter-truths. Flexi-jobs, for example, do contribute to social security, with even a surplus of €40 million a year, as the workers pay social contributions – as do other workers. Secondly, with regard to social fraud, thanks to the work undertaken by my colleague Philippe De Backer, two thirds of the revenue from the fight against this phenomenon relates to social security contributions fraud. We must be honest with the facts; it is the essential basis for any quality discussion. I agree that we can simplify various statutes and benefits. This year's budget will be fixed and adapted to the 1 July calculation, but the next government will have to decide whether there will be any balance in the next few years. I have respected the coalition agreement, which states that there will be a settlement of the balance with the conditions of accountability until the end of this legislature, i.e. until 2020. The law must be respected. On the contrary, there is more income in our social security, because of the higher employment rates we have achieved. However, we see that the increase in revenue is less than the increase in expenditure. There is an increase of 2 billion a year in pensions. This already requires a lot of work creation. We will certainly have to step up our efforts in this area. There is 10% less employment in our country than in the Netherlands. In the Netherlands, the surplus is due to a higher employment rate. Wake up! That's not how it works anymore! The debate must be held on how social security can be strengthened. Mrs Dedonder, you will therefore not be surprised if I tell you that I do not agree with the eight proposals of the trade unions. New taxes seem simplistic to me, to say the least. In short, when we talk about higher benefits, higher pensions and even more social safety nets, the income of social security still has to go up. Yeah, I've been working on that. A few months before the elections, I came out with a new model for financing social security, with a single statute and a cappuccino model. The latter completely recreates our social security and adapts it to the needs of our modern society, by placing the people and not the structures at the centre. We are going for a far-reaching reform, wider than the increase in contributions, because that is not a solution, which creates a new problem. I have not yet heard the trade unions, but I will pass on to them, by means of a polite letter, eight proposals on which we can then have a dialogue. I look forward to it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u44	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I have to tell you that I am not reassured. I feel that in this government, social security is seen as a budgetary burden, whereas on the contrary, we should be proud of this system. We should be proud not to give up people when they are sick, old, or have an accident of life. You are referring to the proposals of the unions. For my part, I'm not going to make a fuss, or a petition, but a bill. Our group has just tabled a bill to sustain the financing of social security. We had a Social Affairs Committee this week. We were told that the social system remains viable. Political choices must be made. We're offering you one. It's a matter of will. In the Socialist Party, we have that will.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u45	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. However, it will not be surprising that the answer was not really satisfactory, but, on the contrary, disappointing. After all, you are talking about the income that has been generated by the increase in employment. However, the problem is that the newly created jobs are by-jobs, with precarious statutes and on which no social contributions have to be paid. I am thinking, for example, of flexi-jobs. I just wanted to mention that. We are also making a number of proposals to refinance social security. Involve productivity gains in the debate on the financing of social security. We see that over the last five years there has been a huge transfer from labour income to capital income. We also have proposals in this area. Get a return on society instead of a return on investment and return on capital. Make sure the millionaire tax is introduced. Ensure stable and fully-fledged jobs, on which full social contributions are paid. Also show five minutes of political courage and fight tax fraud, which is estimated at EUR 36 billion annually. In this way, social protection can also be improved and even the minimum pension can be increased to EUR 1,500 net.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u46	Madam Minister, thank you very much for your reply. For us too, it is clear that social security income must be increased, but that this can only be achieved by increasing the number of people employed. 250,000 jobs have been added to the Michael administration, of which 46,000 were created the last year of the previous legislature. For the most part, these were private sector jobs. We must continue and work together on that momentum. I hope that the trade unions will also be able to make constructive proposals in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u47	Madam Secretary, no one has argued in favour of cutting social security blindly. However, on behalf of the N-VA Group, I have called on everyone to do everything possible to increase the employment rate. You said you haven't heard the unions yet, which is a shame. That was the answer to my last question. But what have you done with regard to the trade unions? Nothing yet. I'm sure you'll write a polite letter. Well, I hope you will take your winged words from earlier when you said, "Wake up now! That's not how it works anymore." Finally, I hope that once and for all you will give a clear signal to the trade unions that our social security is not a butcher shop, where one can ask every day if it can be a little more.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u48	Madam Minister, I would like to bring the voice of close caregivers here: 800,000 Belgians who accompany and support a close relative who is dependent on age, illness or disability. Their investment is invaluable. Their demand for recognition and valorisation of this work is only more legitimate. As such, I would like to pay tribute to the dedication of the ASBL Near Aiders who are leading this fight with them. Mrs De Block, you have made a lot of promises. In 2016, you already claimed that you had encouraged progress on this issue. Here we are in 2019, and you had to twist your arm to get there. I myself had to introduce a bill to make this matter a priority in the House, so that we could discuss it with colleagues and then vote on it. It was last April. Finally, this law recognizes the rights of close caregivers and is due to enter into force in a few days, on 1 October. Orders - constituting your share of the work - are indispensable. But, Madam Minister, since last April, you have done nothing! Let's call a cat a cat: you are violating this law, which - because of your inaction - will not be applicable on 1 October next. You prevent thousands of close caregivers from seeing their living conditions improve. I will ask you one question, Madam Minister: when are you finally going to comply with the law and make these legitimate advances for close caregivers effective?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u49	Madam Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, family care is not the choice. You're being robbed by mantel care. Whether it's a child with a disability, or a parent with dementia, or a partner who gets seriously ill, it's not a voluntary choice. It's a surprise for you. Especially when one has to combine care with work, it is a very heavy combination. However, carers working day and night are also ready for their partners, children, parents or acquaintances. The only thing carers ask in return is a little appreciation and recognition of the government. This recognition was given to them here in Parliament, when the law was passed, allowing carers who work from 1 October, next Tuesday, to apply for additional leave for medical assistance and a benefit. Minister, Minister, all you had to do was implement that law. I have only one question for you, in the name of all the carers. Why didn't you do your job?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u50	Madam Secretary, every day 600,000 Belgians work for their relatives, for their sick or disabled relatives. It could be a family member, a partner or a neighbor. Taking care of someone who is sick or disabled is hard, especially if one has to combine it with a job. In April this year, in our great appreciation and respect for the carers, we decided in the Committee on Social Affairs to adopt a legislative proposal which recognises and effectively supports those carers by giving them family leave. They would be on full-time family leave for a month, or two months, when they take part-time leave, half-time or a fifth. We have also said that we would prefer to move towards six months in the long term. In principle, this family leave should have been available from next Tuesday. I understand that a number of implementing decisions were still needed. Minister Beke had to ensure that some KBs were issued in order to allow employees and contractual officials to record it. As far as I know, it's decided whether those KBs were issued. The money needed for these premiums is also provided through the RVA. So there's actually no problem there either. However, you still had to make a royal decision to settle the applications, along with the mutualities. Apparently, that's where the shoe pinches, because these requests have to be made through the mutualities. They must first recognise the caregiver, then they can ask his employer for family leave and receive a contribution through the RVA. That's where the shoe pinches. Apparently, there is a discussion about the proper role of the mutualities and about any additional remuneration for that additional task. Madam Secretary, how come five months after the Royal Decree has not been passed? Why is there a delay? Have you consulted with the mutualities? How are you doing with that meeting? If it is not possible next Tuesday, when will carers, for whom nursing leave is much needed, be able to make those applications?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u51	Thank you for your questions, colleagues. I will give you an answer and Mr Beke will be able to supplement me. After all, in a few weeks' time, we will be presenting the royal decisions together to the Council of Ministers. The Law of 17 May provides both for the elaboration of the recognition of carers and for a month's thematic leave for those entitled to care who are recognized as a caregiver for a person in need of care. The law was passed by the fall of the government only in current cases. This law is another important step forward. In fact, I was one of the proposers, in 2004, of the first law for carers, because as a general practitioner I knew very well how important these carers are. It is right that you have all repeated that here. I was also very pleased with the progress made in this House, although much depended on the royal orders to be made at the time by my colleague, Minister Peeters and, today, by Minister Beke and myself. During the vote, everyone knew very well that the timing for the royal decrees was very ambitious, given all the practical things that still needed to be put in place. Ambitious, that's the least we can say! Especially for a government in day-to-day business. From the outset, the sickness funds contacted us and told us that they wanted to be involved in the drafting of the royal decrees. That is why we have taken care of it. We have put our administrations and the sickness funds together, and indeed we have drawn up a list of many practical problems that had to be resolved, from legal problems to problems with the communication flows within the sickness funds and to the RVA. In the meantime, we have been working on this. So it is not at all the case that we have not done anything about it. Those things didn't stay down, but we just didn't get there. I believe that Mr Beke can agree that this week we will recharge the royal decisions and that they will be on the Council of Ministers in two weeks' time. If you have anything to add, be my guest.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u52	Can you resist such a question, Minister Beke? If you don't say anything, you agree.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u53	Minister De Block explained it perfectly. It concerns an important law, which was passed. For the private sector this is all right, for the public sector we will jointly issue the necessary KBs and have them approved as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u54	Madam Minister, the excuse for your current affairs seems totally inadmissible to me, first of all because it is a law and this law has been passed. Whether you are a minister or not, you obviously have to respect the law. Then, it cannot be said that the day-to-day affairs have monopolized you with energy and time to the point that you have not been able to work in good time on royal decrees. It's been months since you should have consulted the ASBL Helpers Near. It's been months since you should have consulted the mutuals to organize the practical aspects. Now, you're telling us that it's coming soon, in exactly two weeks. It should have been October 1st. Madam Minister, let us have a good account! You still need to consult the government. You will then have to go to the Council of State, then return to the government at second reading. Truth has its rights. The reality is that close caregivers will still not benefit from new rights in 15 days, even if you announce this date of passage to the Council of Ministers. I will not stop prosecuting you on behalf of all close caregivers until you comply with this law, until close caregivers are able to benefit from these new rights, as well as the people they support and help on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u55	Madam Minister, Minister, the government is indeed in progress. You have had five months to regulate the implementation of the law, which is so important for carers. I welcome your recognition of the need, but next Tuesday, carers will still not receive benefits nor will they be able to apply for additional leave for medical assistance. I would therefore urge that the law be implemented as quickly and clearly as possible. Then I do not have to come here again and again and ask what progress has been made with the implementation. If carers were to linger like that, care wouldn't be right.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u56	Madam Secretary, I would like to thank you for the answer. It is true that you have always been, like us, an advocate for the support of carers. That is why we supported you in April with a legislative proposal on this matter and gave you and the entire government the mandate to implement the regulation from 1 October. It's a shame that that just didn't work out. We are counting on you to do everything in your power to ensure that support in the form of family leave is made available as soon as possible. The carers deserve that. We are counting on you to make that happen.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u57	For Mrs Vanrobaeys it was her maiden speech, a term for which the criterion is that it is the first speech in a parliament. So we don't use that term for those who were previously part of another assembly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u58	Mr. Chair, Minister, the IPCC has just released a new report to the simply catastrophic conclusions on climate change and its consequences for the environment, as you have certainly learned. These conclusions go far beyond those of the previous report. We are even talking about an increase in the level of the oceans of more than one metre and a change in the coastline, including the Belgian coastline. At the same time, the Prime Minister made statements at the Climate Summit in New York, on the margins of the United Nations General Assembly, with two proposals. The first concerns the doubling of Belgium's international contribution, at least at the federal level, to the fight for climate change. The second concerns carbon neutrality, with a view to a European solution for 2050. Although we can agree on the substance of the first proposal, I believe that the way forward is totally unacceptable. We are in business, you are in a government with an extremely small minority, and the Prime Minister did not come to Parliament before going to the United Nations to make this statement. This is not acceptable, it is not the way we work. The Prime Minister has taken the risk of an announcement effect and the risk of offending Parliament. It would of course have been much better (and his speech would have been much stronger) for him to come to Parliament to explain to us how he intended to find that sum and to what it would be allocated to. As far as the second point is concerned, there is nothing new: it is the work of the European Commission. On the other hand, we have an urgent duty to the European Commission: by 31 December we must submit a new National Energy-Climate Plan. Our ambitions are much greater than before. They have been defined by the federal Parliament and include a reduction of greenhouse gases not by 35% but by 55% by 2030. From what I thought I understood in a question in committee last week, you said that until there was a full-exercise government, it would be difficult to work. I think we need to find a way to work urgently on this issue, and I do ask you what you are planning to do to achieve this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u59	Madam Minister, today our Prime Minister is only in charge of a resignation government, with no majority in this hemisphere. Last week he said here that he was angry because of the derailed budget. At the New York Climate Summit, however, he was of course in no way inferior to the others and just doubled the Belgian contribution to international climate financing. He wants to double the federal section just for a moment, without a majority and therefore with the money of the next government. Colleagues, de facto this means that the regions must also double their contribution. After all, there is an agreed distribution key for the Belgian revenues from auctioning allowances. In New York, however, the Prime Minister had a hard time proclaiming how his country hangs together with hooks and eyes. Flemish interest can speak freely here, because we have not adopted the climate resolutions. We are in the interest of the many Flemings who will be affected by the various climate hysterical measures in the coming years. Colleagues, climate hysteria is indeed at stake. That is a term that the chairman of the Climate Commission, Vincent Van Quickenborne, quite rightly used himself the day before yesterday. Madam Secretary, is it up to a government in current affairs to make promises in New York with the money of the next government? Where will these resources be obtained for the federal doubling? What will happen to the agreed distribution key?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u60	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a climate summit took place in New York on Monday. Most of them have been stuck with Greta Thunberg's speech, but as I said, our Prime Minister was there too. Greta Thunberg talked about no empty words, and that was also the intention of that climate summit. The intention was to leave only those countries that had concrete proposals, and they could present them there. So I was very curious when our Prime Minister took the floor. He recognised the importance of climate change. He also said that this is one of the greatest challenges of this century. What did he do next? Then he made an empty promise. Because he said there: I am going back to my country, I am going to Parliament, and I will ask Parliament to double the contribution. I don't understand. Maybe it's because I'm new to this Parliament? We have been working seriously on the Climate Committee for several weeks. You know that. We have already worked well there, but we have not yet seen the Prime Minister there. I'm just wondering, why didn't he come to our committee? Why did he not come to our committee with a concrete proposal so that we could discuss it? In our sp.a group, however, he would find a supporter when it comes to a more ambitious and fairer climate policy. That is what this proposal is about. So, for us, he could have gone to New York prefect with a concrete proposal. He didn't. I have two questions. First of all, why didn't he? Why did he follow the path and didn't he come to the committee first? I would like to call on him from this place to come to our committee next week with a concrete proposal so that we can talk about it. You know that a decision has to be made within a month.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u61	Madam Minister, the climate debate should not be about the tone for a long time, but about its content. Last week in Belgium, 15,000 people were on the streets, and 4 million worldwide, with only two questions, firstly a greater ambition and, secondly, concrete measures. The Prime Minister partly understood it, because he went to New York and promised the developing countries money to do something about climate policy there. What will the Prime Minister and you promise that Belgium will do? If the Prime Minister says he will come to Parliament to ask Parliament to agree to that money for the developing countries, my question is whether he will also come to Parliament to agree to the measures to be included in the Climate Action Plan. On 31 December we must be done with that. On 31 December, we must deliver our plan, our route, our climate ambitions to the European Commission. With concrete measures. What's your plan now that the government's in business? Will you come to Parliament to do this together with our work?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, during his speech at the United Nations Climate Summit, the Prime Minister reminded Belgium of its ambition to combat climate change. That is the challenge of our century. One of the parliamentarians who asked the question recalled it. The fight against climate change must indeed guide our actions, mobilize our will, both for initiatives that we take internally, in our country, and in the approach that we must develop externally when we help other countries. Coordination in Belgium exists through a cooperation agreement dating back to 1995. This makes it possible to distribute work and efforts at the Belgian level, knowing that efforts are shared between the different levels of power. A question has been asked about this; it concerns burden sharing, i.e. the sharing of efforts between the different levels of power, in particular for the increase of renewable energy and the reduction of greenhouse gases, but also for the global financial contribution, which is paid to the Green Climate Fund – an international fund. This burden sharing – which is scheduled to begin for the period 2020-2030 – is usually carried out under the leadership of one of the levels of power. This is a rotating presidency between them. Currently – since January 2019 if I'm not mistaken – the Brussels Region is president and has to start work. All speakers spoke of the second item, which is parallel to it. This is the National Energy-Climate Plan. As you know, we are working in committee on these issues. We are also working in IKW – we had a meeting recently – to continue refining this plan at the federal level. Then we will have inter-federal IKWs to examine how we can concretely aggregate our larger ambitions. Technically, that's how it goes. It is therefore true that I said that we are in the business of day-to-day business, and that until we have a full-fledged federal government, it would be more complicated to provide for a financial contribution that would make the ambitions contained in our final draft operational. This text must be submitted to the Commission on 31 December 2019, as you recalled. However, it is not impossible to proceed otherwise, by means of a resolution and a debate at Parliament level. This is what the Prime Minister himself says when he announces that Belgium, one of the 60 countries admitted to the UN Summit, wants to increase or even double its participation in the Green Climate Fund. We are doing so in practice under the National Energy-Climate Plan. This will require a debate in Parliament in the day-to-day business. We will see what will be the majority that will emerge in the future parliamentary debate, which is likely to open through me, since this issue falls within my purview. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u63	Madam Minister, while thanking you for your answer, I urge you not to waste time on this parliamentary debate. Indeed, if you allow me the expression, the events took place a little backwards. The Prime Minister first left for New York and then announced a debate in the House. However, we could have inaugurated it in the last few weeks, so that the Prime Minister could have shown himself to be firmer in the forum of the Climate Summit. I sincerely regret that we have not been able to work in this direction. As far as the financial contribution is concerned, you tell us that it is complicated. For my part, I believe that we need to be much more proactive in this area. You must say that you are going to work with Parliament. If you associate it properly, instead of twisting his arm behind his back by putting it in front of the fait accompli – as it just happened in New York – you will have it at your side in order to defend a strong ambition for the climate. In any case, you will receive the support of the CDH. You know that, by the voice of Maxime Prévot, we submitted the proposal for an "Octopus" on the climate several months ago. Several parties have answered us, but not yet yours. We believe that we must move forward, with all democratic forces, in order to promote an ambition for the climate that is very strong, very fast and very concrete.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u64	Madam Secretary, you have not actually answered my pertinent questions. I simply note that many colleagues in this hemisphere are being chased by people like von der Leyen. Climate neutral in 2050 and achieving a CO2 reduction of 55% by 2030 is easier said than done. The question is who will pay for that. You should put your ear to the business community, which has critical remarks. After all, the dream story could become a financial nightmare, even for the families who will see their wealth melt away in the future as snow for the sun with the EPC+ certificate. The elections were won by the climate realists, who ask themselves serious questions about the whole climate hysterical thing that I have to see here in Parliament every day.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u65	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I have not heard the concrete commitment that the Prime Minister will come to our committee, but it is not too late. Playtime's over. Today children no longer play on the streets, they come out on the streets to express their concern. That's more than right. I would like to say to the previous speaker that we know what is going on. We know what the consequences will be for humanity and the environment if we do nothing. It's time for action. I understand that your party has recently tabled a resolution to discuss the issue. We are giving a hand to work out a concrete proposal and to respond to the demands of, among other things, the Climate Coalition and civil society.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u66	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. The climate doesn't wait. We need ambition and feasible solutions, but what is needed, above all, is for every actor in this country, from business to citizens, to move together for an ambitious climate policy with viable solutions. I am also looking at you, Mr President. I think we should accept the Minister's outstretched hand and not allow ourselves to be locked up in current affairs. We need to work together to achieve an ambitious climate change course. That's what our country is asking for. I believe that Parliament, across the political groups, should take up this gauntlet and work towards a social and just climate policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u67	For colleagues Van Lommel and Verduyckt it was their maiden speech, for which I congratulate them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u68	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have just discussed this issue extensively and broadly. Personally, I wanted to ask you about a technical aspect following the statements made by the Prime Minister at the United Nations on the issue of the Green Climate Fund. Madam Minister, do you confirm the political will to go in the direction of doubling the Belgian contribution? What is the exact amount? As you know, this will have to be confirmed in one month, day to day, at the refinancing session of the Green Climate Fund. It would therefore be ideal for us to come with a precise solution. You'll tell me we're in business. But I hear that there are parliamentary wills in the House, in the various ranks of Parliament. You have credible partners here who want to move forward on a climate solution. Minister, are you ready to work with us?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u69	Mr President, Mrs Schlitz, thank you for your question. We've already talked about it. Indeed, the Prime Minister has told the United Nations that he is going to propose to Parliament to double the effort to combat climate change, which I welcome. We are many to greet him in this House and that is a good thing. It is also true that, in the context of day-to-day affairs, it is up to Parliament to decide in which areas, to what extent and when these actions must be undertaken in order to meet the objective set. If Parliament finds within it a majority to decide which measures, as is the case here, could indeed have a new budgetary impact, it will be up to me, as Minister for the Budget, to take this into account when drawing up the next budget document. If you wish, and I feel that this is the case, we will work together to make this project a reality.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u70	Madam Minister, thank you. I am very pleased, as Mr Michel said in the rostrum of the United Nations, that you have also heard the cry from the heart of the people. I am also pleased that we can finally join the ambitious climate countries. Very concretely, Great Britain, France, Sweden, Luxembourg and Germany have announced double contributions amounting to $4 billion. I think it is also our responsibility to have a proportional contribution but in relation to our historical responsibility. That's not negligible. I hope we can work together on an ambitious figure. I would also like to point out that yesterday, a CNCD report came out that shows that our official development assistance has never been so low. I really insist that we should not draw on this budget for the Green Fund.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u71	Madam Minister, as a former federal official, I know only too well how important it is that executives are also a little powerful in the second language of the country. I think we all agree that this can be the case not only in the context of evaluation discussions but also in the day-to-day operation. Colleagues, I have no doubt, we all agree in this chamber that knowledge of the second language is essential in the federal public service. However, it took until 2016 to implement that principle, when the law of 2002 was transposed into a Royal Decree. Former Minister of Civil Service Steven Vandeput ensured that top officials should also be able to submit an article 10 attest on functional bilingualism. In concrete terms, this means that senior officials should be able to conduct an evaluation interview in the language of the employee and that they should know a vocabulary of 800 words. The Royal Decree states that new mandate holders should be able to submit that certificate within six months. For those who were already senior officials, there was a transitional period of 30 months or two and a half years. That seems very fair to me. Meanwhile, Selor also set up a path for individual guidance, so I think all the measures to facilitate it were definitely there. However, the transitional period will end on 31 October and it appears that there are still 14 top officials who cannot submit the certificate. It concerns seven Dutch speakers and seven French speakers. We know from the media that in current cases the government is considering extending the deadline by six months to ensure continuity within public services. Madam Minister, the first reaction to the press article was that there was no delay and that there would be no delay afterwards. Can you clarify whether or not a postponement is being considered? What will happen to the 14 officials in question? Are there any new mandate holders who have not been able to submit the certificate after six months and, if so, what happened to them? Have the 14 top officials not passed or have they not passed the test yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u72	Mr President, Madam People's Representative, thank you for your question. I have also read the press and consider this article a non-event. After all, I reacted immediately and stated that the amendment of the proposal is absolutely not on the table. You yourself indicated that we were initially talking about 71 mandate holders to whom the measures relate. Well, fourteen of them, seven French speakers and seven Dutch speakers, have not yet provided proof of their functional bilingualism, even though they did have a lot of time to do so. The question of extending the transitional period of the law would have been useful only if the application of the measure had significantly endangered the functioning of the services and, in view of the period of current cases, prevented the appointment of new mandate holders. In view of these elements, it is clear that there is no need to deviate from the original provision laid down by the legislator. Otherwise, we await what will happen on 31 October 2019 with those who have to take responsibility. They had the chance to take the exam and still have the chance to do so. Then we'll see what happens.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u73	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I can therefore assume that all those involved will have another chance before 31 October 2019. After that, nothing happens. I would find it unreasonable if they were given six months' time and lost their job Some have apparently been treated differently in that case than those who were given 30 months' time and would also be given months' extra.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u74	Thank you, Mrs Ingels, for your first intervention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u75	Minister, beyond the context of Thomas Cook's bankruptcy and judicial reorganization and the fate of the 600 workers we are concerned about, it should be noted that many more companies are currently undergoing restructuring. These include KBC (1,400 jobs), Océ Software Laboratories (50 jobs), Match stores (210 jobs), Belgium Loisirs (52 jobs) and the Lhoist group (117 workers). In most cases, these companies are using Phase 1 of the Renault Act. The aim is to prevent staff from being hit by dry layoffs. We can find softer solutions, including what was once called pre-pension – now RCC. However, we must note that the government has changed age conditions, particularly in restructuring and difficult businesses. As a result, it is now 58 years old to benefit, while in 2020 it will be 59 years old and in 2021 it will be 60 years old. Recently, however, in the Ford Genk case, it was observed that pre-pensions had been granted to workers aged 55. In view of the situation and the difficulties experienced by the workers – to take the example of Lhoist – if the provisions are applied, 61 out of 117 workers are concerned. In the absence of an agreement by 31 December, they will be covered by the 2020 scheme, so that only 49 workers will be covered. It should be noted that most of them have had a long career in specialized trades and have been subject to severe hardships. In order to avoid putting these people into poverty that would also affect their families, we believe it is necessary to ease the age conditions for access to the CCB when companies are in difficulty and in the process of restructuring. My question will be quite simple, Minister: can you be sensitive to the hardships experienced by workers, to the point of considering for companies in restructuring and in difficulty of relaxing the age conditions of access to pre-pension? Thus, the best social solutions could be found for laid-off workers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u76	Mr Minister, yesterday we had the opportunity to debate precisely Thomas Cook's situation, both on the employment side and on the consumer protection side. I will have three clarifications to ask you because, as you said yourself, the situation is changing from hour to hour. The first is the Guarantee Fund that you met with the representatives this morning, I believe. Yesterday, you announced that the Fund had $17.5 million to cover the reimbursement and repatriation of travellers. However, the financial requirements for this year alone are estimated at between EUR 20 million and EUR 25 million. How will the Guarantee Fund be able to intervene? I don't know if you got any information on that. My second question, of course, is about employment. The trustees today confirmed the dismissal of 75 people. We still had a glimmer of hope yesterday. This is no longer the case. There are still 500 employees. I would also like to emphasize their professionalism because they are all at work today at the service of their clients. It is important to stress this point. These employees are in uncertainty. We learned that Ryanair was not a candidate for re-election. A business continuity procedure is therefore initiated pending a possible successor. Do you have any further information? Finally, my last question concerns Brussels Airlines. The financial impact on this company is obvious. It abolished a hundred flights for October alone. Thomas Cook was Brussels Airlines' main customer. Again, what will be the financial and employment impact? Do you know the amount of outstanding debts?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u77	Mr. Secretary, over the last few days we have been overwhelmed with poignant stories. People have worked hard all year long and saved up and watch their family holiday or honeymoon fall into the water. There are also people who have come to their dream destination, but can no longer return and are also put under pressure by the hoteliers. It's easy to say here that they can't pay anymore, but you'll just stand there with your family and you can't stay in your hotel room anymore. That's not obvious. It's causing a lot of indignation and anger. One has the feeling of being abandoned. It's about a lot of people. As many as 13,400 people were stuck abroad yesterday. They barely got any information. As many as 70,000 people have booked and paid for another trip and do not yet know whether the journey will continue or whether they will get their money back. Minister, all these people really need help. Fortunately, we have the Guarantee Fund in Belgium. Yesterday you confirmed in committee that the Guarantee Fund has sufficient financial resources. This is already reassuring, but the big question is whether the Guarantee Fund has sufficient staff to deal with this large influx of files efficiently and in the short term. There are only seven employees. That is, of course, not enough. That is why I called on the committee yesterday to consider whether there could be a temporary extension of the Guarantee Fund. You were supposed to consult with the Guarantee Fund, Minister. That's why I have a few questions for you. How many people are still out there? When will they be repatriated? How will this influx of files be handled in an efficient manner? Will there be a temporary extension of the Guarantee Fund? How will it be dealt with in concrete terms? We must, of course, consider the travellers, but we must also express our concern for the employees of Thomas Cook. They too are having scared days. Do you have any more news for the staff, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we had a great opportunity to discuss the problem of Thomas Cook, which many people were suddenly confronted with. People are on vacation. The travel agency suddenly goes bankrupt. Where are these people going? What should the people who have booked a trip, who thought they could go on holiday in the coming months and suddenly can't do that anymore? That is why we have the Guarantee Fund. In 2017, at the request of the government and my predecessor Kris Peeters, Parliament further extended, strengthened and strengthened the Guarantee Fund. That is a good thing. We had a consultation with the Guarantee Fund this morning. Of the 13,400 travellers who were detained abroad, 3,000 have been repatriated in the last two days. Today, 1,174 travellers will be repatriated. Another 1,042 people will be back tomorrow. By 6 October, 95% of travellers are expected to be repatriated. The priority is currently on repatriation. We discussed this yesterday in committee. I believe that there was a great deal of understanding among the members of the committee that the Guarantee Fund gives priority to bringing people back. Only afterwards will the compensation arrangements be considered for the people who had booked a trip but were not able to leave on holiday. Several diplomatic posts have now intervened with the Ministers responsible for tourism to address the problems of travellers. I referred yesterday to the letter sent by the Guarantee Fund to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This letter has also been delivered to the various diplomatic posts and has already ended up with some 50 foreign hoteliers. They gave a positive response to it. They now have the guarantee that they will receive a refund from the Guarantee Fund. The sector has also made contact with the European Commission, asking that it also take steps to ensure that travellers abroad are not treated unfairly. That was also one of the comments made yesterday in committee. All these actions ensure that the situation of our people abroad is now brought back to normal. The FPS State Department immediately installed a crisis number. That emergency number will be available until Sunday night. In the meantime, the number of calls for this crisis number has fallen considerably, indicating that people are sufficiently informed and that there is a certain normalization of the situation. Those who don't know what they're up to can still call the emergency number. Until Sunday, that stays manned. As regards information to travellers, the necessary actions have been taken to make it easily accessible on the Guarantee Fund website. There you will find information on repatriation and flights. Damage claims can also be submitted via that website. Meanwhile, 5,000 people have already made their claim through the Guarantee Fund website. It is important that people use the web form, because it allows the Guarantee Fund to operate in the most efficient way. There is therefore no need to wait until someone has been on the phone. You can just download the forms from the Internet. There was a question about the capacity of the Guarantee Fund and the seven employees. We have also talked about this. It is a private fund, of which several professional organisations are members. The professional organisations which are part of the Guarantee Fund have undertaken to provide assistance and to provide funds to bring the information to the traveller. There is therefore a progressive effort to provide the necessary resources for this. Immediately after yesterday's meeting, the SPF Economy was asked to publish more precise and practical information on its website as soon as possible. This practical information, which will be provided in the form of questions and answers, is being prepared and should be available on the website today. At our request, the Travel Guarantee Fund will also contact Test-Achats to find out how we could work together. This afternoon, the Managing Director of the Fund will meet with the trustee of the bankruptcy. The outcome of their meeting will be decisive for the possible execution of the planned package holidays as well as for the subsequent settlement of the claims of the travellers concerned. The question of whether Thomas Cook's staff can be called on depends, of course, also on the curator. With regard to restructuring, Mr De Caluwé has just referred to the job creation that has taken place in recent years. Mr De Caluwé has already called for job creation in the previous government. With regard to restructuring, any intention of collective redundancies must be announced to the SPF Employment, Labour and Social Concertation. In this sense, we follow closely all the files that have been submitted. In this context, as you pointed out, Mr Goblet, our services also ensure that the Renault law is respected. This means that workers are informed and consulted during the collective redundancies process. Throughout this process, the social conciliators of the SPF Employment, Labour and Social Concertation are also available to promote social dialogue in the company. The previous IPA, which has been closed together with the social partners, has taken measures and the government has also implemented those measures before the end of the career. It is true that a number of plans for collective redundancies were announced this year. You have already mentioned some organizations but there are also NLMK Clabecq, PUNCH Powerglide, Medialaan, etc. The reasons are often diverse and strongly related to the company in question (reduced demand for a product, digital transition within a company...) and to the international atmosphere – Brexit, US-China relations, etc. However, we cannot talk about a general trend at the moment. I also invite interested parties to consult the statistics on collective redundancies on the website of the SPF Employment, Labour and Social Concertation. In 2017, for example, this figure was very low. In 2018, as is often the case, this figure increased under the influence of collective redundancies by a major player or in certain sectors. This was the case with the redundancies announced at Carrefour. Of course, we do not yet have the final figures for this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u79	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It was also one of your first speeches as Minister, which is why I gave you a little more time for your detailed reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u80	Mr Minister, of course I cannot be satisfied with your answer. What you told me reminds me of what I've been managing for forty years. I know how restructuring is done. The problem is the situation of those affected by the redundancies. The aim of the Renault law is still to reach a social agreement. How can we make the exit conditions of workers as less difficult as possible? This is especially important when it comes to workers of a certain age who have been subjected to penitence, and who have had long careers. Today, the conditions laid down have made it possible to move from pre-pensions to sickness and disability insurance. In the current context, and it is not Brexit or other things that will excuse anything, from a social point of view, the situation would require that we return to better approaches for companies in restructuring or in difficulty. This would allow older workers to leave under acceptable conditions and in such a way that they are respected. I only have one conclusion to draw: whenever you want, you can. The measures that have been taken by the government suggest to me this phrase: "A man grows when he acknowledges his mistakes". Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u81	Thank you, my colleague. This may not be your first speech in your career, but it was the first in this House. Congratulations!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u82	Minister, for my part, I can only welcome the employment effort made by the Michel government. This is obvious, since thousands of jobs have been created. Today, as you have said very well, these are not called into question, even though it is true that the spectre of these collective redundancies prevails today in the travel sector. Ryanair's latest statements are not very reassuring with regard to the takeover. We have to follow the file, what we will do with you in the Committee on the Economy. We hope to have information very quickly, and we hope that these jobs will be saved. We are also concerned about the impact on Brussels Airlines, about which we will come back to you for more precise figures.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u83	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. It's a good thing we're getting more communication and we're getting an emergency number. That will reassure a lot of people. I agree that the focus should now be on repatriation. It is good that 95% of those concerned will be repatriated by 6 October. The temporary extension of the Guarantee Fund is also a good thing. It must be clear that the Guarantee Fund is not a public body, but that it is financed by the sector. It is the sector that must take its responsibilities first and foremost. I am pleased that the sector is doing so by providing additional assistance and resources. Finally, I would like to pay my respects to the employees of Thomas Cook Belgium. They get a lot of questions and have to make it all strong, while they also live in uncertain times. We have to sympathise with them and keep our fingers crossed for a happy ending.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u84	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u85	Colleagues, the PS Group has informed me that Mr André Flahaut replaces Mr Frédéric Daerden as Vice-President of the House from 19 September 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u86	The plenary session of 19 September 2019 appointed the 5 actual members of the Chamber's delegation to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. The plenary session of 19 September 2019 appointed the 5 permanent members of the delegation of the Chamber to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. Today, we are appointing the five alternate members of this delegation. Today we are going to appoint the five alternate members of this delegation. In accordance with Rule 159 of the Rules of Procedure, appointments of delegations to international assemblies shall be made to the proportional representation of political groups. Pursuant to Rule 159 of the Rules of Procedure, the appointments of delegations to international meetings shall be made on the basis of the proportional representation of political groups. Two options may be considered: - Appoint an alternate member of the same political group for each effective member. The terms of reference within the delegation will then be assigned as follows: 1 N-VA 1 Ecolo-Green 1 PS 1 Flemish Interest 1 MR - Or, assign the functions of alternate to the political groups of the House with an electoral quotient between 6 and 10. The terms of reference within the delegation will then be assigned as follows: 1 N-VA 1 CD&V 1 PVDA-PTB 1 Open Vld 1 Ecolo-Green The following 2 options are possible: - appoint an alternate from the same political group per effective member. The mandates within the delegation shall then be allocated as follows: 1 N-VA 1 Ecolo-Green 1 PS 1 Flemish Interest 1 MR - either assigning the seats of alternates to the political groups of the Chamber by the sixth to tenth electoral quotient. The mandates within the delegation shall then be allocated as follows: 1 N-VA 1 CD&V 1 PVDA-PTB 1 Open Vld 1 Ecolo-Green The second option, for which there is a precedent in the allocation of mandates for the Council of Europe, is that we take account of the smaller groups. In view of yesterday's exchange of views in the Conference of Presidents, I propose that option 2. In view of yesterday's exchange of views at the Conference of Presidents, I propose that you take option 2. The House must decide on this, but I believe in all objectivity that there was a majority in the Conference of Presidents for option 2. Pas d'observation? Are you sure you don't mind? If we have to vote on this, I suggest that the Registrar call the members to come to the hemisphere. Then we can proceed to the vote in a moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u87	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 26 September 2018, a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Monitor of 27 September 2018 for the terms of office of Dutch-speaking members and of the first and second Dutch-speaking alternate members of the Standing Committee on the Review of Intelligence and Security Services. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 26 September 2018, a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 27 September 2018 for the mandates of the Dutch-speaking Member and of the first and second Dutch-speaking alternate member of the Standing Committee on the Supervision of the Intelligence and Security Services.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u88	- Mr Wauter Van Laethem, Collaborator Committee R
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u89	- Mr Wauter Van Laethem, Collaborator Committee R
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u90	- Mr Wauter Van Laethem, Collaborator Committee R
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u91	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 25 September 2019, I propose that you transmit the curriculum vitae of the candidates to the political groups. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 25 September 2019, I propose to deliver the curriculum vitae of candidates to the political groups. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u92	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 10 July 2019, a new call for candidates was published in the Belgian Moniteur of 17 July 2019 for the term of a French-speaking alternate member for the category "Professor/Course Officer" of the Commissions de nomination pour le notariat. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 10 July 2019, a new call to candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 17 July 2019 for the mandate of French-speaking alternate member for the category "Professor/teacher' of the Appointment Committees for the notary. The following applications were submitted: - Mr. Philippe Damman, former traineeship master at UCL - Mr. Pierre Moreau, Professor, Faculty of Law, University of Liège. The following applications were submitted: - Mr Philippe Damman, former internship counselor at the UCL - Mr Pierre Moreau, Professor at the Faculty of Law of the Université de Liège. In accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents of 25 September 2019, I propose that you declare Mr Philippe Damman's candidacy inadmissible. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 25 September 2019, I propose that Mr Philippe Damman's candidacy be declared inadmissible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. I remind you that the following terms of office of the Appointment Commissions must be renewed: Two magistrates (1 F + 1 N) and two external members (1 F + 1 N) for the actual members; one magistrate (1 N), two professors/teachers (1 F + 1 N) and two external members (1 F + 1 N) for the alternate members. I would remind you that the following mandates of the Appointment Committees should be renewed: Two magistrates (1 N + 1 F) and two external members (1 N + 1 F) for the working members; one magistrate (1 N), two professors/teachers (1 N + 1 F) and two external members (1 N + 1 F) for the alternate members.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u93	- Mr Herman Van Driessche, avocat
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u94	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 25 September 2019, I propose that you transmit the curriculum vitae of the candidates for the terms of alternate members to the political groups. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 25 September 2019, I propose to deliver the curriculum vitae of candidates for the mandates of alternate members to the political groups. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u95	A call for candidates for the appointment of four experts (2 F + 2 N) within the Commission for the control of election expenses and the accounting of political parties was published in the Moniteur belge on 12 July 2019. In the Belgian Official Journal of 12 July 2019, a call for candidates was published for the appointment of four experts (2 N + 2 F) for the Audit Committee on election expenses and the accounting of the political parties.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u96	- Mr. Emmanuel Vandenbossche,
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u97	- Mr. Gunter Vanden Eynde,
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u98	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 25 September 2019, I propose that you transmit the curriculum vitae of the candidates to the political groups. The Committee on the Interior, Security, Migration and Administrative Matters will hold a hearing of the candidates. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 25 September 2019, I propose that the curriculum vitae of the candidates be sent to the political groups. The candidates will be heard by the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administrative Affairs. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u99	Earlier I read out the two options that can be considered. I have just read out the two possible options. In view of yesterday's Conference of Presidents' exchange of views, option 2 was preferred. However, in the absence of consensus, I propose that you proceed to a nominative vote. In view of yesterday's exchange of views at the Conference of Presidents, option 2 was preferred. However, in the absence of consensus, I propose that we proceed to the vote on the name. Under option 2, the allocation of alternates is made in a more weighted manner. So we do not follow the strict application of the D'Hondt system. Mr Lachaert, I see you looking questionable, but option 2 is more favourable to the small groups to which you now belong. [[Laughter]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 81 Yes No. [[41]] No Abstentions 8 Abstensions Total 130 Total Option 2 has therefore been adopted. Accordingly, option 2 was adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u100	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. A supplementary list of proposals for consideration has been submitted to the Conference of Presidents. This list will also be included in the Annex to the Integral Return Account. The Conference of Presidents was informed of an additional list of proposals for consideration. This list will also be included in the Annex to the Integrated Report. If there are no comments on this subject, I shall consider it to be taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider it accepted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-26-55-plenair-ip006x.u101	We need to approve the agenda for next week's sittings. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for next week's meetings. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 3 October 2019 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, October 3, 2019 at 2:15 p.m.
