ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u2	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 13 March 2019, I propose that you register on the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 13 March 2019, I propose that you include in the agenda of this afternoon's plenary session: the discussion of points 12 and 13 after the discussion of point 2: 12. the draft law on judicial costs in criminal matters and equivalent costs, Nos 3412/1 to 7; 13. the legislative proposal (Mr Gautier Calomne and Mr Philippe Goffin, Mrs Sybille de Coster-Bauchau and Mr Raf Terwingen, Mr Egbert Lachaert, Mr Stefaan Van Hecke, Mr Christian Brotcorne, Mr Peter Vanvelthoven and Mr Patrick Dewael and Mrs Carina Van Cauter) amending the Civil Code to allow marriages to take place on Sundays and/or public holidays, Nos 3564/1 to 4. the discussion of items 12 and 13 after the discussion of item 2: 12. Bill Nos. 3412/1 to 7 concerning criminal justice costs and related costs; 13. the proposed law (MM. Gautier Calomne and Philippe Goffin, Sybille de Coster-Bauchau and MM. Raf Terwingen, Egbert Lachaert, Stefaan Van Hecke, Christian Brotcorne, Peter Vanvelthoven and Patrick Dewael and Mrs Carina Van Cauter) amending the Civil Code to allow the celebration of marriages on Sundays and/or public holidays, nos. 3564/1 to 4. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u3	I have received amendments to the legislative proposal (Mr Elio Di Rupo, Mr Paul-Olivier Delannois, Mrs Fabienne Winckel, Mr Jean-Marc Delizée, Mr Frédéric Daerden, Mr Daniel Senesael and Mr Frank Wilrycx) amending the Royal Decree of 20 July 1971 establishing benefit insurance and maternity insurance for the benefit of the self-employed and assisting spouses in order to lift the waiting period, No. 3098/7. I have received amendments to the bill (MM. Elio Di Rupo, Paul-Olivier Delannois, Fabienne Winckel, MM. Jean-Marc Delizée, Frédéric Daerden, Daniel Senesael and Frank Wilrycx) amending the Royal Decree of 20 July 1971 establishing an insurance scheme and maternity insurance for self-employed and assisting spouses, with a view to abolishing the waiting period, No 3098/7. I propose that these amendments be sent to the Committee on Industry, Science Policy, Education, the national scientific and cultural institutions, the Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and Agriculture (Art. 93, No. 1, Rules of Procedure). I propose that you send these amendments to the Committee on the Economy, Scientific Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, the Middle Classes and Agriculture (Art. 93, No. 1 of the Regulation). The legislative proposal will be discussed in plenary today after discussion of the amendments in committee. The discussion of the bill will continue in plenary, after consideration of the amendments in committee. I do not think it is right that the committee meeting should take place after the oral questions. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u4	Prime Minister, the words echoed this morning by your Minister of Pensions, Mr Bacquelaine, are provocation and sabotage once again. At the beginning of this month, the social partners agreed, on the one hand, on an interprofessional agreement (with wage increases and end-of-career conditions) and, on the other hand, as provided for in the Generations Pact, on raising the lowest allowances to avoid too high a drop in wages. In the meantime, and from this same rostrum, I invited you to put yourself on the side of solutions and to fully honour this agreement. An agreement that is essential, both for social peace and for the living conditions of the most fragile among us, in order to prevent more workers from slipping into poverty. Even the MR group leader, Mr Clarinval, said in the same forum: "We encourage you to continue to validate this interprofessional agreement as soon as possible in its entirety". Patatras, today, has a discordant voice in the ranks of the MR, that of Minister Bacquelaine, who refuses the proposals of the social partners with regard to raising the lowest pensions and who, in other words, invites you not to honour the interprofessional agreement, which wants to sabotage it. Prime Minister, this is unacceptable! We're starting to get used to message jamming, discordant voices, conflicting messages from your party. Between the neoliberals and the right-wing leftists, I admit that I am no longer very well there. It's hard for me to follow the line. I am simply asking you, Prime Minister: who should we believe? Is it Mr. Clarinval or Mr. Bacquelaine? Are you committed to fully honouring the agreement of the social partners with regard to raising the lowest allowances, in this case pensions? Prime Minister, an agreement is an agreement!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u5	Prime Minister, for the past five years, your conception of social bargaining has been to sit down on the employers' side to put the knife under the hands of the workers to impose your positions; a government consultation with the bosses against the workers who were rarely entitled to the chapter. As your government is in day-to-day business, things have changed. A draft Interprofessional Agreement (IPA) was presented. We see the difference. However, all partners agree that this draft agreement is particularly sensitive. Indeed, under your government, the workers have been mistreated as never before: you have forced them to work until the age of 67, you have imposed an index jump on them and you have mostly amended the law to prevent wage increases. In this context, of course, the margin is low: 1.1%. This is certainly better than 0.8%, but I understand that it is difficult for workers to accept it. The ink of the draft agreement was not yet dry that your Vld partners were already questioning it, followed, of course, by the N-VA, always ready to help you against the workers. But today - and this is the summit - a member of your government, of your party, decides to torpedo the AIP project and above all, the distribution of the welfare envelope. Prime Minister, put your ranks in order! Be clear! Does your government support the PIA project and the allocation of the wellness envelope? If confirmed in the coming weeks, are you committed to fully implementing it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u6	Mr President, Prime Minister, two weeks ago there was a wide-ranging debate here in plenary on the social agreement within the Group of Ten. At that time, the N-VA group leader stressed that the N-VA was in favour of granting a rise of 1.1 percent to strengthen the purchasing power of the workers, which had already been made possible by the good work of the Michael I government. We also made it clear at that meeting that we absolutely cannot agree to a number of parts of that social agreement, because it will certainly reverse the Michel I administration's policy and, above all, because they are detrimental to the affordability of our social security. The focus then was on reducing the entry age for the SWT, which in the meantime has shown that its impact is somewhat greater than the social partners have shown. At that time it was already clear that there was a fundamental disagreement within your remaining Michael II government. Open Vld has announced with great conviction that he will never or never approve that part of the interprofessional agreement, for which Mr Lachaert received applause from several banks in this hemisphere. Yesterday it became clear that Minister Bacquelaine, the Minister for Pensions, with whom I have been working for a long time and whom I know as a very brave and sensible man, cannot agree with the draft agreement of the social partners either. He even wrote you a letter about that. In concrete terms, he did not agree with the proposal that minimum pensions for people with a full career would increase less quickly than for those with an incomplete career. That criticism is justified, because that proposal runs counter to the philosophy of previously decided policy by Michel I in order to strengthen the link between the number of years worked and pension benefits. The N-VA fully agrees with the substantive criticism of Minister Bacquelaine and with his view that it is not up to the social partners to lay down such arrangements for the calculation of pensions. Do you agree as Prime Minister with the position and criticism of your Minister for Pensions? More importantly, do you maintain your position that the government will implement the entire interprofessional agreement in all its parts, despite growing opposition from Open Vld and within your own MR, and despite the fact that there are issues in the agreement that run counter to the policy you have been pursuing with us for four years?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u7	Mr President, Prime Minister, I have just heard my colleague and I have the impression that, through the mail in question, Minister Bacquelaine has been the spokesperson for the N-VA. Fifteen days ago, you yourself were pleased here with this IPA project between the social partners. It is true that as quickly as possible, the Open Vld and the N-VA tried to torpedo the agreement. But the MR seemed to support him. This morning, it's the pomp: we learn that your Minister of Pensions, who you also meet in your party – of which you are the president – wrote you a letter. We wonder why! Then, this mail falls from the truck and finds itself in the press, so one can wonder if it is not rather a press release. Mr Bacquelaine still slips you a famous banana skin under the foot! "That's right," you tell me. Your attitude is quite revealing. He not only wanted to torpedo the agreement – as N-VA spokesman, it's normal... – but he also torpedoes you. There is reason to worry about the turn of events in your government. Let us come to the content, which is even more surprising. In essence, Minister Bacquelaine explains that this draft agreement, which you purportedly supported, is contrary to government policy. He adds that you make a mistake in supporting this PIA project. Prime Minister, unlike what is happening in your minority government, we support this PIA project, because it is not only positive for workers and employers, but also positive for social peace, employment and well-being. Far from the electoralist postures adopted within your government, it has been since the opposition that we support it. You're the Prime Minister. What will then be your attitude? Will you support this PIA project - not just you, as Prime Minister, but also your Minister of Pensions and the government as a whole?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u8	Mr. Chair, Prime Minister, a draft Interprofessional Agreement (IPA) had therefore been submitted two weeks ago. The MR was hot to support this draft agreement. There was more than one comment to make on this draft IPA, let us be very clear on this point. Workers are angry because of the proposed low wage increase of 1.1% while profits are maintained in Belgium. It's disgusting to offer them only 1% increase. So there was more than one reason to reject this PIA. Today we hear that there are even leftists in the ranks of the MR! Perhaps they were going to ask for an increase in wages, what do I know? I don't know what the right-wing leftists think! Of course, being on the right weighs more than being leftist on the right. We're going to ask him if 1% is right or leftist! I repeat, therefore, there was more than one reason to reject this PIA, but what is meant by a member of the MR? Clearly not leftist him, Mr Bacquelaine! He intervened to say that this PIA should not be signed. Why? Listen carefully to the reason given! Because Mr Bacquelaine objected to the 2.4% increase in minimum pensions for workers who did not have a full pension. That's disgusting! Colleagues, who are these workers? Who are these workers who don't have a full career? Nine out of ten women! Nine out of ten women don't have a 45-year career. When Minister Bacquelaine says that there will be no increase of 2.4 %, he says to all those women that they should not get an increase of 2.4 %. That is absolutely scandalous, ladies and gentlemen. The PTB published a study according to which one in three women in Belgium receive a pension of less than 750 euros. The reasons are very clear. You have created this inequality, honourable Members of the Right. When Mr. Bacquelaine says everywhere that minimum pensions are increased, he often forgets to add that this applies only to those with full careers. It's a lie out of omission. The minister is not here, but we have to tell him. The ideology behind this, Liberal colleagues, and that is what is disgusting, is that you consider that women who do not have a full career are solely responsible for this. It's their fault. It's because of their own choices. Now, you know that's not true. It's because they take care of the family, otherwise you wouldn't punish them! Prime Minister, are you going to come back to your pension minister's decision to punish women once again because they don't have a full career of 45 years? Will you finally support all pensioners who need it in this country?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, two weeks ago we had a chance to have a thorough and interesting debate here in the Chamber on IPA, as always on Thursday afternoons. And I confirm every letter of my statement two weeks ago. The interprofessional agreement is positive, the principle of the agreement is positive, because it will give more room for social peace in the future, because it is good for the competitiveness of companies and because it gives more wage margin. I also said two weeks ago that this agreement is a whole for both employers and employees. I also explained that, for both employers and trade unions, this agreement was being considered in a comprehensive manner. Each training had the opportunity to position itself. In this assembly, some critics and others express their support. They do not necessarily support each of the points of the agreement. Several groups expressed their support, generally considering the different points: more purchasing power, support for the most fragile through the welfare envelope and the ability to define additional supports related, for example, to mobility. The MR Group expressed itself in the voice of its group leader, the Deputy Prime Minister also in the decisions taken in Kern, and a position was expressed on the subject. I persist and sign. The Minister for Pensions is normally responsible for providing information to the Prime Minister and his colleagues on the consequences of the proposals of the social partners. In doing so, it does not call into question the entire interprofessional agreement, but it is a matter of considering that there is a point of attention that I want to stress here. This is the question of encouraging - support - full careers. Contrary to what you said, Mr Hedebouw, the latest increases for full careers have benefited women far more than men: 200,000 women have benefited. It's much more than for men. To be concrete, this government, for the past four years, has released more than EUR 1 billion to support lower pensions. To take the example of the minimum pensions of employees, it is 130 additional euros per month. It's very concrete, it's very specific. Another word for our colleague from the N-VA: I repeat that the government has already approved an initial IPA, which also used 100% of the welfare envelope, with the support of the N-VA. We must not forget that. What's going to happen? Simply put, the unions will continue their consultation phase, as I said two weeks ago. Once a decision has been made by the unions, it will be communicated to the government. Three types of steps must be taken. Legislative steps must be taken on a number of subjects, for which texts may be necessary. In addition, a regulatory approach must be undertaken through royal decrees. In addition, the National Labour Council will have a role to play, particularly in connection with the debate that took place here two weeks ago. I am replying to all colleagues, hoping that my remarks will clarify that nothing has changed. Not an iota has changed in two weeks on the subject. This letter cannot be interpreted as a challenge to the agreement as a whole. It is simply a way of drawing attention to this issue of full careers and an encouragement to link the pension to the work actually done. It is not a question of contesting or challenging this aspect of the agreement that has been concluded.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u10	Prime Minister, you are not answering the question. Will you follow the path of the social partners or the path of Mr Bacquelaine in raising the lowest pensions? Prime Minister, the law is the law. This is the Pact of Generations. A deal is a deal. This is the agreement of the social partners. When the social partners tell you that you have to raise all the lowest pensions, including those for incomplete careers, they know what they're doing. They want to correct actions taken by your government that disadvantage women, women workers, who are far more likely to have incomplete careers than men. That's why your measure is bad. That is why the social partners are reaching out to you and proposing that you correct it. Prime Minister, I expected a clear commitment from you to implement the proposal of the social partners with regard to the lowest pensions. You haven't clarified your position. You did not say that you were going to choose the social partners instead of Mr Bacquelaine. It's very serious. We'll follow you to the end on this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u11	Prime Minister, for once, you reassure me. You reassure me by disavowing Mr. Bacquelaine. Undoubtedly, your Minister of Pensions disregards social consultation. Undoubtedly, your Minister MR does not like people who do not have the opportunity to have a full career. You won't follow him, I'm glad.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u12	Prime Minister, I certainly have a good memory. The N-VA has indeed already approved IPAs. We also remain in favour of room for wage increases and full use of the wealth envelope. That's not the point. It is about the way in which this wealth envelope is spent 100%. The social partners are now making choices in this area which go directly against what Michel I has decided. People are so encouraged to quit early. People are not activated by increasing benefits faster than income from work. Years in which work was carried out no heavier roads than years in which no work was carried out. These are the choices made by the social partners. Mr Gilkinet is absolutely right, so the social partners are correcting the choices that Michel I has implemented. That is something we must not allow. The people are counting on a government leader to take responsibility there. The social partners and their agreements are very important, but a number of decisions must be taken by the government in the general interest of the whole population. In any case, the N-VA remains your partner to carry out that Swedish legacy further.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u13	Prime Minister, I wonder if anything you've told us has convinced Minister Bacquelaine. He's not here! I guess since this morning, there has been a little discussion between four eyes or between four ears. It's warmed up, as they say at home. But most of all, I wonder if he'll follow you. That being said, I do not agree with Mr Bacquelaine at all, but he is right on one point. This IPA project effectively corrects some of the government's reforms. In this respect, I agree with the social partners, representatives of workers and employers. This agreement enables the necessary progress to be made in correcting brutal measures that have been taken. Earlier, I kind of tickled you with that mail, the "banana skin," but in the background, I don't want to laugh. I don't want to laugh because what's going on is serious. I do not approve at all of how to make government parties, with a form of public mockery of this agreement between the social partners. Moreover, on the content, the parties that wanted to torpedo this agreement - but also your Minister of Pensions - acted disrespectfully towards the people concerned by this agreement and who sometimes have the lowest incomes. I hope, Prime Minister, that action will follow and that your words today will not only be words in the air.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u14	Mr President, Prime Minister, contrary to what Frédéric Daerden has just said, I am not reassured at all. I will never be reassured by someone like Charles Michel for the good and simple reason that you fully agree with Mr Bacquelaine's policy of making women feel guilty. You don't want to face reality. You said earlier that you raised women's pensions. In your foreground, you know that's not true. You know very well what the full career condition, on which we discussed in January 2018, implies, since 9 out of 10 women do not have a full career. Behind a so-called technical argument, there is actually a different social reality: 9 out of 10 women will not be entitled to these increases. And that's where Mr Bacquelaine comes in this morning and says, "I don't want this catch-up." That's why women and men went on strike on March 8, 2019. They went on strike because the measures that are supposedly taken linearly for everyone primarily affect women who work day and night in their professional work but also in families to care for those in need. Prime Minister, today we were expecting a statement from you in the direction of gender equality. But no one has tapped into this on the benches on the right. That's disgusting! It's not okay at all! There is clearly more than one reason to reject this PIA, including the 1.1% salary standard. You know that in trade unions, 1.1% is taken as an offence in view of the wealth produced in our country. On the issue of women's equality, it would have been necessary to make it possible to make up for minimum pensions. And you, the MR,... And you from the N-VA are against that. That's disgusting!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, even if we are playing extensions, this Parliament does not have much time left to decide on a number of measures. As you know, Prime Minister, the adoption of the national climate law is an absolute priority for the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. We hope that your party colleagues, the Christian Democrats and the Liberals will have the courage next week to seek agreements so that we can adopt a climate law before the dissolution of the Chamber. Of course, there is not only a need for a climate law with objectives. The question is also how we can achieve it. In this respect, it is very interesting to note that the Dutch climate agreement has been passed on. You regularly go on coffee with your Dutch colleague. There's a blue ash Michel-Rutte, but Mark Rutte has done more for the climate than you have. He's already made a first version of a climate agreement. That climate agreement was now passed on by the Dutch Planning Bureau. It shows that the achievement of ambitious climate objectives is really feasible, but it is important to consider how they can be financed. Where's Rutte? Maybe "Rut" would make the same mistake with n? He looks too much at ordinary people, families and the purchasing power of employees. After the transfer, the Dutch Planning Bureau also recommended a fair contribution from the largest polluters, because then it can and can achieve the ambitions. Efforts must be spread fairly. Mark Rutte went right into that. He has noticed that he really has to formulate an answer, not only on the pass-through, but also for the climate skippers who have also reached the Netherlands in the meantime. Prime Minister, you occasionally seek cooperation between Belgium and the Netherlands. This seems to me to be something on which Belgium and the Netherlands can work together. Are you prepared to look together with Mark Rutte at what form the contribution of the largest polluters can take? Should this contribution not be similar in Belgium and the Netherlands? I hope you will follow up on that suggestion. You have at least a few weeks left to do that. Make use of your privileged contacts within the European liberal family and with Mark Rutte to achieve a breakthrough in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u16	Minister, you have probably also taken note of the results of the study by the Dutch Planning Bureau on the Dutch climate law. We can draw a lot of important lessons from this for Belgium. The first finding of the Dutch Planning Bureau is that it will mainly be the families who will pay the carbon tax. The study shows very clearly that Dutch families are on average down 1.3 % by 2030 due to climate change efforts. From the cost increases to €5.2 billion by 2030, which will bring about climate and energy policy, 3 billion will be borne by families. That is what the debate is about. Who's gonna pay? That's the question. Here, an agreement has been reached with the right-wing parties on the carbon tax, and Minister Marghem himself talked about EUR 280 per year per family. It is again the weakest who will pay. The second lesson that we can draw from the report of the Dutch Planning Bureau is that the ETS system has completely failed. This is the complete failure of the carbon market. After 13 years of loss of time, Rutte itself has to establish that the ETS system is not functioning. I ask all parties, both right-wing and left-wing, to revise that system, which has completely failed, according to the Dutch Planning Bureau itself. We need to review the ETS system, because the companies just sold the quotas, to do business. Today's question is very clear. On the basis of the Netherlands report, can we conclude that, for Belgium, the ETS system must be cancelled? We must accept no longer making exceptions for large companies and impose standards on them. We have imposed standards on acid rain and standards for the protection of the ozone layer. That's how we got there, with binding standards, not with market or business. Colleagues, we can draw lessons from the conclusions of the study of the Dutch Planning Bureau. I ask the Prime Minister if he is prepared to call into question the ETS system, and I ask all my colleagues in Parliament to do the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have had the opportunity to hold a debate on our climate ambitions and the concrete measures we could take. A few weeks ago, at the end of January, I had a long and constructive discussion with the members of the Climate Coalition. A few days ago, Tuesday, my cabinet met representatives of this Climate Coalition. What are we doing? What are we trying to do, in addition to the measures we have already taken over the last four years? Firstly, I have made it clear that I am prepared to consider what further concrete measures can be taken. In addition to a positive impact, these measures should also strengthen our competitiveness. It is also necessary to support people's jobs and purchasing power. The Climate Coalition has made a number of proposals. On Tuesday I received a number of additional documents and elements through my cabinet. I've asked the Planning Bureau to make an analysis, a calculation of the situation. In the next few days, I'll get a first report on this. I will also deliver the new documents I received on Tuesday to the Planning Bureau. I also asked the National Bank for a report on this matter. My point is this. I do not want to have this debate with the Netherlands alone, Mr Calvo, because I do not think that would be reasonable. I want a European green deal. I am pleased to note that some have evolved in this area in recent weeks. I repeat, however, that an answer must be given especially at European level. On Tuesday I had a meeting with Mrs Merkel and last week with Mr Macron. There will be another European Council next week. We call for an industrial strategy at European level. The climate objectives should be used as leverage for more jobs, more investment and more added value. In this context, the issue of funding is very important. Mr Hedebouw, I do not want, as you do, to reduce everything simplisticly and caricatureally. What we do not want, unlike others, is for this climate issue to become an excuse to tax ever more and to make the capacity for employment, investment and thus to put into difficulty the most fragile of which were mentioned a few moments ago in the debate on the inter-professional agreement. On the contrary, we believe that climate change must be seen as an opportunity, thanks to innovation, investment, energy performance and alternative mobility solutions, to meet this concern in a way compatible with sustainable economic development. In sustainable development, there is sustainable development as well as development, which means ensuring that the living environment can be improved. It is the debate that must be conducted. We will use the days that separate us from the end of this Parliament to try to move forward the discussions and proposals. But I also face up to each other's responsibilities. To be serious is not simply, as has been the case in this Parliament for a few months, to express bad guilt or spectacular ambitions. It also explains how climate goals are met while supporting purchasing power, investment, jobs and economic development.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u18	Mr President, Prime Minister, of course my question about cooperation with the Netherlands is not a plea for cooperation with the Netherlands alone. Now that the Dutch Planning Agency has completed its exercise and Mark Rutte has finally formulated a number of ideas, we need to get to work on this. For example, our group is very much in favour of moving towards a European carbon frontier tax. You are right to point out that the future of our manufacturing industry is essential. Colleagues, we believe that a European carbon border tax is just a way to achieve climate ambition and strengthen our industry. Such a charge will eliminate the dumping of polluting products on the European and Belgian markets and the false competition with our companies. That is a first point that you need to work on. Secondly, in order to do more than just study, direction can also be given to political choices. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going anywhere. There must be concrete points on the table. Ladies and gentlemen, that is what we have done today. I invite everyone to visit the website of Groen later. Today, we have stuck our necks out to put on the table a quantified plan for climate ambition and purchasing power towards 2030. Mr Dewael, in that plan we make a very clear choice not to place the invoice and the cost of the extra investment on the families or on the people who work, but on the big polluters. Prime Minister, I invite you to read our plan. I also invite you to take a good look at the Dutch Planning Bureau's accounts. Your colleague in the Netherlands has already learned the necessary lessons from this calculation. It can also be a good inspiration for Belgian policy. You've been Prime Minister of this country for at least a few weeks. Use that time well, to finally become Prime Minister of Climate Change.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u19	Prime Minister, a taboo is finally beginning to be lifted: at last we dare to talk about the industry. You have addressed today the action of the industry, which you have hardly done in the last six weeks. You mentioned two reports that you expect in the coming days: one from the National Bank and one from the Planning Office. I hope that these reports will have studied, as in the Netherlands, the effectiveness or otherwise of the ETS system. The debate in the Netherlands is on this subject. When you talk about carbon tax, you obviously make an exceptional exemption for the 306 multinationals that are in the ETS system. When the Liberals talk about a carbon tax, it's for SMEs and families because the big multinationals have the ETS system. That system, according to Mark Rutte, didn't work. In Belgium, and I do not know why, the taboo on the carbon quota system is ubiquitous in the debate. No one is calling this ETS into question. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like us to do a job of understanding why the system did not work in the Netherlands. It did not work because as long as companies find it cheaper to sell pollution quotas, they will have to do nothing. Standards have been put in place for acid rain and the ozone layer, and this has produced results. These standards were not only indicative but also binding. Why don't we do the same for CO2? That's everyone's question. Until we do this, we will continue with ridiculous reductions of 1.74 per cent per year, while the IPCC is asking us for reductions of about 10 per cent if we want to achieve results. We will go straight into the wall if we do not take more radical measures.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u20	Prime Minister, after the referendum of more than three years ago, the Brexitsaga is more and more like a neverending story. Theresa May proposed to the House of Commons: either it becomes my deal, or it becomes the no deal. Unfortunately, the House of Commons voted against the withdrawal agreement and also decided never to accept a no deal and to completely exclude that option. In this wonderful world of Theresa May there is a lot of voice on the assembly line, but to this day it is not clear how this will end. Colleagues, people are going to feel a bit like Alice in Brexitland. What's the next move? What events await us? Meanwhile, the Brexit clock is ticking unforgivingly. There are some scenarios on the table, Prime Minister. There could be a British demand for the EU to extend Article 50 in order to get more time. That is possible, but of course it must not be merely a postponement of execution. It must also be clear what the British want. I also refer to the proposal for a customs union of Prime Minister Geert Bourgeois, which seems to us to be a very workable alternative and certainly deserves praise. In any case, a request for postponement means that everyone has to agree. That's why I'm asking. What will you be arguing for next week with your European colleagues? To what extent should the British's proposals be serious? If they're not, will you join the story of a hard Brexit?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u21	Prime Minister, the world is watching with increasing amazement the spectacle of the past few days in the British Parliament, the mother of parliament. It is unbelievable how easy British political class has been to shoot more and more in the foot in recent days. It's kind of like Comedy Capers, so to speak. We all know what the British do not want, because they regularly make that clear in parliament. Everyone raises the question of what the United Kingdom wants and I believe that this question should be the basis of the reflection you will have with the 27 Member States in order to take a common position on this matter. It was all nice, taking back control, but when one sees what happens these days, the UK seems out of control to me. Then I come to the point raised by Mr Luykx: they will ask for a postponement. My question to you is therefore: to do what exactly? I do not know how long it will take to re-say a week or two weeks before the deadline expires. In my view, this is the attitude that our country should adopt: to return the elevator and demand that the UK gets out of it first and makes it clear what it wants, otherwise the British attitude will cripple the European Union. Anyway, for me, it shouldn't be a delay. My next question follows immediately. European elections are coming up. It would be unthinkable, after all the fuss that has been caused over the past few weeks and months, that the British should participate in the European elections and continue to be part of a club that they swore they wanted to leave. Finally, what could be the consequences of a hard Brexit, is today seen at the border with France by the action of customs officers. To what extent has our country made progress in taking the necessary measures to be prepared for everything, so as far as I am concerned also for a hard Brexit?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u22	Prime Minister, we have long known that there is an English specificity, a United Kingdom lifestyle, an English humor, a breakfast, the cup of tea, driving to the left, etc. But we are quite surprised at what is happening now. The population, too, is finding it increasingly difficult to understand what will happen to this Brexit, which tends to be more and more like a form of collective suicide. Something's getting out of our way! Therefore, we knew (and this has just been recalled by my colleagues) that important votes had to be taken. The political consequences of the first two votes can already be drawn. If Britain does not want a no deal, it nevertheless wants an agreement other than that negotiated by Michel Barnier in recent months. Mr Prime Minister, will you defend in the Council of Europe next week a complete or partial reopening of the agreement with Michel Barnier or is the Belgian position to maintain the position adopted by the 27 on the inviolability of the agreement? Prime Minister, there is also the question of the Brexit calendar, on 29 March; the European elections, on 26 May... What would be the acceptable reasons for the 27, in order to postpone Brexit without undermining the proper conduct of the elections to the European Parliament? Finally, the consequences of this triple vote are great for our country. You've already referred to it. Our Parliament has just passed a specific law. But in concrete terms, what measures, both in terms of personnel and logistics, are needed in your eyes to overcome the challenges posed by the Brexit adventure?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u23	Prime Minister, when I first asked a question in plenary two and a half years ago, that was a question for you and concerned the Brexit. Two and a half years later, many questions are still being asked about this in committee and in plenary. I come again today with a question about the Brexit, because yesterday the British Parliament sent a signal that it is opposed to a no deal. Which way it goes, we don't really know very well. We can make many predictions about this, but the only thing we are sure of is that all these predictions will be wrong. What remains very clear after two and a half years is our position. Our position is that we regret the choice made by the British and that we must above all ensure that the impact of the Brexit on our future and prosperity is limited as much as possible. We must minimise the uncertainty of our businesses and our citizens by preparing ourselves for an effective Brexit as best we can. We did that. We have tried to prepare in the last two years. There is now an emergency law, which is being dealt with in the Chamber, with measures and those measures are needed. If we want to secure our jobs, our businesses, our prosperity, we will have to act quickly and decisively in a Brexit or in a no deal. Our services must also be on track. Mr Dewael referred to this earlier: last week, among other things, our customs services suggested that companies might have to take a commercial break. I don't think that's a good idea. We must send a signal to our companies that they can trust that our country is ready to cope with any Brexit. That should be as efficient as possible. We must dare to think about introducing a transitional policy so that our SMEs and other companies have some room to adapt to the new situation arising from the Brexit. Hence my two questions to you, Prime Minister. Firstly, what is the situation with regard to the preparation of our administrations and our customs services with a view to a possible Brexit? Are you prepared to consider a short transitional period for our SMEs? Secondly, what position will our country adopt on the postponement of a possible Brexit?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u24	Mr President, I admit that there is more and more the impression that the Brexit is becoming a strange and perhaps also a bad feuilleton, with problematic consequences, especially in the UK. However, the Brexit may also lead to difficulties in the European Union, Belgium in particular. That is why we are very alert and active in this regard. I will give you a few elements to share my information with Parliament. I have had many European talks in recent days. Last week I also spoke twice by phone with Theresa May and I spoke a few times with Michel Barnier's team and with the European Commission. A few days ago, an agreement had been reached on a legal interpretative statement. That was a way of clarifying the agreement reached at the end of last year, and it was again an effort on the part of the British Parliament to give it another chance to express its support for this agreement and to give more opportunities for a prospect of stability in the next few weeks and months. Unfortunately, the British Parliament made a different choice on Tuesday. Yesterday there was another vote and again, with a small majority, a wrong choice was made in my view. Other votes are planned in the next few hours in the British Parliament, as you know. What is the state of affairs in Belgium and at European level? Belgium is permanently in a logic of consultation with the Länder. Tomorrow morning we have a coordination meeting with the Länder: we are following the situation with them day after day. There is more and more talk of a possible extension of Article 50. What is our view of this a priori? We believe that an extension of Article 50 would only make sense if we were given a justification, a new element, a clarification of the UK between today and the time when such a decision should be taken. This means, in our view, that what is needed is not necessarily more time, but more clarity from the British Parliament. What is needed is a clear decision by the British Parliament. I share the reasoning that we have seen in recent weeks and months what the British Parliament absolutely does not want, but we do not know today what it wants. The basic difficulty is the backstop. The backstop is not a detail, because the Good Friday Agreement significantly ensured peace and stability in Ireland. However, with the red line of the British Parliament, it is not possible to offer a perspective and at the same time a guarantee of loyal competition between our companies and British companies tomorrow. This is a fundamental point with regard to the integrity of our internal market within the European Union. Colleagues, you will understand that we are following this subject closely, day after day, hour after hour, with the federated entities. As we announced in Parliament several months and weeks ago, we prepared ourselves by introducing proposals to strengthen the capacity of our services concerned with the possible impact of an unordered Brexit. These are additional capacity for customs, for the Economic Inspectorate, for the Federal Agency for Food Chain Security. Additional resources will be requested from Parliament, within the budgetary framework, to enable recruitment. Moreover, as mentioned earlier, we want to make every effort to ensure the continuity of economic activity with small, medium and large enterprises. It is in this context that hard work is carried out by the various departments. Finally, I want to point out that our wish remains – we are constant: to maintain in the future a stable, predictable but close relationship with Britain in economic and commercial terms, but also in terms of security, geopolitical challenges, etc. On all these issues, we want to cooperate closely. Finally, I would like to say a few words about citizens' rights, which is also an important element. We have taken initiatives to safeguard rights, with a call for maximum reciprocity, to safeguard the fundamental rights of our European citizens in the United Kingdom as well. As you can see, we follow the situation day by day, hour by hour. On the basis of a British position in favour of a request for an extension, we will be able, according to the reason for this request, which is a new element, to assess in consultation the type of attitude we will adopt, in unity and loyalty with our European partners.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u25	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answers. Everyone here would have preferred to avoid a Brexit, but we must now be prepared for all scenarios. Yesterday, in the Flemish Parliament, an emergency decree was adopted to take sufficient measures to the extent possible at that level. Here, too, there are things that we can deal with in concrete terms. Mr Dewael already referred to the customs problems at the border with France. The food industry is important for Flanders. I would therefore like to call on you to provide sufficient inspectors for the Federal Agency for the Safety of the Food Chain. Mr Ducarme has to work on this, so that we do not lag further behind in the future. Flanders, which will be hit hardest by a possible Brexit, is already suffering enough in this area. Finally, I am pleased to hear from you that consultations will take place. I asked you a question on 17 January. Better late than never, it is important for this consultation with the Regions to take place.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u26	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your reply. What now weighs enormously is the continuing uncertainty. I would like to emphasise that. No one has any interest in this continuing uncertainty, not in the UK but also here. We have not opted for a Brexit, which is a choice the British themselves have made. We must respect the principle of law applicable to it, in particular that no one can be forced to remain undivided. That's a legal principle. Expulsion without delay is therefore not an option. If a postponement is considered, this must be conditional. What exactly is the deadline for what to do? We must have an answer to that question. I note that the two-party system in the UK leads to polarisation. I see with increasing amazement that the British political class will not get out of it. It may not be up to us to make statements about this, but I believe that circles will continue to run under the guidance of the current Prime Minister. After all, it is also a question of political authority, political authority within a government, but also within a parliament and ultimately vis-à-vis the European Union. I therefore call for a common position of the 27 which makes it clear that if the British have made that choice, we have done everything we can to prepare ourselves for the sausage case. I insist that your resigning government should take the necessary measures to prepare us for the sausage case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u27	Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. I note that, since the start of the Brexit adventure that we did not want, you have taken all the necessary steps to put our country in a position to deal with the situation. Of course, the situation has changed and things are getting more complicated, but come and say that it is better late than ever when you are organising a meeting with the Flemish Community in particular, I find it excessive. You have taken the necessary steps in the interests of our country as a whole, regardless of the region. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to another item that will be on the agenda. It is a question of examining, given the Brexit, what will be the consequences for a relaunch of the European project, so that Europe can regain a new breath. Here too, I trust your wisdom, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u28	Mr Prime Minister, we do know what they do not want in the United Kingdom, but we do not know what they do want. The question is, of course, whether we still want what they want to do. That is, of course, the great question, the question of clarity, which, of course, must also come before us. This clarity, for our country and for the European Union, is primarily about timing, content and conditions. I am confident that you will make the right choices and impose the right conditions there. Of course, we also need clarification for our companies. That's very important. You said that efforts are indeed being made for our customs officers, that additional inspectors will be recruited for the food agency. We must show our companies that we are ready for the Brexit. We must give this clarity to our businesses and citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u29	Mr. Laaouej, a little word?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u30	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I should have spoken at the beginning of the sitting, and I understand that. But I would like to point out that we wish to ask the Prime Minister also about this traffic in visas. But we were told that the minister did not want to answer the question and that it should be addressed to Mrs De Block. I now discover that Mr. Vuye has the opportunity – and so much better for him – to question the Prime Minister. You will understand that we are upset. Fernandez was ready to question the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u31	Mr Laaouej, I must tell you that I have given a lot of thought to this problem. The manner in which Mr. Vuye formulated his question implied that no one other than the Prime Minister could answer that question. Therefore, it is because of the wording used by Mr. Vuye that he can ask the Prime Minister his question. Yes, Mrs. Fonck?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u32	Mr President, as you know, Mr Dallemagne has a question on the same subject. It's the same thing, anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u33	No, Mrs Fonck, Mr Dallemagne addressed the Minister of the Interior. And depending on what I read, it was a completely different question. Mr Vuye, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u34	Mr Prime Minister, yesterday Mrs De Block presented her report to the Committee on the Interior. I only have one word for that. The report's deceptive. By the way, it was remarkably quiet on Twitter. After all, it turns out that the rescue of 1,500 Christians from the claws of IS is fake news. The fact that they all applied for asylum and got it is also fake news. It also appears that 121 of them are even missing. The existence of a closing procedure is fake news. The existence of a strict and just asylum policy is fake news. Sloppyness and negligence are better terms in this respect. Also the claim that these are all vulnerable people is fake news. In fact, the Committee on the Interior has come to say that it is not known whether the people on the list of Aalst are vulnerable. People hope so. The icing on the cake is that someone who apparently committed serious crimes in Syria has come to Belgium with a humanitarian Francken visa. Is that strict and just? Is that an accomplice of Assad's saved from the claws of IS? Prime Minister, we are facing a major democratic problem here. That's what my question is about. If the government had not fallen, we would never have known the above. In that case, there would never have been a De Block report. Parliament has not been able to control Theo Francken. This control has not been carried out within the government either. Those who read Myria's report saw that, under Mr Francken, the figures for humanitarian visas increased tenfold, from two hundred under Mrs De Block in 2014 to more than 2 300 under Mr Francken. Didn't anyone in the government ask themselves any questions? A hierarchy has grown in recent decades within the government, with a Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Ministers who are the decision-makers and are part of the nuclear cabinet, including trade ministers and State Secretary, who have also been assigned to a minister. Secretary of State Francken was assigned to Mr Jambon. However, Mr Jambon did not notice anything. Prime Minister, you too have defended Mr Francken and Mr Francken's policy on several occasions. Apparently, you didn't notice anything either. My question is this. Who in the government is still politically responsible for the behaviour of some State Secretarys and for the way in which they have exercised their powers?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when we had taken note of the first information on the story of humanitarian visas and when we had taken note of the judicial investigation, I immediately said on behalf of the government and the Minister responsible that we would respect maximum transparency with Parliament. We did that. We have provided clarity with an administrative inquiry. In a democracy, it is indeed the duty of a government, our duty, to provide clarity in all transparency, so that lessons can be drawn from it for the future and control can be strengthened. I have said this a few times, and I have confirmed that the principle of humanitarian visas remains important to us. Increasing the number of humanitarian visas is an argument that I have used a few times here because it shows us that we have taken into account an international situation, with many crises at international level. Within the various responsibilities of a government there was the responsibility of a Secretary of State to make the decision. That is not new, that was the procedure in the past. I want to be clear. The facts which we were informed of yesterday in committee are extremely serious. Like many others, I am shocked by that information. There is a question that may never be answered. If there had been no government in current cases, and that is perhaps a lucky thing for the Secretary of State, he probably should have resigned, given the facts.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u36	Mr President, Prime Minister, thank you for your reply. Mrs De Block did indeed offer full transparency in committee yesterday. The former Secretary of State is now saying that we should not play political games. That is a bit like Popeye saying that we should stop eating spinach or Mr Francken saying that we should stop tweeting. This is not a political game, we simply note that there are too few checks and balances built into our system to prevent such things. That's bad, because if there hadn't been a government in current cases, there wouldn't have been a De Block report either. This is a failure of the political system, of Parliament and of the government. I would like to point out that this is not the only file. There is also the dossier of the Libyan funds. No one released those funds, but they're free. There too, there is a similar lack of transparency on the part of everyone. There will be no report on this, for the simple reason that the responsible or his party is most likely still part of the government and that the participation will keep that pot covered.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u37	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of this week we were able to read the report issued by the IMF on the Belgian economy. This report is particularly positive. In particular, he cited real GDP per capita, which had returned to a level higher than it was before the crisis. He also talks about unemployment, which fell to a level below what we knew four decades ago. This is obviously a good thing, and it is a good thing to relate to the action of our government. The report also cites the budget deficit that is reduced to less than 1% of our GDP in this year 2018. He also talks about our fiscal debt, which has begun a downward spiral since, for 2019, the IMF expects it to be below 100% of GDP. That's a very good thing. All these results have, of course, been made possible by all the structural, fiscal reforms that the government has undertaken, including corporate tax reform, pension reform and the reduction of social security contributions, and more tax cuts for workers. The work is obviously not finished. We must remain ambitious, proactive, especially as the IMF expects more moderate growth in the coming years. That is how we must continue to strengthen the potential of our economy. The labour market should be made more inclusive, especially for young people, older workers, for allochtonians. We must also continue to invest in our infrastructure and, of course, continue to reduce the debt. Minister, what is your analysis of this report? Have any particular points caught your attention? If so, which ones? In addition, in your opinion, what are the first projects that should be tackled?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Friart, I shall be brief. Like you, I read the IMF report. It is very important to stress what is positive. The IMF congratulates us on our good performance after the global financial crisis. We are again above the pre-crisis level. You have pointed out that the unemployment rate has been at its lowest level in four decades. The IMF says it's not a coincidence. The fiscal and structural reforms you have reported are again welcomed. Like other institutions, the IMF is also a bit pessimistic for 2019, with GDP growth of 1.3%. Here too, the main causes are the growing geopolitical tensions and economic uncertainties within the euro area, for example in Italy, and also the aftermath of Brexit. However, the IMF expects our economic growth from 2020 to 2024 to be 1.5 per cent of GDP, which is much more favourable than the Plan Bureau's forecast, which launched the 1.1 per cent figure. Other estimates are generally favourable, but the IMF also says that we must not rely on our laurels. As you have already noted, we must continue to work continuously to improve the situation of our economy, our businesses, competitiveness, the labour market and investment. In conclusion, the IMF is positive. That's not always the case. We need to work on the idea that we are not at the end of our sentences, but we have already taken very positive steps in the eyes of the IMF and for all of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u39	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. Indeed, this report, like others, is a recognition of all the work the government is doing. It is an encouragement to pursue this policy. We mustn't stop in such a good way. There is a need for further in-depth reform. The National Pact for Strategic Investments, dear to our Prime Minister, will certainly enable us to achieve other objectives. These reforms are necessary in order to continue to make our country ever more prosperous and dynamic.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u40	Before giving the floor to Mr Dallemagne, Mrs Jiroflée, would you like to speak?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u41	Mr President, I have tabled a question on urgent medical aid to the Minister for Health. The Minister of Health is competent. Maybe she doesn't like answering that question. The Minister is also here. I do not understand why my question was suddenly addressed to Mr De Crem? I have addressed my question to the Minister of Health. It is competent and it is not prevented because it will reply to other questions within a few moments.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u42	Your first and third points are correct. The second point is not, it is the Minister for the Interior who is responsible for this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u43	I doubt that, Mr President. There are KBs that have been signed by the Minister of Health and which are about that urgent medical assistance. I have one of these as an example. I do not see why the Minister of Health should not be responsible for this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u44	Mrs Jiroflée, the assessment is in two stages. First of all, in consultation with the services, I naturally consider the competence to be a matter of course. If it turns out that another minister is competent, whatever it was this morning, we will transfer the question to the Minister responsible. If he accepts the question in turn, this implies that he also considers that he is competent; hence the decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u45	I cannot get rid of the impression that this is a bit of an obstacle to Parliament's powers of control.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u46	That's not true, Mrs. Jiroflée. That is an intention process that is not at all correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u47	Mr Minister, your colleague in charge of the Asylum yesterday presented an administrative report on what it has agreed to call the "visagate" of former Secretary of State Theo Francken. Since the report emanates from the administration, it is in principle neutral and impartial. Particularly cunning, it represents a veritable paving stone in the pond, where we learn that a new migration channel had been opened through opaque procedures. These were decided despite consideration of criteria such as vulnerability and disregard for security controls. These practices have been exercised on a collective basis, sometimes based on very imprecise lists. In some cases, nationality was not even known, nor was the date of birth – which, however, constitutes basic information – of persons applying for a humanitarian visa, which was nevertheless granted. It is also known that at least 121 people have disappeared in nature. Moreover, it was reported this morning that at least one of them was suspected of crimes committed in the service of the Bashar al-Assad regime. The latter is on our territory. In any case, she obtained a humanitarian visa. We therefore see how the basic rules in terms of security control have been flouted. The consequences are now visible. In addition, it appears that the BNG (General National Police Data Bank) has not been consulted. My questions will be simple, Mr. Minister of the Interior. First of all, what can you tell us about this particular case? Has he been apprehended? Will he be held accountable for his actions before the courts? Is there a systematic screening of applicants now? We have little information about them. More generally, would this have happened if the basic rules of good governance and individual case review had been respected and normal procedures followed? Will we finally have rules that will be observed during the review of humanitarian visas? This tool seems extremely valuable to me. The deviousness that we have witnessed, coming from someone who was particularly intransigent and rigorous in the respect of the rules, has actually served a clientelist system, far removed from any humanitarian concern. I hope that this will no longer be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u48	Mr Dallemagne, the president asked me to be concise. The Federal Police informs me that they have not at any time been asked to check those who are in the process of obtaining a humanitarian visa. Neither the Office of Foreigners nor the cabinet of former Secretary of State Franken have asked the police to do so. It is clear, however, that police databases are more comprehensive than those of the State Security. This seems to me to be a possible problem for our security and by extension for the whole Schengen area. The arrest of Melikan Kucam's brother-in-law does not rule out a possible link between Antwerp's criminal circles and the humanitarian visa file. The judicial investigation is under way. It cannot therefore be ruled out that persons have, in another way - for example, subsequently, as asylum seekers - still been checked through police databases. I will immediately ask my colleague Minister De Block to forward to the Federal Police a list of these humanitarian visas issued, in excess of 1,000, for verification in the police databases, starting with the 121 people who have apparently not yet applied for asylum but have indeed obtained a humanitarian visa. With regard to the person who would have worked for the Assad regime, as mentioned yesterday in the Committee on the Interior, I can inform you that my services have asked the Foreign Office to communicate the name of the person concerned. As soon as the name is communicated to them, this person will be screened as soon as possible. With regard to opacity, the exercise of the discretion of Secretary of State Franken has therefore led to a situation where police databases have not been consulted in the context of the issuance of humanitarian visas. Here's my answer at this point.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u49	Minister, thank you for your answers. It is particularly distressing and shocking to see how those who claimed to embody rigour, the rule of law, impartiality have led to people being today unidentifiable in nature. At least one person is now suspected of being a torturer of the Bashar al-Assad regime. It's a shock! We must think of the tens of thousands of people who have suffered the cruelty of this regime. It is a shock to think that Belgium could have contributed, through this Secretary of State, to exfiling such a character here! I hope we can do a rigorous review of all individual cases. The idea is to return to the concept of a humanitarian visa, that is, to protect vulnerable people and not to serve a clientelist system and, in some cases, mafia with extortion of funds.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u50	'Mrs' the Minister, that is how I address you, because various documents show that urgent medical assistance, on which I am asking a question, is the responsibility of the Minister for Health. On the matter, if people are in need, they must be assured that they are also being helped. Today there is no such security of care; still not, I dare say. Three years ago, someone called 911 and didn't get in because of the thunderstorm at the time. That person died at the time. To avoid such situations, the number 1722 was installed. Today we see that the problem remains. Also last weekend, the family of someone who had a stroke tried to call the emergency power station and failed at all. Luckily, the man survived. Colleagues, that is unacceptable. Hours of waiting at an emergency power station I read that it's about hours. It's unacceptable. It is unacceptable not to be helped in the event of urgent need. Each emergency power station currently has a staff shortage of between 20% and 40%. That is a shortage of 300 employees to help people in need. Let it be clear that the number 1722 is a very good initiative, but it can only work if there are enough staff and if people know what incident they need to call to which number. Last Sunday during the storm there were not only waiting times for the number 1722, but also for emergency numbers 112 and 101. In the meantime, do you have an idea of the duration of the waiting periods, because that was unclear? The emergency power plant trade unions have long demanded an awareness campaign for the use of numbers. What number should one use in which case? They have also been asking for extra staff for a long time. Are you prepared to go into that? When will that happen?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u51	Mr Jiroflée, when you talk about the long waiting times, I think that a distinction should be made between the exceptional situation of the last few days with the activation of the number 1722 and the regular operation of the emergency power stations 112 and 101. The number 1722 is not an emergency number, but it is a number to which citizens can call for help in case of non-life-threatening damage caused by the storm, such as blown-away roof tiles, a fallen tree or obstructions. By the way, there has been a code of yellow throughout the country since 11:00 a.m. until an hour to be determined in the evening. The number 1722 is still active at the moment. The number 1722 was activated by my services in good time last Saturday and 115 calls were received on Saturday. On Sunday there were 80 807 calls. On Monday the number of calls had fallen to 5 981 and on Tuesday there were 1 572 calls. It is clear that this has also had an impact on the calls to emergency number 112. The fact that some callers, citizens, who could not reach 1722 immediately, did call 112 or even 101, has helped to improve the situation cited. Also calling back for the same demand has unnecessarily burdened the power stations. By the way, I would like to make it clear that even with fully-stocked staffing frameworks that influx of calls into this exceptional situation could not have been dealt with quickly. A minimum operating time quickly takes one to two minutes. Last Sunday thirty operators were added to the treatment of the calls. The emergency centres' staff frameworks 112 and 101 have been completed today for around 80%. It is true that there are differences between the centres. I have already had the opportunity to visit many of those power stations, which are often housed in police buildings. Some centres have a higher staff shortage than others. Specifically, I can answer your question that new staff will be recruited this year to reduce deficits. However, staff members are in a special, separate staff regulations, with shifts other than those of the aid staff and the police services, but you are aware of this. Several other measures are being taken to reduce the number of calls per plant. There is also a pilot project, especially the interactive voice response, with a choice menu 112/101. That project has been evaluated over the past difficult weekend and that evaluation has taught us that the use of that technology has a positive impact on reducing both the number of useless calls and the number of times calls have to be forwarded from 112 to 101 or vice versa.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u52	You must conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u53	I intend to roll that technology out all over the country this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u54	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. In your speech, you merely illustrated my statement that new and more staff are urgently needed. You're talking about 30 extra staff, but there's a need for 300 extra staff. I am pleased to hear about your pilot project and I hope it is true that there will be more staff before the end of the year, but I remain convinced that this is not enough and that there should be a special system in which reserves can be deployed on days like last Sunday. Mr. Secretary, it's the week of care. The least one can expect in a prosperous and civilised country is that there is security of care. If you are in need, you must be able to count on help. There is an urgent need to change this, because unfortunately this is not the case today.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u55	We now come to the questions to Minister De Block. She will also respond to questions addressed to Minister Bellot, who could not be present for personal reasons but was quite legitimate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u56	Mr President, Minister, the number of asylum applications continues to peak. Today, Eurostat announced that in 2018 the number of asylum applications in Europe decreased by 11% compared to 2017, while in our country it increased by 19% from 19 688 in 2017 to 23 443 last year. In January of this year there was also a record number of asylum applications and also in February there was an increase of 17.5% from 1 757 to 2 063. You have drawn up a plan to create 3 250 new shelters and 1 500 buffers. However, this leads to chaos on the ground. Here and there, buildings must be sought by the Red Cross, Fedasil and so on. This is usually done according to the classic method. One seeks, finds and concludes a contract, and only then will there be communication with the municipal and city authorities and with the local residents, with all the consequences. Now an asylum centre would also be opened in Antwerp, near the celebrated mayor of our city, Bart De Wever, in particular in a monastery in Deurne, while a city like Antwerp is already receiving the largest number of recognised refugees. Like many large cities, Antwerp is a hub for all the problems that people do not want elsewhere, from asylum seekers to illegals to drug addicts and homeless people. You name it, it all comes to the big cities. On top of that, it seems to me to be a very bad idea to impose additional burdens on the big cities with new reception centres. Much better, Madam Minister, would of course be to pursue a stricter policy and reform the Geneva Convention so that we no longer have to accept asylum seekers from outside Europe. This, however, is quite aside. Let us talk about asylum centres. I'd like to hear from you what your plans are. Why isn't there more openness to the municipal authorities about that kind of center? What are your specific plans? Which centres will be added to create the 3 250 additional places and 1 500 buffer places? You will undoubtedly want to give us all the openness in this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u57	Mr President, Mr Dewinter, the number of asylum applications has indeed been increasing since July 2018 to an average of 2 000 per month. That number is still far from the high numbers in 2015, when there were peaks to 7 000 applications per month. Moreover, it is not true that there is a strong increase in the first two months of 2019 compared to 2018. We are at the level of the second half of 2018. The inflow has been increased, but is manageable, provided that measures are taken. These measures were taken by my predecessor at the end of September and early November. I also asked the Council of Ministers to open a number of additional buffer seats to prevent families with children from ending up on the streets during and after Christmas leave. After all, it is our duty to give people proper care, pending the decision on their application. Of course, there is also an action plan to control the influx and accelerate the outflow. This action plan was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 15 February. It also gives my administrations more resources to be able to function normally after the permanent state of crisis they have been in since the summer. It is also true that Fedasil can create additional places as long as it is needed. Fedasil or its partners, usually is that the Red Cross, visits and research all new places and buildings proposed by private or public persons to qualify as a shelter. The vacant rest house in Deurne is one of the slopes currently under investigation. As soon as Fedasil is able to make the necessary legal arrangements to use a new site as a shelter, and when it is also financially calculated, I personally contact the local government and give information to local residents. That's the normal process. There's nothing wrong with the services visiting a site, is there? This is about the possibility of providing 125 places for people with disabilities. We are therefore looking for a specific infrastructure.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u58	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. The figures published by Eurostat today are clear. There is a decrease of 11% across Europe in 2017 but no matter how we turn it, in our country there was an increase of 19% in 2018. There's no way around that. There are reasons for that, and I believe I know it. Our country has a far too lax policy. Our country remained under Francken and De Block, but certainly under Francken, an attraction pole, a magnet for new asylum seekers. As far as the search for new shelters is concerned, we must protect cities from such centres. A general rule must be proclaimed by you: if there are more than 15% to 20% of foreigners living in a city or municipality, then none of such asylum centres may be scheduled. I hope you will consider that measure, including for Deurne.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u59	Madam Minister, I will start with a quote: "The voluntary termination of pregnancy must be in the health field and be covered by social security. In addition, it should cease to be considered a crime or an offence and be removed from the Criminal Code or Criminal Code." This is what the Minister-President of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation said yesterday in the United Nations rostrum. That is true, for us socialists, the right to freely dispose of his body is a fundamental right. The position of Belgium in the United Nations is clear and much clearer, Madam Minister, than the position and actions of the former majority of this Parliament. Do I have to remind you that there is still no total decriminalisation of abortion in Belgium? Do I also have to remind you that this means that criminal sanctions are still possible for both doctors and women who have abortions? This Tuesday, Madam Minister, in the Health Committee, we passed a bill to expand access to contraception. The Socialists have thus made it possible to extend the free contraception to all women under 25 years of age, but also the free pill of the next day, regardless of the age of the woman. This is a great step already highlighted by the planning, by many doctors and also by women's associations. The only party that has opposed it is the N-VA, but we are used to it in these areas. Very quickly, Madam Minister, you announced that you were not going to put these measures into action, arguing that this was supposedly not possible in day-to-day business. Do I need to remind you how many measures with budgetary impacts have already been voted by this government in day-to-day business? The impact of the measure, Madam Minister, is six million euros. It was your staff member who came to tell us in committee. Isn't women's freedom worth six million euros? That's what I'm asking you today, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u60	Ms. Lalieux, access to contraceptives is an essential condition for women's sexual freedom. On Tuesday, the Committee on Public Health did indeed accept a bill which provides for an extension of the reimbursement of certain contraceptives until the age of 25 instead of 21 years and the next day's pill without age limit. This proposal has not yet been adopted by this plenary. The commission decided, however, that the King could determine its entry into force. We immediately asked INAMI to calculate the budgetary impact of these two measures. According to the latter, it amounts to approximately € 6.7 million per year. Of course, this budget was not yet foreseen and must be added to the INAMI budget before the royal decree of entry into force can be adopted. I would also like to point out that such a royal decree must first be discussed in the insurance committee. We know that INAMI's budget is different from other budgets. The measure for the reimbursement for young women has recently been evaluated. On the basis of this assessment, it was decided at the Council of Ministers on 18 January to extend the reimbursement, which was also requested by the field. This decree provides for an expansion of contraceptives, including IUD and subcutaneous implants, which can be delivered by hospitals to young patients. It will be published in the coming months. Not later than last month, I received Sensoa's congratulations for the contraceptive policy in Belgium. According to the European Contraception Atlas, access to contraceptives in our country and in France is the best in Europe. This very high score is due in particular to the very strong general and structural measures of reimbursement and special arrangements for young people and vulnerable groups. We are not going to argue about this, but it is certain that the INAMI budget follows a circuit other than all the other budgets voted in Parliament. That must be respected. That's all we said.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u61	Madam Minister, I have remained very calm. You're the one who's pissed off. There's no problem. I will continue to remain very calm. In fact, 6.7 million of this seems to me little to strengthen freedom, the fundamental right of women, while Belgium advocates it at the United Nations level and Mr. De Croo pleaded for four years all over the world. We know that if you want to make this proposal and if you put it on the INAMI table, INAMI will approve it. I'll remind you that soon, you'll be making a gift of...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u62	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u63	Minister, I didn't cut you off and I'm not upset. I would also like to remind you that in a week you will be giving a gift of 100 million euros to pharmaceutical companies. I ask you today to make a choice; a choice for women and not for the pharmaceutical lobby. I'm counting on you. Women are counting on you. I hope that this government in day-to-day affairs will not again disappoint women, like all the measures you have taken against them in recent years.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u64	Madam Minister, my question is actually addressed to Minister Bellot, so thank you for making the effort to answer on his behalf. I begin my brief question with a quote from the coalition agreement: "The government will instruct Belgocontrol to draw up, after consultation with the social partners, a proposal which, in the event of a strike, nevertheless provides for a guaranteed service. Priority will be given to social dialogue and the right to strike will not be undermined." Today, this passage from the coalition agreement is more topical than ever, except for the name change of Belgocontrol in skeyes of course. Last month air traffic controllers participated eagerly in the national strike day and yesterday there were several actions in the airports. I do not have to tell you what the financial impact of such actions is, but of course it also affects travellers. It will only happen to you, unfortunately, I speak from experience of being stuck at the airport for six hours, with a six-month baby on one arm and with a two-year-old toddler on the other hand. For a stranded traveller that is a very stressful way to start his holiday, which he has been looking forward to for a long time and for which he has also paid a lot of money. One of the main achievements of Minister Bellot during this legislature is the introduction of guaranteed rail services. There were many doom scenarios about that, but we can call that a success in the end. If there was a strike, the traveller knew the day before whether and how he would get to his destination and also how he would get home in the evening. It seems clear to me, therefore, that anyone who has a further destination and drives to the airport can have the same security. My question is therefore very simple: will Minister Bellot, in the last few months of his presidency, be able to get this dossier around and bring it to a successful conclusion? Whatever can be done by the railways should be possible at skeyes. Will he still want to achieve the guaranteed service at skeyes, which was promised in the coalition agreement?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u65	Mrs de Crom, I would like to read you Mr Bellot's answer. With regard to this week's work on skeyes, I first regret the unexpected nature of this strike movement and consequently the hostagetaking of citizens and the organisational problems faced by users and operators at airports. Skeyes is a public body in which social dialogue takes a leading place. There are talks between trade unions and management at the moment. Minister Bellot says he always prefers the path of dialogue. In the context of this dialogue, a meeting should also be held shortly between the management of skeyes and the trade unions to discuss, in particular, the additional direct recruitments for air services, the management of air traffic controllers' schedules and the introduction of a guaranteed service. It goes without saying that Minister Bellot will follow this dossier with due attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u66	Madam Minister, I regret that four and a half years after the coalition agreement and one and a half years after the introduction of guaranteed rail services, there is still no evolution in this dossier. I will therefore take the initiative myself to lay down a legal framework for this, because the guarantee of rail services has clearly shown that with a little good will it is possible to do a great deal, both with respect for the right to strike and with respect for the commitment of the workers and with respect for the traveller, who is always the victim in the end. I repeat: if the guarantee of rail services is possible, this must also be possible at airports.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u67	Madam Minister, the city administration in Leuven demands that public companies such as SNCB collect their fines in a much more humane way, after it has been found that a man with mental problems has to pay EUR 30 000 a fine to SNCB for being caught a few times in the black. That fine is therefore higher than the price for buying two small cars. Who understands that? The priceless train tickets are not in a thousand years in proportion to the fine of EUR 30 000, which the man has to pay. Don't get me wrong, Madam Secretary, debts have to be paid, but how inhuman can it be? I've mentioned here a few times that a new industry has emerged. We think industry is very good, but not the debt industry. One should not be proud to be a part of this. However, SNCB, a public undertaking, is now also participating in it. The problem is not the fault, but all the costs at the top of the debt. Madam Minister, I am not alone in asking for a more humane approach to debt collection. The Network against Poverty also stresses that the federal government had promised to work towards a more humane collection of fines. The VVSG also requires a more flexible and realistic policy of companies such as SNCB. The sp.a put forward ten proposals to stop the debt industry a while ago. One of these proposals concerned maximum amounts of interest and compensation. Madam Minister, is it not the first task of the public authorities, and therefore of the public enterprises, to set an example? Can you call on SNCB to answer for that very inhumane behaviour?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u68	Mrs Lambrecht, I read Minister Bellot's answer. The transport conditions of SNCB include a set of rules which passengers must comply with when travelling with SNCB. If they do not respect them, they are subject to a fine. These conditions apply to all travellers and form an integral part of SNCB's commercial policy. They aim to be fair to all persons travelling by train on Belgian territory. Where there appears to be an important problem in relation to an offender, SNCB shall advise the person concerned to contact its customer service in order to examine the possibility of finding an arrangement applicable to both parties. Minister Bellot encourages SNCB to adopt this approach in exceptional situations. However, he would also like to stress that travellers and their environment must be aware of the fact that there are rules and that they are being applied systematically.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u69	Madam Minister, thank you for reading out Minister Bellot's reply. State-owned companies have an exemplary role to play, and that also applies to SNCB. As a result of a distressing situation of people with mental problems who find themselves in a spiral of debt, I find it incredible that the rules are the rules. How much money can one make from people's misery? How much can a public company cash on people's misery? The debt industry is affecting a lot of people and we must help to curb them. Debts have to be repaid, but inhuman fines as a public body cannot be imposed. I am counting on Minister Bellot to impose rules on SNCB. They impose rules; well, he can also impose rules. He must impose rules on SNCB in order to stop this terrible and poignant way of debt collection.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u70	End of oral questions. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of the agreement reached at the beginning of the present meeting that the Committee on Business would now meet.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u71	By letter dated 1 March 2019, Mr Veli Yüksel announced that he would sit as an independent member. By letter dated 1 March 2019, Mr.Veli Yüksel announced that he would sit as an independent Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u72	The CD&V Group has given me the candidacy of Mr Roel Deseyn to replace Mr Veli Yüksel as an effective member of the Parliamentary Delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. The CD&V Group sent me Mr Roel Deseyn's candidacy to replace Mr Veli Yüksel as an effective member of the House's delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. Since there are no other candidates, it should not be voted on (Rule 157, No. 6 of the Rules of Procedure) and I declare Mr Roel Deseyn elected as an effective member of the Parliamentary Delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. Since there are no other candidates, there is no vote (Rule 157(6) of the Rules of Procedure), and I declare Mr Roel Deseyn elected as an effective member of the House's delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u73	I have received an order motion from Mr Raoul Hedebouw and Mr Marco Van Hees, which has meanwhile been sent around electronically. Article 54 of the Rules of Procedure shall apply. The order motion shall be considered admissible and shall read as follows: "- Considering the communication of the then majority parties during the summer holidays 2017 that the PVDA receives "equal' in the party financing file; - having regard to the systematic postponement of the decision in the Audit Board concerning the electoral expenditure and accounting of the political parties on the amount of the PVDA; - having regard to the consideration of the draft law of Mrs Inez De Coninck and Mr Peter De Roover amending the law of 4 July 1989 on the limitation and control of electoral expenditure for the elections of the Chamber of Representatives, the financing and the open accounting of political parties, No. 3628/1; the authors of this motion ask the Chamber to finally give an effective opinion on the amount of the PVDA." "- In view of the communication made during the summer holidays of 2017 by the parties of the majority of the time, according to which the PTB would get "gainful" in the party financing file; - having regard to the systematic postponement of the decision on the allocation of the PTB to the Commission for the Control of Election Expenses and the Accounting of Political Parties; - having regard to the draft law of Mrs Inez de Coninck and Mr Peter De Roover amending the Act of 4 July 1989 on the limitation and control of election expenses incurred for the election of the House of Representatives, as well as the financing and open accounting of political parties No 3628/1; the proposers of this motion ask the House to finally make a clear decision on the staffing of the PTB." If the Rules of Procedure are applied, I shall deal with this motion as the last item on the agenda, just before the votes. You will have the opportunity to speak at that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u74	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 277: Vanessa Matz, Christian Brotcorne - 825: Carina Van Cauter, Sabien Lahaye-Battheu, Vincent Van Quickenborne - 1871: Sophie De Wit, Conseil Degroote, Sarah Smeyers, Goedele Uyttersprot, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u75	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, whom I assume she refers to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u76	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Belgium must gradually be the only country except Albania, without minimum or guaranteed service in prisons. At strikes, and there have been quite a few in recent years, the whole prison life has been ruined. Belgium was therefore repeatedly condemned by the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Unhuman or humiliating Treatment or Punishment for the poor living conditions of the detainees during such a strike. Belgium was also ordered to pay compensation. Besides, when such a strike breaks out, the police take over in prison. The police are not as familiar with the state of affairs as the penitentiary officials, and also have other and more important tasks to carry out. The police must be on the streets, not in the prisons. And if the police gave it up, we've even experienced military deployment in the prisons. I believe that this is an unsustainable situation. Minister, you know that our group has been raising this issue for a long time. I have looked into it and noticed that I have asked questions about it to former Minister of Justice De Clerck. So it's been a while. During the previous legislature, we tabled a proposal on this subject. Fortunately, at the beginning of this legislature, we were entered in the coalition agreement. Then it has taken a long time, Minister. You recently tweeted about slow progress. This has taken a while, but I know that you have been working on a negotiated solution. And that's good and important. After all, we know that it is not just a ceasefire. Questions have been raised, comments have been made, and the working conditions in prisons are not ideal either. So it's okay that negotiations have been held, but it's been a long time. Today is finally the day, Minister. We are about to vote on minimum or guaranteed services. From now on, therefore, there will be a minimum service at a strike. Whew. Hopefully Belgium will no longer be ordered to pay compensation. Whew, 'cause we can use those pennies differently and better. The police and the military will no longer have to be called in. Whew, because they have other tasks to perform. And the living and working conditions during a strike will hopefully be better and better. And all in a way that doesn't affect the right to strike. The Council of State has made this very explicit, and that is an important aspect. Of course, this does not solve all the problems within the prison system. I'm just thinking about the overpopulation and the old infrastructure. We are not yet here, but we are taking a step forward. It is a step that our group has been calling for for years. We shall therefore vote in favour of it with great will, Minister. There's one thing I need to get off my chest. Contrary to what you tweeted to my regret last week, I believe that this dossier, as in many others, shows that the strength of change is working. Our group accepts its responsibility for this. She will do this in this dossier today.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u77	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the right to strike is a fundamental right just as the right to live in dignity is. Between these two rights, we have always opted for balance. Protocol 351, under permanent negotiation, kept that balance that you are breaking today, minister. If everyone closes his eyes to the conditions of life in prison (simpleness, lack of privacy, the rare showers in very poor condition, endemic prison overcrowding in Belgium, 23 hours a day imprisonment, infrequent activities, etc.) Today, Minister, they are put forward to oppose prisoners and prison officers. If the detainees are badly affected, prison officers are also affected. Working conditions in our prisons are extremely difficult. The officers are on the front line facing human beings, cursed prisoners, housed in ruined buildings in which security is no longer assured and who do not provide prisoners with a dignified life. These working conditions and conditions create tensions between officers and detainees, adding a dose of physical violence to the violence in the situation. Working conditions are extremely difficult for officers because they are far too few. They cannot even take their statutory days off. Minister, your bill provides for the training of prison officers, but they are so few that they cannot even go to the trainings that are currently being organized. On the ground, what is the situation? These prisons are new and no new staff are hired. There are currently more than 400 prison officers missing, Minister. As some have pointed out, the measures you are proposing today are aimed at combating a symptom rather than tackling the deep problems and their well-known causes. Strikes are mostly linked to living conditions in this unfriendly or even hostile environment. They are never related to wage claims. The International Prison Observatory reports that strikes have their origin in prison overcrowding, lack of staff and adequate infrastructure. Strikes are the only way for prison staff to be heard, to express the ras-le-bol of the profession in the face of the lack of resources, attacks, the lack of security of the premises and the daily ill-treatment of prisoners deprived of their basic rights. I have had the opportunity to tell you on several occasions, Minister: you are boasting of introducing a minimum service in prisons for the benefit of prisoners, whereas you are doing so solely for organisational and security reasons. That is what I regret. One can wonder about the risk of a stick return that would trigger this measure. Given that the demands of staff are often consistent with those of inmates, is this not likely to further degrade their situation? Requisitions are the antithesis of the right to collective bargaining. I can't solve it. The solution you put on the table is not one. The imposition of a minimum service will not improve the concrete situation of prisoners or only on a very ad hoc basis. It is the improvement of living conditions and prison infrastructure that will help to reduce strikes and avoid the fundamental trampling of the right to strike. Minister, if some are interested in the fate of the prisoners, it is first and foremost the prison officers. It is they who are confronted with it on a daily basis and they are the only ones trying to improve their concrete situation, with the exception, of course, of the associations active in prison. Today, my group and I reject this false good idea, which detracts from a fundamental right without ensuring the improvement of the living conditions of prisoners and the working conditions of prison officers. We will therefore vote against this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u78	Mr President, Minister, the draft law before us aims to reform the status of penitentiary staff, but it is above all the introduction of minimum services, which is very specific. When reading the public statement of the European Committee on the Prevention of Torture, I note in particular that for decades, like other European and Belgian authorities, the committee has been suing the laziness of our prison facilities, constantly violating the basic rights of the detainees and ensuring that prison staff operate in undersized and often distressing working conditions. It is now added that when collective action is taken, these situations become more dramatic and a country of the Council of Europe is unworthy. In fact, we're the last of the European class. The Committee on Torture has been engaged in a dialogue with our country on this situation for 15 years and had to establish in 2016 that the situation in our prisons has still not improved. Minister, the prison staff have been conducting this dialogue for at least as long, if not longer, with the government. Every time, they are promised all kinds of things that are almost never fulfilled. Then there is one way to expose these poignant circumstances, and that is collective action, their last resort. They have never stopped for a higher wage, but always for better working conditions in our prisons. You're now going to restrict that last leverage. In fact, you are saying that in order to limit the cause, especially the terrible conditions in our prisons, we are now restricting collective action. Minister, before you say that I am making a caricature of this fact, I would like to refer to a passage from Mrs Beyens' hearing, not the first, professor at the VUB and a great supporter of minimum service. Mrs Beyens says: "I also see the difficult material, psychological and emotional conditions in which penitentiary staff have to work today. This must not be forgotten, and this must certainly be done and is the most appropriate means of preventing strikes. The introduction of minimum services is only a symptom of a much deeper problem, namely the laziness of our Belgian prisons." Mr Minister, let me be clear, it is for that reason, and for that reason alone, that my group is opposed to the introduction of minimum services in our prisons. For other things, such as the basic and vocational training of staff, generalities are mainly put forward, but few concrete things are set out. Our question is already certain how all this will be financed. How much additional resources will you make available or will everything have to come from the staff envelope? If the personnel are in training, it is logical that they are not at work. There's already a shortage of staff. How are you gonna catch that? How many additional staff will you provide and how will you ensure that this is done effectively? You may say later that there are many vacancies open to that additional staff, but those vacancies are not filled because the working conditions are so bad. Minister, there is only one conclusion here. We will not support your bill. We do not support it for fear that the many provisions on the change of statute will remain dead letter and that what is now before us is merely an alibi for achieving this minimum service.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u79	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have a very difficult dossier before us. From a legal and policy point of view, however, it is a very interesting dossier. I am very pleased with the discussion that we have had in committee, which was very rich and very thorough. The hearings were also very interesting because we heard people there who, from the different positions they occupy, have shed light on the situation and on the text before us. In fact, we are faced with a very difficult issue. We need to reconcile a number of things. On the one hand, there is the right to strike, which is a very fundamental right. On the other hand, however, there is also the right to humanitarian living conditions, including for prisoners, including those who have been deprived of their freedom. A hearing even said at one point that it is not about seeking a balance between one and the other, because these fundamental rights are just as fundamental as not seeking a balance and that we must always be able to guarantee these fundamental rights in all circumstances. The problem in Belgium is big. Other speakers have already referred to this in detail. Belgium has already been convicted on several occasions for living conditions in prisons. Then it is not just about situations in the event of a strike, but actually about day-to-day living conditions in prisons. Besides, not only has the Anti-Folter Committee commented on this, but also in the annual reports of the federal ombudsmen can occasionally find chapters that illustrate the situation in which prisoners sometimes find themselves in the event of a strike. Many organisations, many experts and prison directors are in favour of minimum services. The trade unions are against, they are not satisfied with this text. We also understand their arguments very well. They have also explained to us why they are against. If there is a halt, it is the rights of the staff. There is a halt because of the difficult working conditions, because of the overpopulation, because they are often unable to take leave. This is not, or is not, a question of wage demands. It is therefore about the shortage of staff. They also say that even today, in a normal regime, if it is not stopped, they cannot guarantee humane living conditions. And they also have a point. They're right, too. There's constant pressure. Today, even in normal circumstances, we cannot always guarantee these fundamental rights. There is therefore a great deal of understanding of the difficult situation of the staff. Experts have also said that this law actually deals with symptom control for a deeper problem. This also means that, even if the minimum service is provided, work will have to be done on these deeper problems. This is a very important task for Parliament and the government in the coming years. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall nevertheless support this draft, as in committee, for the reasons I have also mentioned. To deprive prisoners of basic rights in the event of a strike, is really not possible. Then it is not just about food, about movement or about being able to shower, but also about being able to take medicines and many other fundamental things. It is also high time to introduce this, because in fact prisoners are in a situation where, by depriving them of their freedom, they are fully dependent on the staff and on the presence of sufficient staff. The situation is actually comparable to a hospital where there will always have to be a minimum service, even at weekends, even at night, but also in the week when there is a strike or social action. Then we find it normal that there is a minimal presence of staff for people who cannot take care of themselves. It is sometimes said that anyone who is in favour of this law or approves this law would be against the right to strike. To be honest, I find that rather short-sighted and intellectually unfair. I could also say that anyone who votes against this law is against fundamental human rights, if I were a bad person. But I have no bad character and will never use that argument.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u80	Mr President, we are all aware of the very difficult and even catastrophic conditions of detention in some prisons in the country. The settlements are overcrowded and outdated. We are fully aware of the difficulties in these establishments and it must be noted that the situation worsens during a strike. Visits and transfers are abolished, detainees remain in cells, without showers, without food distribution, with little supervision, all in violation of the minimum security rules. In the event of a strike, it is often police officers who have to take over and they themselves ask us to be discharged from this mission, which is not part of their basic missions and for which they are not trained. In the recent past, it has been noted that slippage occurs when the police have to replace prison officers. Today, Belgium and Albania are the two Council of Europe countries that do not have a guaranteed service during a strike in prisons. The European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman or Degrading Treatment and Punishment of the Council of Europe (CPT) has on several occasions since 2015 urged Belgium to set up a guaranteed prison service. In 2017, Belgium was the subject of a public declaration that "in the course of its numerous visits to prisons in 47 Council of Europe member states over the past 27 years, the Committee has never observed any similar phenomenon both in terms of the scope of the phenomenon and the risks involved". In my group's view, the right to strike is undoubtedly a fundamental right recognized by international texts and there is absolutely no question of calling it into question. However, there are limitations to this right that can be organized when they are expressly provided for by law and above all necessary to ensure respect for the rights and freedoms of others, respect for public order, national security, public health or morals. With regard to prisons, the right to strike must benefit workers and be balanced with the fact that, in the event of a discontinuity of service, there is talk of the vital needs of the prison population which would be undermined and therefore unacceptable violations of the fundamental rights of these detainees. For these reasons, we will support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u81	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let us not go back to the deplorable state of our prisons, to the European and international convictions, to the recent Belgian courts which condemn the state to periodic penalty payments if the occupancy rates are exceeded in some of our prisons (Lantin, Saint-Gilles, Forest). It is clear that the conditions of detention in our country are unworthy of a rule of law that must continue to be as such. This text, which is proposed to us - I say quite "tentatively" - attempts to bring about solutions. I say "solutions" because to hear the speakers who preceded me, there is a feeling that this text is only about the organisation of a minimum service in prisons. Of course, it is an important part of this text, but that is not all. This text is more general and seeks to find structural solutions. It is therefore not reduced to the minimum service. It refers to the creation of a special status of prison staff, separate from that of conventional State officials, thus derogating from the rest of the civil service, because it is considered that this derogation is indispensable for the proper functioning of the prison service. The inspection, the prison council and the training of officers are also interesting draft solutions. The training of officers is one of the urgent and necessary responses to ensure that a real and qualitative supervision of detainees is organised, even though this guidance may still be insufficient and the training alone may not be satisfactory in order to solve all the problems we face. As for minimum service, it is a necessary evil. I think we can qualify him as such. No one here is happy about it. In any case, I have not heard anyone in the gallery rejoice at the need to establish a minimum service because things are not happening properly or in accordance with what is right to expect: a minimum of dignity within prisons when collective strike movements are triggered. It is true that, apart from these collective strike movements, there are situations that are and remain unworthy of our rule of law, but we are trying to find solutions. It is known that for years negotiations have taken place to evaluate the protocol that dealt with the issue between the state and trade union organizations. At some point, it must be noted that it is not possible to find solutions within the framework of this Memorandum of Understanding. So we have to move on. I quote the CPT, which has been recalling for ten years and more "its serious concerns about the serious consequences of the collective actions of prison officers in Belgium. These consequences directly affect, for prolonged periods, the conditions of detention, the health and safety of persons under the responsibility of these agents." Of course, what is proposed is not the panacea. We all know that we must not hide reality. The lack of staff in prisons, the overcrowding of prisons, the disrepair of our prison buildings, the lack of resources available to the prison system, the lack of attention paid to conditions of detention with a view to preventing recidivism, and hence, from all this, the working conditions of the officers, are the real problems that cause social movements. It must not be forgotten, and it must be recalled in this rostrum. It is therefore necessary to find lasting solutions to these enormous problems, which make the conditions of detention intolerable. The latter are considered inhuman and degrading treatment. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the minimum service will not remove the causes of ill-being in prison. The causes of prison overcrowding are the lengthening of sentences, the difficulty of access to parole and preventive detention: three situations that this majority and this government have worsened. You mustn't be afraid to say it. Today, we sometimes feel that the minimum service we are talking about, which we want to organize, is not even organized or provided on a daily basis in our prisons. That is not to say that we must continue to accept that these conditions persist and that we must not attempt to resolve the issue. It is the CPT that requires, Mr.Minister, a guaranteed minimum service, which the project is trying to put in place. He does not invite us there, he demands it! I would add that my group has never been insensitive to this question, since my colleague Vanessa Matz and I had already tabled a text that was trying to address these difficulties. However, Mr Van Hees, are those who are about to vote for the minimum service the fosseurs of the right to strike? I do not accept such a statement being made! We have a right that we recognize as legitimate and fundamental in our democracy and in this rule of law that we want to preserve, bearing in mind human dignity in our prisons. These two rights are equally important: the dignity of detained persons and the quality of the work of prison officers. Both are entitled to our consideration. If it is impossible to do otherwise, it is our responsibility and that of the law to supervise the strike movement. We do not prevent it: it is not forbidden; it is framed. As in other sectors of social life, we consider that strikes are possible, but that services must continue to be provided, under the penalty of insurmountable difficulties. What is the objective of the minimum service? We hope that during these framed strike movements, the basic needs will be met. I believe that they should be reminded of all the members present in the Chamber. This is primarily about the security of detained persons, including those who are the subject of an internment measure. So far, people have been interned in a prison. Their medical treatment must then be provided with respect and humanity. Then, there is the continuity of care provided to interned persons awaiting appropriate institutionalization, as well as to any other person suffering from psychiatric disorders in detention. I am also thinking of unrestricted access to general and specialized medical care, including in hospitals where necessary. It is not because a strike takes place that these services should not be guaranteed. Similarly, the preparation and distribution of fixed-hour meals should be ensured on a daily basis. Access to at least one hour of daily walking is also essential. In addition, detainees must be able to maintain good personal hygiene, including access to showers at least twice a week, and keep their cells clean. They must also be able to maintain contact with outsiders, by telephone or mail, and receive weekly visits, particularly from lawyers. Mr Minister, you have agreed, in the course of the discussions, that I can introduce amendments that have extended these basic needs to ensure the transport of detainees for urgent medical consultations, access to prison by judicial decisions, access to prison by internationally recognized organisations and the possibility - because it is also a reality of the strike - for a detainee who is freed from prison despite this situation of strike. On the other hand, some have referred to it and I have had the opportunity to experience this experience as the mayor of a commune with a prison in its territory, it is not normal that when strike movements are so planned in a prison, the only answer is to send our police officers there who are thus excluded from their traditional and ordinary tasks in order to carry out tasks for which they are absolutely not trained. The few mayors who are still sitting in this House must, in my view, be sensitive to this development. So these are all the reasons why, Mr Minister, my group, the CDH, will vote for this text. But I have told you in committee and I will tell you again this afternoon in this rostrum: we must not believe that with this we have solved the problems and the issues. Finally, I would like to repeat and endorse the conclusion of the Directorate-General for Human Rights and the Rule of Law of the Council of Europe, which you have consulted in the context of your preliminary draft: "The preliminary draft has the merit of trying social dialogue. Beyond this analysis, it must be noted that all the measures provided for (custodial advice, inspection, staff training, guaranteed minimum service), in addition to all the statutory provisions, constitute circumstantial remedies aimed at combating the symptoms of structural malaise. If these systematic failures are not rectified, there is room for doubt as to the effectiveness in practice of the minimum service which is likely to be bypassed." There is a construction site that is still open for the next legislature, no doubt, but which is a construction site that is very important if we are to give this text, which regulates the right to strike by organising the minimum service, the chances of actually meeting its objectives.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u82	Mr President, Minister of Justice, you are attacking the right to strike on the pretext of improving the fate of the detainees. Minister, admit it, inmates, you have nothing to do with it! If the detainees were concerned, you would have attacked the catastrophic state of the prisons. You would have taken real steps. You'd have hired enough agents. You would have renovated the prisons, the buildings. You would have taken all these steps to improve the fate of the detainees. Minister, you use detainees as a pretext to attack the right to strike. You have nothing less to do with prisoners than your friends, the rich, have very little risk of going to prison, since you have taken a law to save the extended criminal transaction that allows the most affluent criminals to escape from prison. I would like to develop four strands. First of all, I would like to point out that strikes do not deteriorate the situation of detainees. Strikes, on the contrary, improve their situation throughout the year. As the unions indicated during the hearings, the fundamental problem is not the prison strike. These strikes are a signal. It is the reasons why they strike that must find solutions. Public and political authorities have an overwhelming responsibility and an obligation to respect the rights of detainees. That is why Belgium was reprimanded by the Committee for the Prevention of Torture. The government is completely relieved of its responsibility by failing to ensure decent prisons. We have heard the union representatives who have denounced these problems. Prison officers have gone on a number of strikes. It was not a question of small personal claims, but rather of solving the serious problems that arise for them as well as for the inmates. Minister, you have signed two protocols that you have not complied with. You have not even kept your promises, which were already quite weak in relation to the stakes. The problems in prisons are known. Prisons are overcrowded. Very little has been done to address the unacceptable living conditions of prisoners in overcrowded prisons. Since the hearings, the government has been condemned again, on January 9, 2019, as a result of this overcrowding. You haven't answered the problem of lack of staff. The security situation is terrible because of the structural overpopulation, the deplorable condition of the buildings... the list is endless. It is already difficult for prison staff today to obtain better working conditions with, within reach, a requisition from the governor. The minister, the government, you and your predecessors, you will no longer feel any need to listen to prison problems. A second point I wanted to address is the existence of solutions for inmates during strikes, contrary to what I have heard here. So far, during the strikes, solutions were found: the police, the Red Cross and civil protection were responsible for the tasks of the prison officers. As evidence, the prisoned police areas received additional staff because of their existence, demonstrating the link and role of the police in these circumstances. Of course, neither the authorities, nor the government, nor the police, will make it easier for them to take part in prisons! I'm well aware of that. During the hearings, the police officers told us that they were resenting this work. I understand them all the more because the budget cuts made by this government were also made for police personnel. However, this is not enough reason to violate the right to strike. The aim of a strike is not to avoid any inconvenience! It's even the other way around. There are solutions. It is not civil protection reform that will help, since it is also part of the alternative during prison strikes. I heard the police weren't trained for prisons. How does it manage people in administrative detention in police stations? I heard that there had been mistreatment by the police during his prison guards. If so, there must be a problem in the head of some members of the police. This would deserve an investigation, but it is certainly not a justification for attacking the right to strike. It is said that the police are limited to the strict minimum in the event of a strike in prisons! It's not because she can't do more, it's because she doesn't want to do more! If she doesn't want to do more, it's because she's understaffed. So we are going back to your austerity policy, but certainly not to the guarantee of a fundamental right. I conclude that solutions are possible for inmates in the event of a strike. The government uses the rights of detainees to attack the right to strike. It's crazy: the government uses its own shortcomings to attack those who fight them. Breaking the right to strike will further deteriorate the situation of prisoners in prisons. I am quite shocked to hear the position of Ecolo-Groen who supports this attack on the right to strike. I thought it was just the right.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u83	Mr. Van Hees, have you ever had a chance to go to a prison?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u84	Excuse me, I can't hear you!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u85	Have you ever had the opportunity to go to the prisons - not the most modern - to check on the spot what is actually happening there, especially during a strike? Are you aware of that?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u86	I have many exchanges with people who work there.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u87	Yes, but have you ever had the opportunity to go to a prison on these occasions?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u88	I have contacts with prison officers. I think they know the situation better than you do.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u89	It only involves you, but I can tell you that I know the daily life of prisons because I sometimes set foot in them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u90	I know there's a prison in your commune, but it doesn't give you infuse science. The third point I want to address: a serious step is taken against the right to strike; it concerns the requisition. This government had already attacked the right to strike by imposing the minimum service on SNCB, while there were no detainees on the trains. This shows that the pretext of the moment is used every time. At SNCB, it's because people are being taken hostage. In prisons, the problem of prisoners is invoked. Which shows how much it's an excuse. So here, we take another step in relation to the attack on the right to strike in the case of SNCB by introducing the requisition. If the term is not used in the law, it is included in the explanatory memorandum. The legal system is clear: the governor can requisition prison officers from 48 hours of strike. The right to strike will therefore not be guaranteed. The right to strike is based on International Labour Organization Convention No. 87 and the European Social Charter, two texts signed by Belgium. The right to strike is a fundamental and individual right, which can only be limited to very few exceptions. For example, possible exceptions are the army and the police. But these limitations are clearly defined. I hear Mr Vanden Burre say that there are limitations to the right to strike. Yes, but international texts provide that these limitations are defined. For example, it must be proven that it is impossible for other people to provide these services. However, I have shown that this replacement is possible. If a system of replacement with others is possible in essential services, it must be put in place so that the right to strike can be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u91	Mr. Van Hees, I'm listening. But when we mention international references, and in this case the International Labour Organization, of which, as you know, trade unions are part, I like to mention everything. The ILO is very clear on the possibility of setting up a minimum service, provided that it is in essential services, which are also listed. I'll give you a quick quote. First of all, there is the hospital sector, which I know very well. I can tell you that in the event of a strike, all the trade union organisations and all the staff have always paid particular attention to patients and the maintenance of care. The hospital sector is an area where there is a Sunday service, which is a minimum service, and which is recognised as indispensable by the ILO. The other sectors are: energy supply, water supply, telephone services, the police and the armed forces – you just mentioned them, but you forget all the others – fire fighting services, public or private prison services, the provision of food for school-age students and the cleaning of schools, and air traffic control. This shows you black on white, because when you mention everything you have to mention, we can clearly mark a minimum service. This is recognised by the ILO and the trade union representatives. Thank you for not truncating the truth.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u92	I don't truncate the truth!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u93	I want to re-state some of the comments you made when you asked me. I will repeat my remarks and those of my colleague Stefaan Van Hecke. First of all, in our view, the right to strike is a fundamental right. There is absolutely no question of calling him into question. I hope you have been able to follow my introduction and contextualization: these are the most fundamental human rights. That is why I have referred to the convictions against Belgium and to the fact that in Europe Belgium is the only country, together with Albania, that has not put in place a system of guaranteed service in prisons. I do not suspect that you do not know the state of the prisons in Belgium. I think you're aware of their situation. The same goes for me. The situation is one of non-respect for fundamental rights. It is only for this reason that we recognize that this is a measure which, only in this context, can respond to the serious difficulties encountered on the ground. On the other hand, it is not a solution to other problems that we denounce, such as prison overcrowding, the prison and prison visions of this government, which we denounce on an extremely regular and frontal basis. We are in favour of other alternatives: in terms of prison vision, for example, smaller, more humane spaces in which it is possible to accompany prisoners more, etc. I refer you to everything that we have defended in the Committee on Justice and Justice and that we defend very regularly. But in this case, these are precisely the most fundamental human rights. Indeed, at this stage we recognize that we must move forward and no longer allow the current situation. There is a whole series of things to do for us to follow another prison policy in this country. I refer you to all the debates we have held in the Committee on Justice. Ecolo-Groen pleads for another prison system.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u94	Mr Vanden Burre, you say that you are not questioning the right to strike. But all the parties on the right, up to the N-VA, say so too. However, in practice, they apply or pass laws that challenge the right to strike. That's the problem. Indeed, as Ms. Fonck said, there are areas where people cannot be replaced. It's obvious for a hospital. It is difficult to send the police to a hospital to replace nurses or doctors. The police themselves are difficult to replace. It's hard to send nurses to replace the police. But in prisons, it's possible, and I've shown it. And it is precisely because it is possible that the right to strike should not be called into question. There is no reason, no motivation to do so. That is exactly what the ILO says. The ILO says that if a system of replacement by other persons is possible, then it must be put in place, so that the right to strike can be guaranteed. I've shown that it's possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u95	Mr President, as long as we need to reassure Mr. Van Hees, and as far as I can, serious debates have taken place in committee. Mr. Van Hecke pointed it out. You've seen some of them. Hearings were held and opinions were delivered. One of these opinions was even to be consulted personally at the service, because it was not likely to be disclosed, i.e. the opinion of the Directorate-General for Human Rights and the Rule of Law, whose headquarters are in Strasbourg. To supplement the information Mrs Fonck has just given in relation to the ILO, the first point of this DG opinion indicates that the draft is in conformity with Article 6(4) of the European Social Charter. This additional element may indicate to you that the right to strike is not at issue here, but rather that it is the organization of a service which guarantees to those who are detained the power, in the course of strike movements, to live with a minimum of dignity. I acknowledged earlier that this was not always insured in ordinary times. On this point, I would like to join you. We still have a lot of work to do. Moreover, this was the purpose of my conclusion by quoting the same report I have just referred to. A real project is being opened for the next legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u96	We have seen, in fine debates in committee, that opinions are divided. On the one hand, there is talk of the well-being of prison officers and their right to strike, and on the other hand, of the way in which detention is managed within prisons. What is wrong with this project is that in the end, a right to strike is prevented, which is mainly used because of the lack of staff. And finally, these strikes due to the lack of investment for prison officers are stifled with this minimum service legislation. That's not right! Yes, the situation of detainees during a strike is unbearable. In this respect, the League of Human Rights is absolutely right. But this text should have been accompanied by a programme to reinvest for the benefit of prison officers. I say, I repeat, that is why, most of the time, the agents strike. That is why we are going to vote against this text. To vote in favour of this text is to tell the prison officers that they can now say what they want, that they can scream for more staff, that is completely equal to us, we have the minimum service. I repeat again, this text is not acceptable as it stands!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u97	Mrs Onkelinx, thank you for that clarification, which is also in my speech. Mr Brotcorn, we must stop this hypocrisy. You tell us about the fate of the detainees, but what is your party's position on the minimum service in public transport? You're also defending him at SNCB and TEC? At one point, the regional government had...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u98	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u99	So you are also defending it in public transport. This clearly shows that your concern is not the fate of the detainees.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u100	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u101	I am talking about your party, whose concern is to tackle the right to strike and not to solve the problem posed by the fate of the detainees.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u102	We are concerned about their fate, as soon as possible, in committee. How many times have we not blamed the Minister for not enforcing this famous law of principle, which is called the "Dupont Law"? I am also thinking of the articles on the supervision of prisoners and their education in prison in order to avoid recidivism. Whenever we can intervene, we do so. We do this work in the Justice Committee all the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u103	Mr Brotcorne, I want to say that you are referring to the specific nature of the prison in order to pass the minimum service.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u104	No!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u105	You do so by referring to the fate of the detainees.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u106	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u107	You have done just that throughout your speech: talk about the fate of the detainees. But your party also supports minimum service in other sectors. This clearly demonstrates the existence of a logic opposed to the right to strike.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u108	Especially in hospitals.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u109	I'm talking about SNCB, TEC, etc. I'll finish it. The fourth and final aspect I intended to address concerns the relationship existing in many countries, particularly in Belgium, between anti-social attacks and anti-democratic offensives. In social history, there is often a fairly close link between anti-social attacks and anti-democratic attacks. One example is Margaret Thatcher's Great Britain, which had led a neoliberal policy seriously affecting social rights with attacks on trade unions. I will not say that the Michel government is the Thatcher government, but there is a little of that. There's a parallel between these double attacks. In conclusion, this attack on the right to strike is illegitimate and illegal under international conventions. The right to strike is a fundamental human right that cannot be violated. The requisitions are a kind of forced labour and are not worthy of the twenty-first century. In the long run, the violation of the right to strike will further deteriorate the already disastrous situation of prisons for both staff and detainees.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u110	Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of Mr Maingain, who is absent. Minister, this bill can only be seen as a necessary step in a much larger process that needs to be seen in the long term. This is a delicate subject, opposing fundamental rights. It is essential to ensure respect for the right to strike and the status of the detainee. This is a questioning that can lead to a dangerous imbalance involving our utmost caution. However, it is undeniable that the establishment of a minimum prison service is a response to the recommendations of the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman Treatment. It is high time that the Belgian authorities provided quick, concrete and effective solutions to the inhumane conditions faced by detainees, particularly during strikes. Belgium has been repeatedly condemned because of the abominable living conditions in prisons. Indeed, working conditions are deplorable. Belgium is the only country in the Union not to provide a minimum service. The current situation of both prisoners and agents is totally unworthy of our country. This situation is contrary to our international obligations, but also to our domestic legal obligations. The Law of Principles of 12 January 2005 is clear in that it specifies that the execution of the sentence or deprivation of liberty must be carried out in psychosocial, physical and material conditions that respect human dignity, preserve or enhance the detainee's respect for himself or herself and seek his or her sense of personal and social responsibility. The result of the interruption of prison services is a regime of detention that violates human dignity and constitutes inhuman and degrading treatment, not to mention the lack of respect for the confidentiality of medical interviews. It is therefore essential to establish a guaranteed service during periods of strike. However, the right of prison officers to strike may be limited only on the condition that it is reasonably justified and proportionate in relation to the violation of the fundamental rights of prisoners. It is therefore necessary to consider the means which will be used to guarantee this minimum service in accordance with the right to strike. The bill mentions the possibility of using voluntary staff. While there will be a high level of motivation, it is more than likely that staff, despite the call for voluntary staff, will not be in sufficient numbers to meet the needs of inmates. In that case, we are talking about taking the necessary action. What do they involve? The obligation of staff to appear at their place of work, inducing disregard for the right to strike? Or the police intervention? The use of its services is not a real solution, since it has no knowledge of the specific functioning of the prison environment, and the presence of police officers contributes to tensions among detainees. What about the most vulnerable persons detained or housed in prisons, i.e. internees, persons with disabilities or children? It is certain that strikes are only the tip of the iceberg, symptomatic of a deep problem that should be the subject of a much more systematic approach. I therefore call for the responsibility of all of us to ensure that, alongside this minimum service, solutions are also made upstream, in order to improve the poor working conditions of the prison officers, who are the causes of the strikes. The main risk of this bill remains the application on the ground, the situation outside strikes being so distressing that the guaranteed service would be likely to be similar to the usual service, thus having the sole consequence of preventing staff from asserting their right to strike. This right to strike disappears without any parallel benefit, creating an imbalance and in no case a solution. There is therefore a need for deep cooperation and sustained dialogue with the social partners. It goes without saying that this bill, while necessary, will remain ineffective if the real causes of discontent are not addressed. A first solution is the basic training of prison staff, e.g. the establishment of a specialized training institute. Prison officers play a central role in prison life. Both day and night, they maintain law and order, avoid riots and escapes, enforce regulations and manage inter-prisoner conflicts. They also check the correspondence and calls of detainees and thus have enormous power over the privacy and privacy of detainees. While they are the primary human contact of inmates and play a crucial role in supporting the reintegration of inmates, no higher degree is required. Only the minimum age of 20 years as well as an extract from the criminal record and Belgian nationality are requested. The only training required is 50 days, provided by three training centres, and must not be terminated by a certificate or diploma. Therefore, my group proposes that, like France and its national prison administration school, a prison training institute be set up to provide basic and in-service training for officers. It will be de facto that the training will be terminated by a certificate assessing the acquisition of the required skills and which requires a definitive commitment. Indeed, the care of incarcerated persons involves the development of appropriate behavioural skills and special educational requirements. In-depth training and follow-up are crucial in order to contribute to the creation of a liveable prison climate and in the interests of all, thus engulfing the possibility of strikes. From this observation emerges the sensitive question of financing. What will be the budgetary impact of these trainings and more generally of the bill itself? The authorities have virtually no choice. There is an urgent need to invest in prison staff as well as in a quality of life that respects the fundamental rights of prisoners. At present, we must compensate for these interferences with damages to be paid as a result of convictions in court. Not only does this in no way compensate for the moral and psychological consequences, but it unnecessarily strikes the state budget. We must now act at the root and under no circumstances dare to limit ourselves to a guaranteed minimum service. The problem also lies in overcrowding and the lack of places in Belgian prisons. There is a need for direct intervention at the level of alternative sentences, internment, but above all for a more comprehensive consideration of the use of electronic bracelets, in the context of pre-trial detention, which alone accounts for between 30 and 35 per cent of the prison population. In addition, prison sentences must be considered as the final remedy. Under no circumstances should prison be the easy solution. Mismanagement of the lives of prisoners in prison has the negative effect of promoting recidivism and crime. We must therefore mitigate, as far as possible, the negative impact of imprisonment by investing in the reintegration of prisoners and by valuing their skills so that they find a new place in society. Secondly, the shortage of staff must be addressed, which is also one of the most damaging causes and the source of strikes. Prison staff lack support and work in deplorable conditions. The lack of consideration for them implies a certain accumulation of frustrations and inexorably causes absenteeism. Absenteeism is only a reflection of the demotivation of prison officers who lack recognition of the penitence of their profession. Every day, workers are confronted, in addition to difficult working conditions, with sometimes traumatic behaviours and events. These must be placed at the heart of our concerns. Psychological support must be provided to prison officers; in order to create a proper working environment, work must be done to create a balance between the professional and private lives of officers, including a right to legal leave appropriate to their expectations. Officers quickly find themselves in a gear, unable to take their days off due to lack of sufficient staff. Agents are exhausted both physically and mentally. Workers then take unpaid leave or career breaks that contribute to the shortage of staff, as well as the absenteeism discussed above. It is therefore a vicious circle that must be overcome. Therefore, my group proposes to assess the staffing needs in prisons and to adapt the recruitment framework and campaigns accordingly, as well as to ensure regular psychological follow-up for prison officers. Finally, it is essential to take into account the views of the unions that have been heard regarding the project's lines of action. The latter appear to be generally in favour of the bill. The hearings also revealed that experts, relevant organizations and prison directors were also generally supportive of the principles of establishing a minimum service. On the basis of these elements, we conclude that care must be taken to respond to the cause of strikes and not to their consequences. This is the best way to prevent strikes. However, taking into account the urgent requirements of the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture and Inhuman Treatment, which has made recommendations since 2005, our group supports this bill in order to ensure the safety and the continued treatment of detainees with humanity and respect. We also express the hope of starting the first stage of a more substantial investment in the conditions of prison officers as well as those of prisoners in the Belgian prison environment. This minimum service implies in parallel the consecration in the Belgian law of the right to strike and its limits, which has as its current basis only the case law. It is necessary to set its limits in accordance with the provisions of the European Social Charter because, contrary to the prohibition of inhuman or degrading treatment, the right to strike is not absolute, let alone in an environment where detained persons are entirely dependent on other persons and their missions, in this case prison officers. Of course, such a measure would constitute a restriction of the right to strike, but it is fully justified and proportionate to the rights and freedoms of everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u111	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to recognise that the minimum service introduced here is similar to that of our police officers. Penitentiary agents participate in public authority in a certain way and exercise authority over persons. That is why we have registered them as officials. As far as the frameworks for our prisons are concerned, we are making a maximum effort to complete those frameworks, amounting to 6 825 units. We are currently at a staff level of 98%. Given the shortage of labour in the north of the country, this is not easy at all. This also requires a permanent consultation with Selor's services. Protocol 351 was not violated. We have done everything possible to take it back in a royal decree that will be taken in compliance with the law that would be passed today. Don't worry! As far as possible, we will always consult on potential strikes, with long deadlines for consultation and waiting, so that social peace can be maintained. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that the right to strike is an essential right at the social level, as is the rights of prisoners. We tried to reconcile the two in strike time. It's not an end, it's the end of the beginning. Indeed, I am fully aware that the living conditions in our prisons need to be improved. We have so far, as Mr Brotcorne rightly pointed out, already tried to ensure that the rights of detainees are better guaranteed, in compliance with the Dupont Act. I have committed myself, Mr. Brotcorne, to fully implement this law. We're on our way. The last royal decrees are at the Council of State for the time being in order to do what we promised the detainees. I think there's a misunderstanding about the causes of the strike. I have heard repeatedly that these causes are necessarily linked to the overcrowding of our prisons. My humble experience, during my four years in office, taught me that it is not in overcrowded prisons that the social climate is degraded. Often more problems arise in very modern prisons, where population ceilings are included in DBFM public contracts (Design, Build, Finance Maintain). I really believe that the vicious circle that is constantly emerging is not the only one responsible for strikes in our prisons. Mr President, those were the comments I accepted at the end of the debate. I would like to thank colleagues from both opposition and majority in the Committee on Justice, because they have contributed so strongly to the proposed change in our traditions, which was urgently needed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u112	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u113	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3351/8) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3351/8) The draft law has 37 articles. The bill has 37 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u114	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u115	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Raf Terwingen, Carina Van Cauter, Gautier Calomne, Kristien Van Vaerenbergh, Sonja Becq, Philippe Goffin, Egbert Lachaert, Sophie De Wit, Sarah Smeyers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u116	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mr Gautier Calomne, whom I assume he refers to the written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u117	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3523/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3523/4) The bill has 43 articles. The bill has 43 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u118	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u119	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Mr Stefaan Van Hecke, rapporteur, refers to his written report. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u120	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3412/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3412/7) The title was changed by the Committee to "draft law on judicial costs in criminal matters and equivalent costs and to insert an Article 648 in the Code of Criminal Procedure." The title has been amended by the commission in "Bill concerning criminal justice costs and related costs and inserting an article 648 in the Code of Criminal Investigation". The draft law contains 18 articles. The bill has 18 clauses. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u121	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u122	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Gautier Calomne, Philippe Goffin, Sybille de Coster-Bauchau, Raf Terwingen, Egbert Lachaert, Stefaan Van Hecke, Christian Brotcorne, Peter Vanvelthoven, Patrick Dewael, Carina Van Cauter. Without report Not related
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u123	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u124	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3564/4) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3564/4) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u125	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u126	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 1451: Rita Gantois, Johan Klaps, Werner Janssen, Bert Wollants - 2885: Fabienne Winckel, Paul-Olivier Delannois, Karine Lalieux, Jean-Marc Delizée.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u127	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteurs are Mrs Leen Dierick and Mr Benoît Friart. I assume they refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u128	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the N-VA story on the protection of traders dates back to 2014. Our first concern was actually the position of the farmer. Too often it appeared that the farmer was faced with unfair commercial practices, practices that exceeded fair competition. Through the chain talks they did what they could, but that proved not to be enough. A real public stick behind the door was needed. We found that stick behind the door in competition law. Although determined at European level, it turned out to be a gap, in the sense that abuse of an absolute dominant position could be penalised, but not abuse of a relative dominant position. European law freed the Member States to incorporate this into their legal systems. A communication from the European Commission confirmed this. That was the solution the N-VA was looking for. It offered a stick behind the door without, however, giving the necessary flexibility to our freedom of contract, which has given the region great wealth. Moreover, the scheme would apply to all economic activities and not only to activities in the agri-food chain. After all, abuses are everywhere. This law will therefore be more widely applicable. The great advantage of competition law was that not only experience could be drawn from the German example, where this scheme has been in existence for 50 years, but that the monitoring of the rules is carried out by an independent regulator, which is the Competition Authority. This would make possible politically motivated actions initiated by ministers impossible. They could damage our country's investment climate. We have worked on this in committee. Opinions were sought by the various groups on this proposal and an interesting hearing of experts was organised. They taught us that our proposal could be improved legally. That is what we were very happy to do. After all, our motto was slow to come to a good settlement, rather than quickly to a bad one, of which nobody gets better. We could only welcome the fact that the Michael I government was shortly working on a bill on B2B protection. This meant that the problem had been given a higher political priority and that a better basis for a solution would be found. Which brings us to today. The draft law is no longer able to see the light of day as a result of the fall of the government, but, as it were, it has its rebirth in the form of a major amendment. The results obtained show that the hearings were an interesting breeding ground. Not only is the abuse of economic dependence sanctioned, but it also clarifies which terms and practices in a contractual relationship really cannot be accepted and, if necessary, should be sanctioned by the public authorities. In this respect, it is not only the Competition Authority or the Economic Inspectorate that should be understood by the public authorities; it may as well be a judge. The proposed provisions are of public policy. No one can deviate from it. The judge's gonna have to call them in on his own initiative. The work of the Michael I government will also enable him to do so when the problem reaches him through a collective action. This was also made possible by the government with the N-VA. Colleagues, you may wonder if this bill is perfect. It would be naive to answer this question in the affirmative. No regulation will ever be perfect; abuses will always occur, just as rules will always be able to be updated. The matter will have to be carefully monitored. It is therefore a good thing that we have included a mandatory assessment in the law. It is also appropriate for both the Competition Authority and the FPS Economy to issue guidelines to explain to companies and legal practitioners how to use the new rules in practice. Let me give you a few concrete examples. Incoterms are rules drawn up by the United Nations that govern transport law. Hundreds of companies make daily use of it. It should therefore be clarified that the rules as a lex specialise fall outside the scope of the legislative proposal. Another example is what is meant by a reasonable period of notice. For example, we understand that it should be considered primarily in the light of the nature of the product and the circumstances, in the sense that a tied company should be given an effective opportunity to evade this agreement. Of course, justice will fill in many concepts, but at least it is intended that this law should be invoked as little as possible. Good behaviour should, of course, always be the norm in a commercial practice, which is often negotiated at the sharp edge of the cut, which in itself is not negative. The law and its public application should then be the last resort. The first step has been taken. We therefore thank all those involved for their input into this fascinating debate and for the drafting of this bill and this law.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u129	Mr President, our group was keen to put in place legislation to better protect self-employed and SMEs in the context of inter-firm relations and to combat unfair practices and abuse of economic dependence. We see in particular small producers in the agri-food sector but also other trades such as garages or self-employed in the automotive sector, which often face the compressor roller of major brands abroad. In our view, such legislation must also indirectly benefit the consumer. That is why last year we introduced a proposal for a law aimed at two objectives: firstly, allowing the Belgian Competition Authority to take action in the event of an abuse by an undertaking or group of undertakings of the state of economic dependence of a client undertaking or supplier, and secondly, allowing undertakings which are economically dependent and which are subject to restrictive practices by their trading partner to bring proceedings before the ordinary courts. Our proposal is based on what exists in France and which creates a power for the Minister of Economy to act in cessation against such unfair practices. I would point out that important work has been done in committee. We conducted hearings, we met with organizations and institutions as well as academics. Finally, the consensus text that was adopted fits perfectly with what our group called for. The text extends the powers of the Belgian Competition Authority where there is clearly an abuse on the part of an operator but that operator does not have a dominant position. The text also provides independent and small businesses with rights comparable to those of consumers to better defend themselves against unfair, aggressive or misleading practices by large companies. A small flat: the financial services of banks and insurance are excluded from the scope of the provisions on unfair terms. This is a point of attention for us. This will need to be addressed, in particular in order to better defend independent agents against insurers. In any event, we believe that these measures will bring a breath of oxygen to the self-employed and small and medium-sized enterprises which too often suffer from abuse of domination or unfair practices by their dominant trading partner. That is why our group will support this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u130	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, throughout this Parliament, the government has set itself as its main priority and ambition to improve the situation of businesses in practice. It has done so through many just, necessary and beneficial socio-economic reforms, the effects of which are bearing fruit. It is in this spirit that we are looking at this text on abuse of dominant position. The measures introduced by this text will have a positive impact on contractual relations and will achieve the following objectives: to encourage freedom to undertake, to strengthen competition law, to restore unbalanced power relations towards equal relations, to denounce the abuses of certain companies and suppliers, and to support independents and SMEs. Indeed, one of the points of attention in this text is to protect SMEs. They are often forced to accept contractual conditions because of abuse of positions by oligopolistic companies. This contractual imbalance is not without consequences for these SMEs since in the long run, and in some cases, it can lead the employer to the loss of his business. From now on, those who continue to use abusive clauses or who are guilty of abuse of economic dependence will be punished. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to point out that this legislative approach is not unique to our country. Various EU Member States, including Austria, France, Germany and Italy, have also decided to address this issue and to use new legislation to address it. For my group, improving the protection of businesses and especially SMEs is a top priority, which is why we support these measures and call on you to vote in favour of this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u131	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we support this proposal because it finally establishes a legal framework for B2B protection. We have been asking for a number of years to be able, in addition to this, to provide adequate protection for consumers to businesses, especially smaller companies when they deal with large companies. The relationship between companies is sometimes characterized by an imbalance at the disadvantage of one enterprise, often the small enterprise with much less power than the other. Sometimes it is also difficult to fight against large suppliers, who use or abuse the economic dependence of small self-employed people. Certainly then this B2B protection is an important step forward for many small self-employed workers. The proposal identifies the Belgian Competition Authority to be able to act against undertakings that abuse economic dependence on other undertakings. In addition, the proposal also tackles unbalanced contracts and aggressive and misleading market practices. The proposal and the demand for good B2B protection came from the beginning of this legislature and was also included in the policy letters of Minister Peeters. Minister Peeters has prepared and drawn up an arrangement which has been discussed in depth, both with the sector of large enterprises and with those of small enterprises. Now that we have reached the end of the legislature and are now in business, we have taken into account the work done by Minister Peeters and his cabinet in the form of amendments to the N-VA proposal. For example, we have worked together on a proposal from N-VA for a fine piece of work, and we can finally introduce that B2B protection for companies. We shall therefore give our full support to the proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u132	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u133	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1451/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (1451/6) The title was amended by the Committee in its proposal for a law amending the Economic Law Code with regard to abuses of economic dependence, unlawful terms and unfair market practices between undertakings." The title has been amended by the Commission to propose a law amending the Code of Economic Law with regard to abuse of economic dependence, unfair terms and unfair market practices between enterprises". The bill has 39 articles. The bill has 39 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u134	Art. 38 • - Rita Gantois (1451/7) ****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u135	Sustained: the amendment and Article 38.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u136	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 to 37 and 39.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u137	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the reserved amendment and on the whole will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u138	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 3098: Elio Di Rupo, Paul-Olivier Delannois, Fabienne Winckel, Jean-Marc Delizée, Frédéric Daerden, Daniel Senesael, Frank Wilrycx - 3466: Gilles Vanden Burre, Kristof Calvo, Georges Gilkinet, Evita Willaert, Marcel Cheron, Wouter De Vriendt, Véronique Waterschoot - 3516: Caroline Cassart-Mailleux.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u139	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u140	Mr President, I refer to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u141	Mr President, I thank the rapporteurs for their work. Ladies and gentlemen, a self-employed worker who falls ill must wait 14 days before he can receive a sickness benefit. If the worker is employed or an official, he shall be entitled to an allowance from the first day. This situation is unfair to the self-employed. For the PS, a worker is a worker - whether self-employed, wage-earner or civil servant. That is why my colleagues and I have tabled a bill to grant an allowance to the self-employed on the first day of illness. This proposal did not gather a majority, but after discussion and compromise, a first step can be taken this evening with a large majority and perhaps even unanimity, which I hope will. The waiting period for sick leave for the self-employed will thus be reduced from fourteen to seven days. The entire period of incapacity for work of the self-employed person will be fully compensated, provided that the illness lasts beyond the seventh day. As a result of the socialist bill, sick self-employed people will benefit from better social protection. This is a substantial step forward for the self-employed. We are taking a significant step forward in social protection for more than one million self-employed people. This is an important step forward, both in terms of public health and in terms of equality between the different categories of workers. However, we will have to go further. The PS will again table a bill, from the beginning of the next legislature, to allow the grant of the sickness benefit to the self-employed on the first day of illness. Ladies and gentlemen, the Neutral Union for Independents (NSI) has objected that eight out of ten independents continue to work when they are ill or in burn out. According to a study by UCM and UNIZO, 72% of the self-employed do not follow the advice of a doctor who prescribes a stoppage of work. In other words, the postponement of health care is a sad reality for this category of workers. The main reason is related to the weakness of their social status. The social protection of the self-employed is inadequate. This is why the PS wants to grant them an allowance from the first day of illness. Ladies and gentlemen, one in six independents lives below the poverty line. Low-income self-employed people pay a higher social contribution rate than large self-employed persons. In case of loss of income, they do not receive unemployment benefits. The amount of their legal pension, admittedly, is too low. Therefore, in addition to the measure we will adopt today, I believe that there is an urgent need to rethink and revalue the overall social status of the self-employed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u142	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of this proposal is to reduce the waiting time for the intervention of the self-employed' disability allowance. Here it is even completely eliminated, or yet for self-employed people who have been ill for more than a week. The proposal also responds to the opinions requested from self-employed organisations. Each of them had an arrangement in mind for this. In view of the rules applicable to employees and civil servants, this adjustment seems logical, fair and therefore fair. They do not have a career period, while self-employed people still have to wait 14 days for intervention. Our party, too, was and is in favour of better alignment of the existing social statutes. At the same time, it is important for us to take action within a clear financial framework. In other words, the bill is right. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make the following comments on this bill. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the work of Michael I Government. She was able to present a fine piece of work on strengthening the social status of the self-employed. This work was made possible by the tax shift of former minister Johan Van Overtveldt. For example, the career period has already been reduced by that government from thirty to fourteen days. For this operation, EUR 9.7 million was entered in the budget. The scheme set out here will further increase the account by at least EUR 11 million per year. This was calculated by the Court of Auditors, which also stated in its opinion that the budgetary impact was in fact difficult to estimate because no reference material was available. UNIZO had also calculated its proposal, which was less far-reaching than what is being discussed today. That proposal would cost EUR 20 million per year. This seems to us to be a better amount to take into account. This amount is not included in any budget. It therefore seems better to speak of a starting figure. It is not only difficult to estimate how many self-employed people will make effective use of the scheme. According to a worst case scenario, this could amount to EUR 200 million. It is also difficult to estimate the extent to which the scheme will be abused. There is such a risk. I am not thinking of the butcher around the corner, but, for example, of the bogus self-employed who are registered here, working a few days and then living a few days at the expense of the State. This will have to be monitored carefully, if not in the face of increases in his quarterly contribution to social security. Social security is now showing a positive balance, but it can turn quickly. That is why we abstained from voting in committee on two specific amendments. Finally, I would like to point out that although the measure was intended to bring the existing statutes closer together, this is not necessarily the case. I'm declaring myself. Workers who become ill are not paid by the State in the first month, but by the employer. A further socialisation of expenditure can be a justifiable choice, but the extent to which one can show solidarity is not unlimited. The ever-increasing expenditure on incapacity for work in the Staff Regulations also shows this. All this therefore does not mean that we would not support the proposal. The strengthening of the social status of self-employed workers is also included in our programme and self-employed workers deserve it. After all, they are the engine of added value creation that generates a prosperity that we can all enjoy. Moreover, the strengthening responds to a demand from self-employed organisations, our group supported an amendment at the end of 2018 calling for the abolition of the career period and currently has a surplus in the social security budget of the self-employed. For these reasons and in the light of the comments made, we will support the agreement reached.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u143	Mr President, the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, in terms of improving the social status of self-employed workers, many progress has been made in recent years. Twenty years ago, the waiting period lasted three months. It was under the impetus of Liberal ministers with independents in their responsibilities that it was reduced. No government without the Liberals took care of them. It was under the aegis of Sabine Laruelle that their status was really taken into account and changed. More recently, Minister Ducrame has halved the waiting period. Before January 1, 2018, it was still one month. It was obviously far too long. In view of the financial difficulties this can cause, some self-employed persons with incapacity for work - who must provide for themselves and their families - manage not to take sick leave, which is sometimes necessary, and continue to work to the limit of their strength. A bill has been tabled by our group to simply remove this period of failure. Whatever the form, the main thing is that the debate has been able to move forward for the benefit of the independents. Yes, we want a period of deficiency reduced to zero. That was our first wish. We are pleased that a compromise has been reached between the various political parties and among the various members of the Committee on the Economy in order to increase the waiting period to seven days. From now on, incapacity for work may give rise to compensation after seven days, on the basis of the date of the declaration of incapacity on the medical certificate, with retroactive effect from the eighth day. In other words, an independent person will receive the benefits of his or her first seven days of sick leave as soon as the next day. This is a real step forward for the status of self-employed workers, which will enter into force on 1 July this year. If we are satisfied with this, we regret, of course, that we have not been able to find a majority to agree on a pure and simple deletion. Our group - I in particular - is always very attentive to the status of the self-employed and is also concerned that their health insurance will be increased. It should be noted that some self-employed persons still give up the possibility of being recognised as sick and of receiving the benefits resulting therefrom. For all these reasons, our group will support this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal before us for a vote builds on the work that has been done step by step in recent years to strengthen the social status of the self-employed, including in terms of incapacity for work. As many colleagues have said, a great deal of room has been opened up in recent years and investments have been made to improve the situation of disabled self-employed workers. For example, a first step was taken to reduce the career period from one month to fourteen days. After the debates in committee following my resolution on improving the situation of disabled self-employed workers, some legislative proposals were finally put forward to further reduce the career period, a principle which we certainly supported. The original proposal could not please us, but thanks to some of the amendments tabled in committee, a consensus could grow and the proposal was acceptable to us. However, I repeat my appeal to the government and all the partners to include the other elements of my resolution, which was adopted unanimously here last December. The situation is particularly critical for self-employed people who are long-term disabled, who do not see any improvement, who have a low replacement income and cannot re-integrate into their own business or change their status. There is absolutely still work to be done for this group, because he too deserves our attention. Often these are poignant situations. I would also urge that the reintegration paths with guidance be rapidly completed, which give the long-term disabled a way to move on to another form of activity. I also call for the second part of the resolution to be implemented and for prevention to be carried out so that people do not become disabled. We want to continue to work on these points. Let me mention a step along the way, because important measures still need to be developed on reintegration routes for long-term disabled persons and prevention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u145	Mr President, going from 14 days to 7 days for the waiting period is indeed positive. The CDH obviously welcomes this progress, which is the result, admittedly, of teamwork and, above all, of consultations with representative organisations which I would like to thank for the passage. Belgium has a very high rate of self-employed persons: more than 1.1 million in full or in addition. In proportion to the 11,376,000 inhabitants in Belgium, this is a significant figure. Let us remember that the self-employed promote the country's economic growth! Behind the labour force and behind this economic contribution, there are obviously individuals, families, problems of precariousness and public health issues that need to be addressed and resolved politically. Today's proposal is part of it. For the CDH, self-employed persons must no longer constitute a risk group. The above-mentioned parameters must be taken into account in order to make this status attractive and accessible. In the future, we must be able to simply remove the barriers to social security coverage. You don't have to walk in numbers anymore. As part of the drafting of this proposal, we have received opinions from the various representative organisations. Beyond certain differences, we also have commonalities, namely that the self-employed contribute more than they receive in relation to the INASTI bonus and that they have priority expectations, particularly in the area of pensions. Today, going from 14 to 7 days is wise. This is a political choice that the sector is asking for. At the CDH, we believe that we must choose to legislate intelligently and logically and that we must be able to give the independent sector what they contribute proportionally. Some questions remain: what about the proportionality of incapacity for work benefits? The self-employed are in favour of more proportionate compensation for incapacity to work. Today, the allowances are lump sum, but with modulation depending on whether the self-employed is dependent on the family or whether he is alone or cohabiting. What about incapacity for part-time work? Self-employed people often do not completely interrupt their activity in the event of incapacity for work, because the impact on their business would be too heavy. It is also up to us that too many self-employed people also put their health at risk by continuing to work to the limit of their strength, because living without any financial return while continuing to have to assume a number of obligations (wages, leases, loans, etc.) is obviously insurmountable. And when they have to take a little time off for health reasons, the economic reality catches up with them and they continue to work. The question of incapacity for part-time work can therefore be raised. It'll probably be for later. Anyway, today, let's take what's here! We support this progress, which we have taken part in regarding the waiting period, while keeping in mind the need to have a comprehensive view of the social status of self-employed workers and to provide responses in line with wishes and priorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u146	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u147	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3098/7) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (3098/7) The bill has 9 articles. The bill has 9 articles. No amendments were tabled. No amendments have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u148	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u149	Proposals tabled by: Proposals submitted by: - 51: Catherine Fonck - 150: Olivier Maingain, Véronique Caprasse - 1061: Karine Lalieux, André Frédéric, Fabienne Winckel, Paul-Olivier Delannois, Jean-Marc Delizée, Philippe Blanchart - 1075: Marcel Cheron, Kristof Calvo, Jean-Marc Nollet, Stefaan Van Hecke, Gilles Vanden Burre - 1086: Patrick Dewael, David Clarinval, Patricia Ceysens, Kattrin Jadin, Frank Wilrycx, Caroline Cassart-Mailleux, Vincent Van Quickenborne, Benoît Friart - 3334: Meryame Kitir, Youro Caser, Karin Jiroflée.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u150	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open. The rapporteur is Mrs Dierick. I assume she refers to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u151	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our party and others have tabled this amendment, which aims at lowering the age of compulsory education to five years, for a number of years. Thanks to the vote that will take place earlier, it will be a reality for the school year, September 1, 2020. Of course, it was important for schools to be able to organize themselves so that everything could be carried out in optimal conditions. This is particularly important. Regular attendance at an early age is the best way to develop children's sociability, enable them to integrate school codes, and facilitate their integration. It is an essential tool for development, more specifically for children who do not speak French or Dutch at home, or who are more fragile socio-economically. In addition, studies have shown that children who do not attend kindergarten are more likely to experience a more complex educational path later. Lowering the age of compulsory education to five is a tool for the promotion and success of our children. So this is a great step forward for us. After all these years without having been able to reach Parliament, this is a sign that it is worthwhile, ladies and gentlemen, to persist and continue to mobilize. We have obtained positive opinions from the various Communities and governments, but also from the Ministers of Education. This made it possible to make this progress in committee. We end the legislature with a vote in plenary and I welcome it. Of course, we will support our text.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u152	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as Mrs Fonck has just said, the dossier is old. I found in my boxes the first bill that the PS/sp.a group had tabled. It was in February 2004. Already at the time, studies showed the importance of early and regular schooling to combat the reproduction of social inequalities and to promote the integration of the child into the group of pupils concerned. Colleagues, in the meantime, many studies have continued to draw the same conclusions. Some children, in particular those from disadvantaged backgrounds who do not have one of the two national languages, enter the school later and do not attend it on a regular basis, thus failing to acquire the codes of the school system and sufficient knowledge of the language. In 2015, we tabled an umpteenth bill to be more ambitious in the light of the findings, namely, compulsory education from the age of three. It is a resolution that our honourable senators unanimously voted on in February 2016. They indicated that it was important for compulsory education to begin at the age of three. It is also the position of the government of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation that is in favour of lowering compulsory education at the age of three. Of course, we will welcome this first step, which will apply from the start of the school year 2020-2021. What a waste of time! I regret that the Flemish Community has taken fifteen years to deliver an opinion to this Parliament on compulsory education. That's a lot, 15 years! We received it in extremis on February 12. What a waste! Waiting fifteen years to try to achieve a better integration of students but also to combat school inequality is huge! We remain in favour of compulsory education from the age of three, but we will of course support the small step forward of compulsory education from the age of five. It is therefore with enthusiasm that we will vote for this bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u153	Mr President, sometimes it takes many years to achieve a result. It took this Parliament 15 years to vote for the reduction of compulsory education from six to five years. Since 1988, education has become a competence of the Communities. However, setting the start and end of compulsory education is a federal jurisdiction. In recent years, many texts have been filed with one variant: the beginning of compulsory education is three or five years old. I remember having tabled a text on this subject with Mr Maingain many years ago. From that time on, my group had chosen the option of starting compulsory education at the age of five. Young people would be subject to the obligation for 13 years, compared to 12 at present. The Council of State considers that the imposition of five-year compulsory education does not seem to be a disproportionate measure given that the vast majority of children of this age already attend kindergarten – according to figures, it is close to 98 per cent. We have waited a long time for the opinions of the Communities. They have recently arrived and are positive, on the express condition that the law only comes into force for the school year 2020-2021. This condition was accepted in the parliamentary debate. Why should compulsory education be increased to five years? Simply because attendance at kindergarten is a success factor for primary education. An OECD study showed some correlations between the number of years spent in pre-school education and subsequent school outcomes. We are part of a scheme that ensures equal opportunities for all children. In line with this logic, it is a year earlier that teachers will be able to see which children are suffering from a delay and will be able to ensure appropriate support in order to give each child the best chance of success. For these reasons, we will vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u154	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after many years, a decision has finally been taken in the legislative proposal before us. According to the information that was delivered to me by colleagues with a lot more years on the counter in the hemisphere, this bill has been going on for almost fifteen years. With sp.a we have always followed this closely, because we cannot deny that a lot has changed and evolved over the past 15 years. The needs and concerns are no longer the same and, of course, our society has also changed. That is why we are convinced that we must dare to take a step further. The French have already realised that. Colleagues, we cannot be left behind. For this reason, we shall retable the amendment that we tabled at the committee meeting in this House. We want to go one step further with our amendment, because we propose that the compulsory education age of five years should be set at three years. We have the following reasons for doing so. Today, on average, 5% of children between three and five years old in Belgium are not enrolled in preschool education. In absolute figures, we are talking about every 15 000 children, which corresponds to the population of many municipalities in Belgium. I think I can say that this is not a low number. We also want to avoid those 15 000 children becoming language and learning retarded even before they go to the first grade. For your information, the number of young people leaving secondary education without a diploma is dramatically high. Let us not forget that today's toddlers are tomorrow's parents. Child poverty has only increased in our country in recent years. In Belgium, an average of 15% of children are currently born into poverty. For us, education plays a crucial role in the fight against child poverty. It is therefore of paramount importance that we facilitate access to education as early as possible. It is our responsibility to set an example in this respect, despite the fact that the opinions on our proposal were rather negative. Exceptional circumstances, referring to 15% child poverty, require exceptional solutions. That is what we want to achieve with our amendment: we are creating a lever in the fight against child poverty to prevent the number of children born into poverty from rising even further.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u155	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if the age of compulsory education is set at 6 years, 95 to 99% of our children are already attending maternal education at the age of 5. Positive figures when we know the positive effects of schooling of children before compulsory primary school, both at the cognitive, linguistic, social and societal levels. However, children who do not attend school before the age of 6 and those who do not attend school on a regular basis are from particularly disadvantaged social backgrounds. Instead of helping them set foot in the chain, the current system actually reinforces inequalities between them and other children. These figures must be compared with a tendency to delay the age of entry into nursery school beyond 3 years. A study on inequality of access to nursery school shows that children who would be freed from nursery school by the age of two and a half years are occupying it longer because they would rarely be allowed to enter kindergarten. Families therefore bear the cost of crèches longer while the school is free. It is for this reason that, after the 2014 legislation, my group re-tabled its bill to lower the age of compulsory education from 6 to 3 years. In particular, we follow a resolution of the Supreme Council of Health recommending that parents register their children from the age of two and a half years. We were the first party to table a text on this subject under this legislature, but also the only party to propose lowering the age of compulsory education to 3 years. It is therefore with joy that we have seen other parties table texts for the same purpose, even though I regret the lack of ambition of the texts which envisage a reduction of only five years. A gradual reduction year after year up to 3 years was quite possible. Many of us recognize the positive effects of early schooling. Early childhood is a crucial moment for the acquisition of the language and skills necessary for daily life, such as cooperation, autonomy, creativity and the resolution of difficulties. A French national survey concluded that every year spent in kindergarten reduces the likelihood of repetition of the first year of primary school, especially for children from disadvantaged backgrounds. At the earliest possible time, children can be cared for if necessary in the event of speech and speech disorders, spatio-temporal orientation and psychomotor disorders. The school plays its full role here in prevention, counselling and support to parents, while giving the child maximum opportunity to successfully enter primary school. It is clear that the earlier the capacity for attention is mobilized, the easier it is to acquire primary school students. This measure will also speed up the integration of immigrant young children, since early education enables them to master the basics, in particular the language of the education they go through, an essential step in a successful and emancipatory school and professional path. Secondly, the socialization and stimulation of children from an early age through the organization of childcare and school facilities has a positive impact. Early childhood education is a real public good and brings benefits in terms of health, cognitive, social and emotional development, which also promote relationships with others and social cohesion. Thirdly, the budgetary impact of such a measure is entirely to be relativised. As the Council of State points out, the proposed measure should not have an unreasonable impact on the Communities responsible for organising education and ensuring that it is free of charge. Indeed, a very large proportion of the children concerned, even in the age group 3 to 4, are already attending school free of charge. It is for this reason that France decided to lower the age of compulsory education from 6 to 3 years from the start of school in 2019. Finally, I would add that investments in education will always benefit society in terms of health and economics. Education is indeed the key to many societal problems. Therefore, my group will of course support the lowering of the age of compulsory education to 5 years, while regretting that a consensus could not be reached on an age that would have accentuated the positive effects of early schooling, namely 3 years. It is regrettable that the path taken by France has not been taken by Belgium. I hope that this reduction to five years is only a step in a process that aims, in the long term, to make the three years of maternal education compulsory. I also draw the Community's attention to the need to accompany this lowering of the age of compulsory education with a genuine policy of encouragement so that school attendance for the 3-4 year-olds is significantly revised upwards. This is, moreover, the subject of the motion for a resolution submitted by DéFI to the Parliament of the French Community in October 2014. In this text, we asked the Government of this entity to encourage by all means it considers necessary the regular attendance of maternal education from the age of two and a half years, but also to expressly authorize children to go back to school at any time of the year, so as to make compulsory education effective when the pupil reaches the age of three years. It is therefore important to vote in favour of this text. All levels of authority will work together on a plan to maximize school attendance for the youngest.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u156	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the legislative proposal has now been sufficiently outlined by the author. The proposal, which will enter into force from the 2020-2021 school year, strengthens the need to reduce the compulsory education from six years to five years. Even if we are in favour of the principle, we still had some concerns about the effects. Firstly, in view of the fact that Article 24 of the Constitution stipulates that in the case of compulsory education, the Flemish Government has made it clear in its opinion that the reduction in compulsory education should not have the effect of providing philosophical education in kindergarten. The entry into force, starting from 2020-2021, takes effective account of this. On the one hand, it enables the Communities to prepare themselves for entry into force and to take the necessary measures to ensure that the five-year-olds are adequately covered. On the other hand, it gives us the opportunity to adapt the Constitution in the coming years so that the opinion of the Flemish Community can be respected. If we do not do so, the Flemish Minister of Education Crevits has given a number of figures on this in Flanders, which means 20 million euros in additional costs. This figure would not be very different for the French Community, given that pre-school participation in Flanders is a little higher today than in the French Community. There is also a need to pay some attention to this. Of course there are other costs, for example for the administration. The estimates in this respect are about EUR 15 million. That must not prevent us from implementing the proposal, nor does it mean that we will oppose it. We have long been in favour of increasing early childhood participation in education. Moreover, the Flemish Government has already taken very specific measures to this end. Many steps have already been taken in this area. In Flanders, by the way, the nursery rate for five-year-olds is 99%. We must also pay attention to the fact that reducing the age of compulsory education does not automatically mean that the kindergarten concerned must also go to school. There is still a difference between compulsory education and compulsory schooling. It is therefore necessary to monitor or increase the share of home education in the coming years. The scheme meets the requirements of the Communities. I think it would be a good idea for them to decide a number of things in this area. In the end, they must organise education, as they are primarily responsible for it, while only the aspect of compulsory education is still floating here. As long as we are competent in this House, we must take responsibility for this and take decisions for the Communities. It would, of course, be much more logical if compulsory education were to end up with the Communities in the long term. That way they can organize it in the way they want. Perhaps that will lead to shorter lead times in that respect? In its opinion, the Council of State specifically pointed out that we could not take the measure in question without involving the Communities. I think that is absolutely important. Colleagues, in conclusion, we will absolutely vote in favour of the proposal, because it is and remains an opportunity to support early childhood participation in education. The knowledge of Dutch in Flanders is very important. Those who do not speak enough Dutch at home often suffer from learning disadvantage. By learning it in kindergarten, one can avoid it. We see very often that such a learning retardation takes a whole school career for a long time, and that is something we absolutely want to avoid. Our group will certainly approve the proposal, but within the framework I have outlined. We therefore expect further steps to be taken in the near future, so that the framework is right and we can avoid the cost of compulsory philosophical teaching. During the debates, I had the impression that nobody in the Chamber was waiting for that and that it was absolutely necessary to talk about kindergarten participation and much less about philosophical subjects.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u157	Ladies and gentlemen, my group will support this text with enthusiasm. My intervention will be short in the light of the years which have taken place in this work of consulting the Communities on a matter which, since 1988, has been essentially Community-based. Some would like to regionalise it, but for the moment it depends on the Communities. The Communities already had the possibility of imposing an obligation to enrol in the school. This is an obligation to attend. The figure given varied from one colleague to another, which clearly shows that statistics are not a science, as we sometimes talk about 92, 93 or 98 per cent. Is it a daily attendance? I think that's an average. I think that attendance is already exceptionally high in both Communities, which means that the 1989 funding law should not be affected at the moment. We talked about the 1988 Act. I take this opportunity to pay tribute to Philippe Moureaux because he was one of the actors of that period. This may be the way to link up in parliamentary debates. With regard to compulsory education at the age of five, I believe that the consequences are manageable for the Communities. I just listened almost religiously to Mr. Wollants. Of course, Mr. Reynders can be pope, Mr. De Wever may be god and Mr Wollants his spokesman, but the N-VA wants to regionalize teaching. On the day we debate the three-year compulsory education, which may have its relevance, we must not forget the funding law because there, the consequences for the Communities, whatever they may be and whatever they wish to do with their destiny, will be much more important in terms of operating costs. Mr Wollants quoted figures of the order of twenty million for the Flemish Community concerning the five-year obligation. He didn't give us the three-year bond figures. I'm just drawing your attention to this. If the future members of this House want to go further in the field of compulsory education, they must not forget the 1989 financing law because there, the material consequences would be very important for the Communities. I conclude on the positive side. Even if it took years, I think it is an important step for the Communities and especially for the students and for the fight against inequalities. We know that they are already formed from five years old. The more we go in the direction of integration from kindergarten for the language of learning, the better we will combat these inequalities. These are positive things that will save us in the future. School failure is very costly not only for individuals but also for the Communities.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u158	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u159	We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (51/6) We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (51/6) The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u160	****** Decision of the article-by-article discussion:
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u161	Sustained: the amendment and Article 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u162	Article adopted by article: Articles 1 and 3.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u163	****** The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the amendment that has been tabled and on the whole will take place later. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the reserved amendment and on the package will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u164	Proposal tabled by: Proposal submitted by: Olivier Maingain, Véronique Caprasse, Daniel Senesael, Alain Top, Georges Dallemagne, Jean-Jacques Flahaux, Gwenaëlle Grovonius.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u165	The text adopted by the Committee is the basis for the discussion (Rgt 85, 4) (2243/10) The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (2243/10) The meeting's open. The discussion is open. Mrs Jadin and Mr De Vriendt, rapporteurs, referred to the written report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u166	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to welcome the presence of the representative of the Memoir Group in the guest gallery. For today, if we can finally debate this resolution, the credit lies only with the representatives of this Group, who have alerted us, who have alerted parliamentarians from all parties. So it's not a party initiative. This is not the initiative of a few parties. It is above all the initiative of those who, through their courage during the Second World War, wanted to remind the younger generations – for this purpose, the Memory Group was established by eminent personalities from the resistance circles, including the Secret Army and other movements – that the testimony of the past is not the search for revenge, but the demand for a sharp look at realities that can continue to challenge us today. This sharp look, they took it because they may not have found sufficient listening to certain authorities in relation to a situation that could not be imagined in the current situation. We were all impressed that, as a result of this joint parliamentary initiative, the international press, the European press, was very interested. I would say that this is almost the greatest tribute of gratitude that we can express to the Memoir Group: it is to see that today in Europe, several voices in several parliamentary assemblies are speaking out to question each other, to question the authorities, to question the German government about what constitutes an immoral practice and, to say the least, rather ignoble. Indeed, those who have carried their arms alongside the Nazi regime by committing themselves by ideology benefit from a pension scheme that has been in existence for decades. It is not about the "despite us" but about those who, by ideology, have made the choice to engage voluntarily, sometimes within the Wehrmacht, but more often in the Waffen-SS. Few political authorities in Europe have focused their attention on this regime. It's quite incomprehensible. It is difficult to realize that it took all this time for the German authorities to be asked more clearly today, thanks to the memory work carried out by the Group of the same name. I would like to thank my colleagues who took the approach of the mission in Berlin, to which I had not been able to join. I believe that through their work, their questions and their relevant questions to a number of German authorities which they have met, they have been able to identify not only the administrative process which now allows administrative authorities and, in particular, those of the Land of North Rhine-Westphalia to assume this anachronism which means that those who have carried out arms alongside the Nazi regime benefit from a pension scheme. It should be recalled that, according to Belgian law, any Belgian who has carried weapons against Belgium will be punished by life imprisonment. It is the carrying of weapons against Belgium to carry out knowingly for the enemy combat tasks (transport, work or surveillance) which are normally the responsibility of the enemy armies or their services. That is what the Penal Code reminds us of. It is true that it took time for the German authorities to admit that they were not those who would have been victims, those who were wounded by war. It was attempted to make it appear that the German authorities were liquidating a pension scheme only to those who would have been victims and wounded by war, even though perhaps they had been in the German army and, more particularly, those who, because of the connection of Belgian territory to the Reich, had been forced to serve the German army. Historical truth has emerged through the research work of some people. I also welcome one of the authors of this work. I would like to recall once and for all in this forum that ideological commitment to the Nazi regime was not a choice of membership according to a language or culture. There were collaborators in the North, Central and South of the country during the Second World War. We must remind him with strength and clarity. But perhaps in fact, in Flanders, in some circles of extreme nationalist right, there persists a survival of what should now be a totally condemned and totally overturned behaviour. The research work carried out by some of the members of the Memoir Group has highlighted, in particular, through the documentation collected and a former monthly of extreme right-wing Berkenkruis, the fact that it was still possible in the '80s and '90s to make representations to the German authorities to benefit from this pension scheme. He even found himself a former parliamentarian who served as a social office for all former collaborators. Particularly active in these circles, Willy Kuijpers, has recognized him in the press. He said: "Add yourself to me, I will make sure that your file is completed with the German authorities." He barely hid it. This work had nothing social and it is shameful to present it in this way. Nothing can justify such an approach! Historian Frank Seberechts, in his book Drang naar het Oosten, shows, with supporting archives, that the volunteers of the Eastern Front were indeed involved in war crimes and crimes against humanity. Therefore, the German authorities' argument that they have filtered and ruled out the demands of those who would have carried the weapons by committing war crimes and crimes against humanity is not on the road. Moreover, after a public protest at European level, the German Federal Ministry of Labour and the German Ambassador to Belgium are beginning to recognize that it may not be excluded that former Belgian members of the Wehrmacht or Waffen-SS receive pensions. This is obviously no longer acceptable. This scandalous financial grant should be abrogated for the few accomplices of the collaboration who still benefit from it. Moreover, it is not subject to a Belgian tax system, although I must say that the purpose of this text is not to submit these amounts of rent, since it is especially important that they are no longer granted. It is therefore certainly necessary to obtain the repeal of this system, but first and foremost the duty of memory must be truly fulfilled and the historical truth fully restored. Similarly, it is important that, through access to the archives of the German State, one can identify those who for decades have benefited from this regime, which was established by a Hitlerian decree dating from the Second World War and which was subsequently maintained by a federal law of 1950. There are probably several hundred former collaborators who have benefited from it. Victims have the right to know who the victims were. Perhaps the Belgian Justice itself had not, after the war, identified all the ideological collaborators and those who had carried weapons alongside the Nazi regime to serve him. It may be useful for this work of memory to finally be established in all its truth and for the victims to know the name of their executioners, for that is what they were. Nothing in history can justify that the executioners are recognized by a gratuity of any kind. Yes, I would like to thank the colleagues of the majority and the opposition who have associated themselves with this process, which is finally coming to fruition today. It had been paralyzed for a time, no doubt by a devious political game, little confessed, which was simply aimed at trying to obscure or not highlight this dark page of history. I am pleased that, perhaps under special political circumstances, parliamentary work can finally honour the outcome of this long journey and finally be able to collectively commend the work of the Memoir Group, which once again preserved, through its invaluable commitment, the honour of our country, that of those who served it during the Second World War. In addition, they have served the values that must be affirmed today with even more force, for nostalgics are never far from being accomplices to those who want to revive the wrong pages of history.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u167	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is of course important to welcome the work carried out in the context of this motion for a resolution, which, as you have pointed out, is not the work of one of our political groups, but the exceptional work carried out by the Memoir-Groep Herinnering Group or the citizens' group "For Memory for the Future", collectives which bring together survivors or descendants of Nazi concentration camps, but also citizens committed to the duty of memory. They highlighted information that pension and compensation schemes would be granted to former employees of the German national socialist regime of the Second World War. The amounts paid would range from 400 to 1,300 euros. Worse, these payments are net of tax. This scheme of pension of shame was revealed on a large scale in 2016, on the occasion of the commemoration of the 71th anniversary of the end of the Second World War. Thank you again to all of you, citizens mobilized in this context, for alerting the political world about this regime, of which, I think, no one could imagine existence. As far as I'm concerned, it was a real shock. As my colleague Mr Maingain said, after the Second World War, several tens of thousands of Belgian citizens were found guilty of collaboration with the enemy and war crimes by the Belgian courts. A number of them, however, would have benefited from provisions of the Nazi regime granting them German nationality, including members of the Waffen-SS who became German by a 1941 decree. As a result, they and their beneficiaries have received and are still receiving a pension from the German State. Who are they? How many are there? How much do they get? Why are they getting that money? How long have they been touching him? The text addresses many legitimate but complex issues. To answer these various questions, we organised hearings in committee and a parliamentary mission to Berlin last June. We know, as Mr Maingain pointed out, that under German legislation on public services it is the Land of North Rhine-Westphalia which is competent for the beneficiaries of these pensions who live in Belgium. Since then, at the end of February 2019, the German Ministry of Labour has specified that there are 18 beneficiaries of a German war pension in Belgium, and that there are no former SS among them. These beneficiaries are said to be wounded and victims of war, Belgian and non-Belgian, residing in Belgium. This is in any case what the German ambassador once again declared on the RTL plateau a few weeks ago. He did not, however, give further details. At the same time, it will not have escaped you, in an article in the newspaper Le Soir of the weekend of 9 March, that Germany does not exclude having paid pensions to the Belgians who joined the Waffen-SS. And, because of this, it would seem to be true that a real social service for these former SS collabos was organized in Belgium. In any case, some elements accrediting this thesis can be found in excerpts from the Berkenkruis, a publication published by an organization with socialist national affiliations. I will quote a few excerpts from the Berkenkruis edition of July 1970, pages 21 and 22, social service, pension application. It reads the question of a certain A.B., Antwerp: "I was born in 1901. My pension number is... I've been a pensioner since 1966. In the years 1941-1945, he was employed in the Waffen-SS and in Belgian prison from 1945 to 1950. The Belgian authorities do not take these years into account when calculating my pension. As a result of this measure, my pension is reduced to a minimum. What do I have to do to get a full pension?" The newspaper says: "To obtain a positive review of your pension, you must repeat the request to the administration of your municipality where you must explicitly mention your involvement in the German army, followed by a certificate of the time actually spent in Belgian prison. In this document, it should also be noted that "request for a pension from the German Federal Republic for services rendered to Germany" which, according to German pension legislation, are entitled to a pension". In the face of this information, ladies and gentlemen, our House could not do anything other than deal with this issue and try to move the debate forward. First of all, I would like to point out that this text is absolutely not a Community issue or any form of revenge. It is above all a work of memory that is indispensable. This is a scientific and historical work that must be carried out without delay, because I think that we have already waited too long. These are also highly political and diplomatic issues, that is true, but they must nevertheless be dealt with among our friendly and united countries in the European Union's sustainable peace project. Finally, and of course, it is a work of justice for all the victims of Nazism that we must carry out, also without delay, because the victims of Nazism do not receive any allowances while the Belgian collaborators receive a pension on which, as I have already said, they do not even have to pay taxes. The work initiated in the framework of our Assembly, through this text, has made it possible to carry out crucial hearings and to carry out this parliamentary mission. As the report of this mission illustrates, our Assembly was able to see the enormous work of memory that is also being done by our German neighbours. Therefore, with this text and the follow-up that will be given to it by the Belgian Government, our country really has the opportunity to play a pioneering role on this sensitive issue in a Europe that is, today, soothed and pacified. As you said, Mr Maingain, our initiative has received a lot of positive feedback from the European and even the international press. I myself was interviewed by a Russian television who was interested in this issue. The Belgian initiative also raised the same issues in several Member States. Several colleagues in the Netherlands, Germany and Switzerland have launched parliamentary initiatives in their respective assemblies. In particular, this text made it possible to make clear requests to the government: First, to request from the authorities of North Rhine-Westphalia any information that could clarify the current and past pensions granted by Germany to former Belgian employees of the German national socialist regime during the Second World War; second, to send to the authorities of North Rhine-Westphalia data concerning Belgian collaborators and collaborators of foreign nationality residing in Belgium during the Second World War, convicted in Belgium for acts of collaboration with the Nazi occupier; thirdly, to plead - and this is central - with the German Federal Government for the end of the pension scheme granted to Belgian employees; Fourthly, to make the German Federal Government aware of this injustice suffered by the victims of Nazism, who do not receive allowances while Belgian employees receive this pension on which they do not have to pay taxes; fifthly, to set up a scientific committee to draw up a list of beneficiaries of such pensions. This last point seems essential to me in order to make sure that all the light is shed on this issue, thanks to the substantive work of the specialized scientists with the necessary resources. These concrete demands of the federal state are central to facing our past, our present, but also to better prepare our future. For, yes, in the face of such a reality illustrated by this pension system, it is the duty of the political world to follow up and to put an end to the blurry or even taboo that has persisted for too long on this issue in our country. A taboo illustrated by the difficulty we have had, since the tabling of this text, to have it debated and finally to vote, but also to obtain clear answers from the competent ministers to the various questions put to them. A taboo also illustrated by the fact that this system is still being defended by some - like Mr. Willy Kuijpers, a member of the N-VA, should we recall that? I will conclude by recalling that it is the present and future generations that will have to build the world of tomorrow. An increasingly interconnected, mixed and brewed world. A world of extreme wealth, but which by the excesses, caricatures and nationalisms of some, can unfortunately always fall into the dangerous traverses of self-absorbing, populism and ideologies exacerbated by a deep socio-economic crisis and stark inequalities. The future of the European ideal of peace and cooperation between our peoples rests in particular on such a work of voluntarism to ensure that the "Never again!" is not just a slogan, but a real engine for bringing our peoples closer together in a common project, far from the horrors that our continent was at the origin of. Dialogue between our States and scientific work are also keys to moving forward together in this direction. It is not by veiling our face on this past that we will move forward, but on the contrary. That is why the demands made in this proposal aim to restore this memorial justice in line with the historical and moral commitments of the founders of Europe, of which Belgium and Germany have been a decisive part since the beginning.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u168	Mr President, a subject like this certainly deserves attention. Six or seven months ago, we had a discussion in the Committee on External Relations about highlighting this extremely disturbing situation in the German Head of State and even more disturbing to see unbearable in the head of the politicians and those who endured this suffering. Our reflection was driven by what the Memoir Group has reported to us. I welcome the initiative of my colleague Olivier Maingain. We recognized this need to distinguish between those who were forcibly recruited by German troops – they were very numerous in my region – and those who voluntarily chose to betray our country. This distinction is essential to us. It would still remain in 2019, according to the information available, between twenty and thirty beneficiaries of this system. It is therefore crucial to obtain their name from the authorities of the Land of North Rhine-Wesphalia. This is a request that a parliamentary delegation submitted to the competent authorities in Berlin. Of course, we want this obligation to be fulfilled. They assured us of their cooperation, while naturally calling for certain privacy provisions to be respected. Nevertheless, all information must be reported to the authorities of our country in charge of these matters. During this mission, in order to cross-check the data, we provided the list of convicted Belgian collaborators. We have also expressed the will to achieve the total repeal of this pension system by the German Federal Government. I should also like to point out that these pensions are outside a tax system and are paid to individuals who have committed war crimes or even crimes against humanity. Of course, that is something we will never accept. In conclusion, the MR Group would like to stress the absolutely immoral nature of this pension. We strongly call on the Federal Republic of Germany to implement the system we advocate in our resolution. We want to work transparently with the Land of North Rhine-Westphalia to ensure this good exchange of information. We have also considered implementing all the levers to achieve this. It's important. It goes beyond symbolism. This is an issue on which every Democrat in this country must agree. It is a duty of memory that we all have here, ladies and gentlemen. It is a moral obligation that we owe ourselves and that we owe to all those who have fought for us, for this democracy that we all live and cherish here in this House.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u169	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when I heard the report of the Reminder Group, some of which are here, about the payment of pensions by Germany to compatriots convicted of collaboration during the Second World War, I could not believe my ears. Could this still be done 70 years after the end of World War II? Was this injustice still possible with regard to the many victims of the Second World War? Wasn't this still fixed? Were all the peace negotiations and treaties concluded after this terrible war not enough to put this right? Two years later, this story was confirmed, after many conversations with people from the Reminder Group and with specialists, and after a visit by a delegation and a parliamentary committee to Berlin. Turns out what? By a 1941 Hitler decree, countrymen who were members of the Waffen-SS were granted German nationality. This led to the recognition of subsequent pensions. Later, the many Hitler decrees were denazified and the Potsdam Accords lifted the decree. Only those Potsdam Accords were never recognised by the government of the Bundesrepublic. Those who are exactly on the list of beneficiaries have still not been and still cannot be identified. The intention of this resolution is a good starting point for finally, after so many years, a proper representation of those who receive compensation from Germany and for what reason they receive it. There is still a haze of secrecy surrounding these files, which, according to the Reminder Group, maintains a system of insulting memory for those who served the Belgian homeland. The arrangement also undermines the understanding between the peoples of Europe. For these reasons, it seems logical to us, the authors of the resolution, that this form of injustice should be given at least a political signal in honour of the many compatriots who have suffered under occupation and of all who have given their lives for our country. That is why, together with the Members who tabled the resolution, we call on the Nordrhein-Westfalen authorities who manage the files on pensions paid to Belgian citizens to clarify whether they are being given to people convicted of acts of collaboration with the Nazi regime during the Second World War. If such pensions are still paid, it seems logical to us that the German authorities should put an end to this. I suspect that most of us do not imagine that we can continue to tolerate the fact that citizens receive compensation in this case, continue to receive compensation for acts that they consciously carried out for an occupier and for which they were convicted, while victims of Nazism were not compensated. I will conclude with a word of thanks to all my fellow Members for their efforts and for the cooperation around the resolution before us to tackle this injustice.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u170	Mr President, I will be brief, because the Members who have spoken before me have already explained history. On behalf of my group, I would like to congratulate Mr Maingain. After all, we do not think it is possible for people living in Belgium and cooperating in the deportation of people to concentration camps to receive compensation for this. Germany agrees. Mr Maingain, with your initiative we are going to be able to help Germany a little. That's the essence. In committee, we proposed an amendment not to try to amend the German law, which was Mr Maingain's proposal, but to deliver unconditionally to the German authorities the lists of collaborators residing in our country, who are still alive and are receiving a pension, so that we can work faster. Colleagues, speed is important here because two years ago 27 people were still alive and today 22. Mr Maingain, we proposed this so that your resolution could be implemented and have an effect. I am pleased that the committee has unanimously accepted this amendment and that we will be able to proceed to the vote on this resolution. Hopefully, the government, including a government in current cases, will be able to take rapid action to forward these lists to the German authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u171	Mr President, I will also be brief. I think that my colleagues have already given a wide range of reasons why this resolution is important. I would also like to pay tribute here to the representatives of the Memoir Group who have enabled us to address this old issue again. For 70 years, tens or perhaps hundreds of Belgians who collaborated with the Nazi regime probably received pensions while they were part of, among others, the Waffen-SS. This is indeed totally revolting. It took all this time for us to look at this issue, start clarifying it and try to abrogate those pensions. It is also extremely revolting. I welcome the work done and the dialogue that has begun with the German authorities. I am also pleased that this mission to Berlin has taken place. I thank my colleague Michel de Lamotte who was part of this mission for our group. I think we are only at the beginning of the truth on this issue. We know that of the 900,000 Waffen-SS still living after the war, 200,000 resided abroad. In 1998, 20,000 Waffen-SS living abroad were still receiving pensions from Germany for veterans. This problem was largely underestimated by the Länder authorities or by the German federal authorities. We hope that serious work will finally be done by Germany, in collaboration with the various governments concerned, to shed light on those still receiving pensions today, but also on the whole phenomenon. It is important that we document precisely what has happened for so many years in our country. This work and resolution is particularly important when we are aware of the resurgence of certain nostalgic currents in Europe: not only in Belgium, but also in other countries. We must remember all the horror this regime has been, the threat it has posed to the whole world. This resolution has already had its effect, as Mr Maingain has said, since the European media has seized it. The German government acknowledged that the problem was probably underestimated and much more important than it had said. I have proposed to the committee that the resolution should be extended to cover not only Belgians but also those who have been convicted in Belgium. This proposal was adopted by the committee. I tabled amendments here again in plenary, which I would call technical, because it turned out that we worked a little quickly. We have changed the system, application No. 2, but other elements in the text should also have been amended or supplemented by indicating after the word "belge" the words "or convicted in Belgium". These amendments were co-signed by various groups that participated in the work on this resolution. Once again, I am pleased that we can adopt this text, I hope by a very large majority. In fact, it is important to check the state of the situation, but also to carry out a work of memory and documentation on what seems particularly scandalous with regard to the allowances given to executioners whereas, at the same time, persons who had been victims here in Belgium received absolutely no recognition or compensation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u172	Mr President, I am surprised at what is happening here. The fact that we are voting on a resolution in a government of current affairs is in itself a peculiarity. That is why my group has always abstained from resolutions since the fall of the government. No one here denies that the Nazi regime was a humane and murderous regime. However, when I hear that an honorable and very social man like Willy Kuijpers is even being dragged through, I do have a problem with that. It has been possible for decades to do so, and I think that the Flemish Movement has even been a long-asking party to deal with the whole problem of the Second World War, with repression, with epuration, in globo. This has always been rejected mainly from a French-speaking point of view, from a socialist point of view. We are one of the countries that has failed to deal with that past. Hence even someone like Luc Huyse, from a socialist point of view, speaks of an unprocessed past. On the last page of his book he clearly points to the responsibility of the socialist family on both sides of the language border and mainly south of the language border. We have never wanted to pacify all those terrible things that happened after the Second World War. Now, after eighty years, we come up with one file, a symbol file, and that is about twenty people who are now at least ninety-six, but I think that at some point the canvas of history has fallen. The fact that at that time there is still a reminder of what has happened is a good thing. The canvas of history fell after that. At that time, history is the work of historians and no longer of politicians. We are not cooperating with such a symbolic policy and resolutions on matters that could have been settled in a global way for decades, in order to achieve a pacify of what happened after the Second World War, which was then refused to do. My group normally abstains from voting on resolutions before a government in current cases, but we will vote against the resolution before us because it really does symbolize politics.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u173	Is anyone else asking for the floor? Is anyone still asking for the floor? The meeting's over. The discussion is closed. * * * * * * * Amendments tabled: Amendments tabled: Intitulé/Writing • 11 - Georges Dallemagne cs (2243/11) Demand/Request 1 • 12 - Georges Dallemagne cs (2243/11) Demand 3 • 13 - Georges Dallemagne cs (2243/11) Demand/Request 4 • 14 - Georges Dallemagne cs (2243/11) ******
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-14-54-plenair-ip274x.u174	The vote on the amendments that have been tabled and on the whole of the proposal will take place later. The vote on the reserved amendments and on the whole proposal will take place at a later stage. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 14 March 2019 at 7.55 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, March 14, 2019 at 7:55 p.m.
