ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u1	Thank you Madam President, Minister, since the proliferation of cannabidiol stores (CBD) on Belgian territory, the press regularly reports that several controls of these stores have been carried out jointly by the services of the AFSCA (Federal Agency for Food Chain Security) and the Federal Police. CBD is a cannabis flower that has less than 0.2% THC (tetrahydrocannabinol) and is therefore not considered a drug under current legislation. Its sale is therefore allowed and cannabidiol stores are spreading. Today, some of these brands even offer home deliveries. According to the various information published in the media, the main aim of the checks would be to certify that the THC content of the CBD for sale does not exceed the legal rate defined, as well as to verify that these stores do not offer foodstuffs containing CBD, this being illegal in Europe. In order to complete our information on this subject, I would like to ask you the following questions. Do you possibly have information about the number of cannabidiol outlets in Belgium? What is the state of the market in our country? How many controls have been carried out so far by the departments that depend on your departmental oversight? Therefore, what is the status of these field operations? Finally, is there any reflection at the federal government level on the approach to the phenomenon? Has an interdepartmental task force been set up to advise the executive in the direction of its choice? Thank you in advance for all your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u2	Mr Calomne, I do not use this kind of product. [[laughter]] [[.]] I want to draw your attention to the fact that the control operations to which you refer have been requested by the Public Prosecutor's Office. Essentially, they were piloted by the Federal Medicines Agency, which is on the front line – not the AFSCA – in this case. AFSCA does not plan specific controls on foods containing cannabidiol. As with each occurrence of a possible danger to public health, a risk analysis is carried out and, where appropriate, the problem is incorporated into the annual control plan. This is not yet the case. The collaboration between AFSCA and SPF Public Health on cannabidiol-containing foods has also led to the development of a number of tools to facilitate the task of field monitors, a sometimes difficult task given the emergence of a number of new products. These new tools will allow them to identify and suppress practices aimed at diverting food identification. While a retail food trade must always apply for authorisation from the AFSCA, the businesses referred to in your question do not currently have a specific authorisation related to the type of food distributed. AFSCA tells me that there is currently no possible distinction in its database on this subject. I therefore asked AFSCA for further information on its possible management of the phenomenon in the short term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u3	Thank you, Minister. I thank you for all the very comprehensive information you have given us, as well as for your attention to this issue and for the follow-up on this new phenomenon, since it has indeed been a few months since this type of specific store developed, particularly in Brussels. In my municipality, a number of these shops have been opened in recent weeks and this raises a series of questions in the head of citizens and residents, who are wondering about the practices, tolerated or not, of this type of sign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u4	Madam President, I am obviously sorry that I cannot provide more information on this. As I have indicated, the operations in question have been monitored by the Public Prosecutor's Office and I am not in a position to provide additional information on these investigations.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u5	Mr Minister, according to reports I received, in some cities there are OCMWs who, before paying a living wage, during social research to identify the need for a person and take into account integration when calculating income. They therefore take into account the integration dimension for people with disabilities. However, this integration meeting is expressly allocated to cover the additional costs for people with disabilities. They have more costs because they are less self-reliant as a result of their disability. In order to cover these additional costs, they will have an integration meeting. It is therefore not logical that this integration should be taken into account as an income on which one should live. Integration measures cover costs incurred by a person with disabilities and not by a person without disabilities. I believe that taking into account the integration dimension in the income calculation of OCMW clients is illegal. That is not the intention and spirit of the law. Can you confirm that? What will you do to avoid some OMCWs charging integration? Will you, for example, send a letter to the OCMWs to make it clear to them that this is not possible and that they should do it differently?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u6	Mr Minister, my question goes in the same direction. However, it is not about integration, but about the care budget for older people in need of care. 65-plussers suffering from health problems are entitled to that care budget for elderly people in need of care. So much for the good news. For the rest, my story goes in the same direction as Mrs. Lanjri's story. In practice, this system for the elderly with a living wage, which is still lower than the European poverty line, appears to be an empty box. That is my impression, because it is not the first time that this has been mentioned, that the budget for care is deducted from the living wage of these elderly people who have to live on a monthly basis. The healthcare budget is seen as an additional income rather than as a compensation for the cost of the need for care on top of everyday life. People are wondering why these people would still apply for this budget. It doesn't help them. The net monthly amount spent does not increase and the high cost of their care needs is not supported. Flemish social protection in this way actually becomes a subsidy towards federal government. That is a bit painful for the governments whose creed it is to want to support the most vulnerable extra. Minister, how many wage-earners receive the healthcare budget and are in this situation? How many wage-earners could be eligible? Now a lot of people are not encouraged to apply for this budget because it does not take them any step forward. What action have you already taken to correct this and to exempt the budget as an income for the calculation of living wage? Have any calls been made? What'd they get you? How do you reconcile this with other healthcare budgets that are paid out by the Flemish government and which are apparently exempted? Why is this not the case for the care budget for the elderly? In addition to its enormous injustice, this is also an unequal treatment of the most vulnerable in our society.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u7	Madam President, Mrs Lanjri, Mrs Jiroflée, the Sixth State Reform has given the Regions new powers in the area of healthcare budgets. More specifically, when the Flemish Region exercised that competence by extending the target group, in particular to persons over 65, it apparently did not establish the necessary contacts with the federal government prior to this. However, this was necessary to ensure that this reform was compatible with current federal legislation and also to have the potential impact on the new target group. For the calculation of the amount of living wage, account shall also be taken of all income and existing resources available to a person, except for exceptions expressly mentioned in Article 22 of the Royal Decree of 2002 laying down the general rules on the right to social integration. As regards disability, only certain measures have been taken by the sub-areas, exempted by Article 22 of the Royal Decree. Integration is therefore taken into account for the calculation of living wage. As regards the measures at the level of the sub-areas, Article 22 of the Royal Decree explicitly exempts the non-medical assistance and services provided by third parties to a person with reduced capacity for self-care, as well as the allowances received by non-professional care providers from persons in need of care in the context of non-medical assistance and services provided. Therefore, as you rightly pointed out, benefits for people with disabilities should be exempted. For the situation of persons over 65 years of age, I asked my administration to clarify the situation. I attach great importance to the difficulties encountered by the target groups affected. They are the first victims of the situation. Therefore, a consultation with Mr Vandeurzen's cabinet has already taken place to find concrete solutions and to examine the guidelines that can be given to the OMCWs for clarification. It is also necessary to ensure equal treatment of rightholders throughout the territory. The meeting continues.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u8	Madam President, Minister, may I first ask one more question for clarification? The law states that all income must be taken into account. However, the exceptions are also included in Article 22 of the Royal Decree of 2002. What about integration? Is there an exception that this should not be taken into account? I am pleased that you are replying that in your view this should not be taken into account. You will clarify this in a letter, which is good. I'm glad you're of the same opinion. However, what was the status of the regulation? That's not entirely clear to me. I was of the opinion that the concession should not be taken into account by law anyway. However, I am glad that you want to correct the problem. If I understand correctly, you will soon make a letter to resolve the problem of the integration fee. You can record that immediately. You don't need the Regions for that. Integration is, after all, a federal issue. I therefore hope that you will be able to send a letter on this matter immediately. Then that problem has already been solved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u9	I hear what you're saying, Mrs. Lanjri. There is, however, one element to be taken into consideration, of course, that the government is in day-to-day business. I would therefore like to move forward quickly with Mr Vandeurzen in order to be able to estimate also, within the framework of the budget, the cost of an additional measure for people who do not receive sufficient aid. Following the postponement of a meeting scheduled for the end of last week with Mr Vandeurzen, it will take place very soon and I want to finish our exchange first. Possibilities for action must be analysed with him and, as the government is in day-to-day business, it seems to me complicated, even through a circular. I myself am not opposed, once the budget supplement is assessed, to supporting parliamentary initiatives in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u10	All right, minister, but the integration allowance is a federal and non-regional responsibility. I wonder if this provision is already provided for in the law. If this is the case, the CPAS must apply it. Even if a circular is not enough, we can use the intermediary of the Association of Cities and Municipalities, which could perhaps contact the municipalities also with regard to our competence, the integration allowance. The second point referred to by Mrs Jiroflée in her question was indeed a strictly regional one.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u11	This is not a debate, these are questions with a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u12	Minister, I also hear your good intentions. I do not doubt your good will, but in the meantime, a five-year reign is over. The care budget for the elderly is indeed not the responsibility of the federal government but of the regions, but the federal government reduces the living wage budget if one gets a healthcare budget. You can make that right. I understand that you cannot do this with a circular letter but that this needs to be changed by law. The healthcare budget is not one of the exceptions you mentioned. Then you must make an exception. I think this is possible if you take a legal initiative. You say that we will have to make an estimate of integration. I had two specific questions about this. How many life labourers receive the healthcare budget and are in that situation? How many could be eligible but not apply for it? You need these figures to be able to take an initiative, but you have not answered those questions. I'd really like to know how many people it's about and how many people it could be about. Finally, Minister, I would like to say that at the moment a number of cities are adapting themselves, because they can no longer see the injustice and because people are in real need of care. Indeed, certain cities such as Leuven are threatening to recover it from you by judicial means, because that is not their job. I really would have liked to know more concretely about how many people it is and how many people it could be about. I would also have liked to know in what correct way something can be done about this. You are referring to a consultation with Vandeurzen's cabinet, and it is very good that this is discussed, but what can be done about it in concrete terms? As I see it, you must take a legislative initiative here, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u13	I wish we didn't turn the situation around. At the outset, the situation also arises from the fact that the Flemish authority has not taken all the assurances aimed at the compatibility of its reform with the existing legislation. I immediately replied "present" to Mr Vandeurzen. There's already been a meeting and there'll be more. We know that this is a problem of interpretation and that it needs to be clarified. Can this be done by circular during current business? What will be the cost to the federal level? At the end of the dialogue, I intend to tell you the ways in which we can be clarified and the means that will be ours in times of day-to-day business. I will also let you know quickly whether any initiatives should be taken at parliamentary level. In the meantime, I am obliged to finish the round of consultations with Mr Vandeurzen.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u14	I give the floor to Members for a very brief reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u15	Minister, I am pleased to hear you say that integration should not be taken into account. Apparently, the Royal Decree must be adapted to that effect, in particular the exceptions provided for in Article 22. You say that a parliamentary initiative must be taken to that end. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u16	We're not gonna restart the discussion. I have just been very flexible in the allocation of speaking time for questions, answers and replies. Mrs Jiroflée, I give you the floor for a final reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u17	Minister, it is possible that the Flemish Region has not taken the appropriate measures in the federalisation process. That is not my concern; I do not feel responsible for what the Flemish Government is doing. It is a fact that the federal government charges that in the calculation of the living wage. I think you need to fix that. That is why I asked you an oral question on this. I hope that you will take an initiative in the near future, by appointment, of course, with Flemish Minister Vandeurzen, because that is really a problem. Again, at the moment some cities fit the difference, simply because otherwise people don't live.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u18	Minister, you are again asking for the floor, but I have already been very flexible. It has to stop now.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u19	You give the impression that clarifying things with a circular is not a problem in a day-to-day business. But it has a budgetary impact!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u20	That'll close the incident.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u21	Current affairs also involve budgetary prudence and I respect the rules on this matter. As soon as we have completed the round of negotiations with Mr Vandeurzen, I shall return to you. My will is of course to meet the social interest of this category as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u22	I shall give Members the floor for another thirty seconds for a final reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u23	Of course, Minister, that has a budgetary impact. That is your responsibility and the responsibility of the government. It should have been in order a long time ago. Now you're really pissing me off. It's your responsibility, so you have to take care of it, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u24	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u25	Stop, Minister. I give the last word to Mrs Lanjri.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u26	Mr Minister, I would just like to say that most OMCWs seem to be applying this correctly, but that it is being misapplyed in some OMCWs. It is unfair that the integration of the living wage should be deducted solely on the basis of the applicant's place of residence. The application for an integration measure does not really make any sense. It is therefore simply illogical that some OCMWs do not take this into account. That needs to be solved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u27	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u28	No, Mrs. Jiroflée, we're stopping. Speaking time is normally two minutes for a question, two minutes for an answer and one minute for a reply. We're continuing our work now.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u29	Madam President, I do not wish to turn to the Minister anymore, but merely to make a practical point. It is not nice that both questions were linked, as the substance is actually two different things. I would like to report that so that in future the services of the Chamber may be better able to cope with this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u30	That's right. I understand why the services have combined both questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, you have all been given a great deal of speaking time. I will now make up for some time by keeping a strict timeline on the next question, because it is an oral question from myself.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u32	Minister, I have a follow-up question to a written question I asked you about the contacts between the BFSA and the Justice Department. I asked you about your promise that the BFSA would provide the committee with all information about the contacts with Justice since October 2016. In my written question I had written wrongly October 2018, hence perhaps the confusion. You replied that you didn't find any of that, but I gave you the page of the integral report where the quote is. So my question is very brief: do we still get the promised information from the BFSA?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u33	Mrs Dedry, I am sorry, but if you are mistaken about the year in your written question, as you yourself admit, you cannot attribute it to me and then blame yourself for not getting the answer you expected. As far as the substance of the matter is concerned, I invite you to take note of the BFSA report drawn up with a view to the United Commission to which you refer. You will find the information you are asking for, but make no mistake about my goodwill in this regard: if you want more precise information, you can always ask me in the context of a new written question. In addition, the answer you are asking for is ten pages. I am prepared to give you all the information you want on this subject, but if you are wrong in the year, I do not understand the meaning of your question. If you want all the information related to the implementation of the protocol between AFSCA and Justice to be shared with you, there is no problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u34	OK, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u35	Madam President, Minister, I refer to my written question of 7 November on illegal imports into our country of bushmeat. I heard from the media that Mr. Jan Eyckmans, spokesperson of the FPS People's Health, promised, and I quote, "that by the end of this year," that was in 2018, "the government would have reliable data on this. Mr Eyckmans continued: 'These are data that we will share with customs and the Food Agency, so that, on the basis of our information, much more targeted controls can be organized on flights at risk and that the number of seizures and prosecutions can also go up'. Minister, I have three simple questions. First, are those reliable data already available, as mentioned at the end of 2018? Secondly, what is its content? Thirdly, will these data be passed on to the FPS Finance, so that customs can carry out more targeted controls?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u36	Madam President, Mr Janssens, this is an important question and I thank you for it. I've taken note of the reports broadcast by the VRT and RTBF. It is, of course, worrying because this is a protected species. It is, of course, absolutely essential to take effective action against illegal imports of exotic animals. I think it is important to describe the role of the various services involved. The BFSA certainly exercises a competence regarding the legal import of bushmeat. However, it is the customs that stands in the front row with regard to its illegal import. Customs are the responsibility of the Minister of Finance. I am thinking in particular of the checks carried out in principle by his services on the access points to our territory in ports and airports. Several services work together on baggage checks for third-country travellers at different airports. In addition to customs and the FPS Public Health, the BFSA and the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products are important elements in this cooperation. In addition, in order to have all relevant elements in the dossier, a study on pathogens will be launched in the first half of 2019. The results of this research will be published in 2019, following a symposium organised by the FPS Public Health. A scientific publication is also planned. Mr Janssens, a sample of illegal imports showed that 40% of the seized meat was from protected animals. These figures are, of course, disturbing. It is therefore essential to strengthen cooperation between the competent authorities in order to combat this fact. In order to act better in consultation, I asked my cabinet to establish a coordination meeting with my colleague's cabinet responsible for finance. As you know, he exercises custody of customs. The Customs and the BFSA have been part of the Steering Committee since the beginning of the study you mentioned. The recommendations on the results of this study were also drawn up with the approval of the Advisory Committee. The decision and the results of the study will also be discussed at the abovementioned colloquium.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u37	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Dierick's 28406 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u38	Mr Minister, I am asking this question in response to my question of May 2018. That question was then about the fact that the OCMW of Antwerp had ordered a private company to detect benefit fraud. You replied that you would instruct your services to make a legal analysis of the sub-contracting of social research to a third party, a private player. On Friday, January 18th, the media published that the legal investigation of your services had shown that it is illegal to outsource the social research by OCMWs to third parties. Such outsourced investigations, such as those carried out by the Dutch company Soza Xpert by the Antwerp OCMW, constitute a breach of professional secrecy and are therefore unlawful. I had already indicated last year that I suspected that. It must be clear that fraud, both socially and fiscally, must always be tackled hard. I think you share that view. There must be no abuse. The means of living should be provided to those who need it most. The government itself must comply with the laws and tackle fraud in a legally binding manner. I have already put forward some reflections to you, which would allow for even more legal detection of benefit fraud. For example, I believe that the detection of double-tax fraud is legally conclusive, which is also entirely the responsibility of the public authorities, without having to outsource tasks to private partners. The thought trail launched last year by the government to set up a federal fraud agency is also interesting. You replied last year that you would investigate those two and other thoughts to address abuse in a legal way. Minister, how exactly did the investigation into the Antwerp approach proceed? What did the investigation show? How exactly did they deal with it in Antwerp? What was legal and what was illegal? Apparently, the board wasn't prepared to quit until you threatened to go to court. Is that right? Could you give me a little more explanation? What tools have you examined that would legally contribute to improving the fight against benefit fraud? Have you already taken steps in the fight against benefit fraud? You also said last year that you were determined to investigate the track of the federal fraud agency. That was decided at the Budget Conclave of March 2018. Has the government already taken steps to set up such a fraud agency? What is the state of this? What has been the outcome of your research on the double taxation treaties? Do you agree with me that through such treaties we can better detect fraud? Former Finance Minister Johan Van Overtveldt was also fond of the run of the double taxation treaties. Unfortunately, he hasn't been able to finish that job. Have you already sat with his successor, Minister Alexander De Croo, to tackle the fight against fraud through double taxation treaties? What steps have already been taken in this respect? What further steps will be taken? Will the resulting data also be used by the social workers of the OMCWs if they do a resource study on people applying for a living wage, or already have a living wage? If that is the case, can the OCMW employees themselves check in a legal way whether customers have income from abroad?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u39	Minister, I am following some of Mr Lanjri's points of view, especially when she asks for alternatives. What I do not share, of course, is the jippie-yes-jee vote of I was right; Antwerp has gone too far. I think that a big city like Antwerp has rightly sought a way, which is apparently not made possible by you federally, to find out if customers who could have property abroad were committing fraud on the hood of the real underprivileged in our country. I have no feeling whatsoever that this has shown that it is not legal under current legislation. What I find quite appalling is that, as I hear from Mr Lanjri, you, as Minister of Antwerp, are threatening instead of offering an alternative. The facts remain the same. It is only natural that there should be a proper investigation of resources when someone wants to count on our public support and receive a living wage. In fact, the number of living wages continues to rise. It is only logical to check whether people are entitled to this and whether they do not have any other accounts or property abroad. Why is that so logical? That's because the money doesn't grow on trees. I'd really like the money to go to the people who really need it. That's the logic itself. The fact that Antwerp has tried to do what it can, with the number of living wages it has, is something I find admirable. I find it less admirable that a federal government, when it turns out that this is not legally possible, is not seeking an alternative, but is merely focused on stopping an initiative that has grown from the bottom up. Then how do you intend to deal with this social fraud? I hear about the double taxation treaties here, but it is well known that they cannot be concluded with all countries. There are even countries where there are no land registers, and that is something we cannot begin with. That federal fraud agency sounds good, but when will it be? They will follow the same procedure as the private agencies. The latter work with great success in the Netherlands. For me, therefore, it seems obvious that legislation should be introduced to enable the procedure in question to be applied. After all, what does it have to do with professional secrecy? People are just gonna look for facts and see where people might have hidden resources. In fact, Minister, I have often asked you to also give the social assistants at the OCMWs access to their customers' accounts. They don't have that today. If a customer claims to have only one account, the balance of which he has, then that's the way to do it. However, it is very easy to open another account with a very different balance. I have been asking for this for years and Minister Van Overtveldt was willing to cooperate, but today the regulation still does not exist. Instead of focusing on Antwerp, where at least one has tried to tackle fraud, one should focus on detecting fraud, so that the money can go to the people who deserve it and need it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u40	Mrs Lanjri, Mrs Van Peel, first of all I repeat that I am fully committed to combating social fraud. This must be done in accordance with legislation and fundamental rights. With regard to the examination of the working methods of the OCMW of Antwerp, I would like to make the following point. Having taken note of the decision of the OCMW of Antwerp to assign the research into foreign real estate to an external private company, I have instructed my administration to investigate this method. The in-depth legal analysis of my administration showed that outsourcing to a private investigator of part of the social research, in particular property research abroad, is contrary to the organic OCMW law and professional secrecy. In fact, the organic OCMW law expressly states that it belongs exclusively to a social worker to conduct the whole of social research. My administration has informed the OCMW of this and has called for an end to this illegal practice. If not, the file would be submitted to the King's Attorney. In response to that letter, the president of the OCMW of Antwerp confirmed that the OCMW would no longer call on an external firm. The Council of Ministers of 30 March 2018 entrusted the Anti-Fraud Committee with the task of examining the measures that can be taken in the fight against fraud involving foreign real estate and movable property. My administration has actively participated in the committee, which is coordinated by the Minister responsible for combating social fraud, Philippe De Backer. My cabinet is fully involved in the implementation of the working group's proposals. Three axes are being considered. Firstly, there is the improvement of the exchange of data on the tax return and the future version of the bank account database via the Crossroads Bank of Social Security. I attach great importance to the further development of data flows at the disposal of the OCMWs, including for access to foreign real estate, indicated by the FPS Finance. Secondly, there is the integration of the social assistance finalities into the international conventions, which already exist or are still to be negotiated. In this context, my administration has been in contact with the Netherlands with a view to exchanging information on real estate. Thirdly, there is an analysis of the feasibility in Belgium of a system that exists in the Netherlands using a multidisciplinary coordination centre for the international exchange of information on fraud.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. It is a complex and important problem. I never, not last year, nor now, yelled hooray. I have always said that the misuse of resources intended for the weakest cannot be done, that these resources must be made available to the weakest and that any abuse must be dealt with. It is then very logical that the government should also deal with the fight against fraud itself in a legal way. One cannot expect a citizen to comply with the law if the government itself does not do so. That's what I said last year. I said at the time that the procedure was contrary to the organic law on the OCMWs and that professional secrecy was violated. That's what the investigation you've been conducting shows. The most important thing is that we now know how to deal with it. I understand there are now three thoughts. It is important that this third piste, in order to set up a federal fraud agency where OCMW staff can get their information, be examined further and that the agency gets there as soon as possible. I realise that the government is in progress, but it is possible to continue the work of such an agency so that it can start the next legislature as soon as possible and deal with any form of abuse.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u42	Minister, laws are there to be changed. Saying something isn't legal, we can all go home here. I think that's a silly argument. I have a double feeling that there will be a working group: on the one hand, I am glad that there will be a working group; on the other hand, I am not happy, because that usually means in our home here that we will be working on a solution for years to come, when it is not a new problem. When Antwerp was looked at at a certain point, a working group should have been set up immediately. I've been asking about the exchange of information on the number of accounts for four years. It is very easy to allow it, and that has nothing to do with professional secrecy. There are sufficient ICT opportunities for this. I do not understand why a working group should look at this again. The Dutch model exists and works; that can be copied. I do not understand why there should be a working group on this. What I'm missing here again is decisiveness. If a government shows some decisiveness, then this is done in a very contemptuous way. So I don't share that feeling.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u43	Mr Minister, unfortunately I have to come back to a question about the food banks, because the problem of shortages is reappearing there. It is appalling that more than 157 000 Belgians still have to call for emergency aid and resort to food aid today. If they did not receive this food aid, these people would be starving. On 18 October 2018, I asked you a question during the plenary session about the problems of supplying food under the Fund for European Aid to the Most Deprived (FEAD). Several food distribution organizations then raised the alarm, because the distribution by the POD of the FEAD goods had been greatly delayed. This delay in the 2018 purchase campaign would allow deliveries to start in February 2019 at the earliest. During the plenary session of 18 October, you said that you would ask your administration to investigate that and to extend the deliveries of the 2017 campaign. The PPS Social Integration later communicated on urgent measures to be taken for the 2018 campaign. These were three measures: firstly, a redistribution of stocks between the food banks that still have food and those that no longer have food; secondly, an allowance of EUR 150,000 that would be distributed between food banks and stores for the purchase of food for the primary necessities; and thirdly, the extension of the 2017 tender for three products, namely olive oil, chocolate and jam. Although the PPS has announced those measures, they were apparently not sufficient. On 15 January 2019, several newspapers said that the food banks and charitable organisations once again had shortages in their stock. According to Mr Mottar, deputy director of the Belgian Federation of Food Banks, several food banks had large deficits. Also in the province of Limburg, the association Sint-Vincentius had been in stock for months. It was particularly problematic for the basic products. Milk, pasta, olive oil, chocolate, etc. apparently they haven't been able to get in for months. Due to delays, several organisations have had to use their own resources to continue to offer quality food packages, but this obviously prevented them from financing other important initiatives, such as the purchase of school materials and the like. Large organisations have been able to do so at times, but smaller organisations do not have these resources and have had to temporarily stop the food distribution. This is, of course, dramatic, because in the long term some people will no longer get food packages and will be hungry. I have the following questions. When were the three urgent measures taken? Were these measures evaluated and what were the results? What do you think are the reasons why different food banks and organisations are still in their stock despite everything? When will the first deliveries of the 2018 campaign take place? In principle, that should have happened by now, but is it? Fourthly, one of the problems repeatedly raised by the organisations is the only partial delivery of ordered products. Some organisations have received on average only 51% of the products ordered. According to the PPS Social Integration, this is a consequence of the calls for tenders. The charitable organisations are allowed to order as many products as there are wagers within their congregation. Only afterwards will the POD issue tenders for those orders. Depending on the offers received, and especially on the prices offered, the POD orders the products that are then delivered to the organisations. For different products, the POD does what is possible for the offered prices, but for the charitable organisations there is apparently still a lot of uncertainty about this. They expect them to get what they ordered, but that is not the case. Do you agree with me that there is at least a need for a much better flow of information from the POD to the associations? Organisations are clearly not informed of the results of tenders and tenders received. This should be improved in the future. Is it possible for the POD to let the organisations know in advance how many products and what goods they will receive on the basis of the awards granted? In this way, organisations can better assess how many products they will have, how to fill their food packages, and what they may need to recoup in a different way. In what way do you want to work on this together with the POD?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u44	Mrs Lanjri, as you know, the Federal Government has made food aid one of its priorities. The Belgian budget allocated to the FEAD or the Fund for European Aid to the Most Necessary was substantially increased during this legislature. Since 2013, the government has invested EUR 14 million in the purchase of food aid, well above the Belgian commitments entered in the FEAD 2013-2020 programming. Thanks to this commitment, 32 000 tonnes of products were distributed among the most deprived throughout the Belgian territory in 2017. In order to deal with the problems of public procurement arising from the non-conformity of tenders submitted by tenderers and in order to avoid interruptions in the distribution of food aid, I made EUR 350 000 available in the course of November 2018. First, EUR 150 000 was allocated to thirteen umbrella organisations, the food banks and three large stores for the purchase of food. This money was paid from December 2018. In addition, three lots of the 2017 contract were renewed for an amount of EUR 200 000. The delivery of the products has already taken place. Finally, the surpluses of certain organisations were redistributed at the beginning of January 2019. Particular attention was paid to those organisations most in need of it, in particular through milk deliveries at the beginning of January. In addition, the deliveries of the 2018 contract's products started in mid-February 2019. They should be spread out until March 2020, at the pace of 2 to 3 product types per month. I understand the concerns of the organisations. They do remarkable work on the ground. However, I would like to point out that the FEAD provides only 50% of the food distributed by the food banks in Belgium. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the organisations at Flemish level receive proportionally less food than the organisations in Wallonia and Brussels. This is because the Flemish authorities have chosen to contribute less to the FEAD budget. I also agree with you on the possibilities of simplifying the existing system. Of course, I have already asked the PPS Social Integration to provide information to the organisations concerned on the arrangements for orders and deliveries.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u45	Minister, there is still a lot of work to be done. I understand it's a shared responsibility. These are European resources, federal resources and regional resources. You say that in Flanders less money is spent on it than in the other regions. I will certainly pass that on to the Flemish colleagues. We will insist that more resources should be allocated from Flanders to this food supply. I think it is really important for everyone to take responsibility. I would also like to ask you to improve communication with the organisations so that they know at least that what they are ordering will not actually get. They think that, but it works completely differently. What your administration can do, including in current cases, is to ensure that organisations are much better informed, so that they are better prepared and know what products they need to acquire in a different way. That's very important. I am pleased that you have promised to go through the problem of communication and information further, along with your administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u46	Minister, on Wednesday 30 January, the Polish prosecutor's office in Ostroleka announced that it had opened an investigation into the slaughter and marketing of sick cattle by a local slaughterhouse, following a television report by a journalist who had been hired on this site. A total of 2.7 tonnes of this meat was sold to ten European countries. According to AFSCA, no shipments of meat from sick cows slaughtered illegally in Poland would have arrived in Belgium. Of course, I welcome this good news. Nevertheless, while the Veviba scandal is still fresh in everyone's head, this news does not fail to revive bad memories. For greater serenity, I would like some clarification. Are there any additional measures in place to ensure that this meat does not cross our borders? Does this new case not highlight certain shortcomings in the controls on meat circulating within the internal market? Are you considering introducing certain measures to strengthen controls at European level? If so, which ones?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u47	Mr de Lamotte, thank you for your question on an important subject. You know, of course, that the rules of the European Union are based on the principle of the free movement of goods and services. That is why, it must be said, our ability to take additional control measures is quite limited, particularly if they were to be directed at another Member State, since the European authorities might consider this initiative discriminatory. Protection measures must therefore be taken at European level. In the present case, the Polish authorities have taken initiatives to trace the products in the intra-Community market. I note that, in this case, the system has proved its effectiveness. Fraud does exist, but the protection system has shown that it works, as well as the exchange of information between Member States. The notification via RASFF (Rapid Alert for Food and Feed) has been transmitted by Poland to other countries as well as to the Commission and the heads of veterinary services. The majority of the meat in question could be located and destroyed. In this respect, the AFSCA informs us that, on the basis of the information in its possession, Belgium has not been affected by these non-compliant Polish meats. The investigations continue, of course, but we are therefore not concerned. My French counterpart, with whom we are working correctly, spoke at the Agriculture Council of the European Union on 28 January last about the possibility of setting up a team of European experts on food security. This task force would have been responsible for carrying out checks in the various Member States in order to ensure that new food scandals would no longer take place. I have spoken in this Council to say that Belgium would support an initiative in this direction, but we are still waiting for a more formal and concrete proposal. We therefore commit ourselves very regularly at European level in a way that aims at further optimising food safety controls. In addition, my office has been able to contact the European Commission to find out what action it intends to take on this issue. Following the frauds found on the Veviba site, measures to strengthen the fight against fraud in the meat sector were taken without delay. I am thinking in particular of the enhanced control measure. The meat sector has never been as controlled in this country as it is today. We have tightened the rules on compliance with traceability and labelling requirements. Enhanced controls have been carried out at slaughterhouses, meat cutting shops and cold storage facilities every quarter since April 2018. I will sustain the system, because these controls will continue in 2019, focusing more on the risks of fraud. AFSCA officers will now carry out at least one check per year in each facility in the sector that will specifically target potential frauds in order to better combat them and further raise our level of food security. If these checks are necessary, it should not be forgotten, at a time when meat is very unfairly criticized, that the vast majority of operators in this sector are perfectly in order, that Belgian meat is of high quality and that its level of control is particularly high. If you wish, Mr. de Lamotte, let's eat a coast as soon as we can get out of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u48	Madam President, I take note of the minister's proposal for a moment that is pleasant at his best. Thank you for your answers confirming that the meat has been destroyed, Minister. I note that you are in the European context in which you support the position of your French colleague. It seems to me that we must persevere because the guarantee of effective control is the guarantee of the quality of production of our farmers in Belgium. The sector must remain proactive and continue to implement measures to ensure that farmers who do not cheat do not have problems and that they can sell their quality products as they already do today.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u49	Minister, the press has reported the problem of a stock of ammunition dating from the First World War with a risk of spreading its components in nature. The problem would be on Knokke's side. Minister, could you please tell us if the services of the AFSCA were eventually mobilized to investigate any health risks to fish consumers? Have any measures been taken in consultation with your colleagues in the Federal Government and the Flemish Executive to assist traders and fishermen in the face of a possible health risk? More broadly, what is the status of the situation on the ground?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u50	Mr Calomne, articles recently published in the press mention a stock of ammunition dating from the First World War in a fairly limited area – three square kilometres – where fishing is prohibited. There has been a search for organochlorine pesticide residues, heavy metals, dioxins and PCBs, as well as polyhalogenated compounds in fish and seafood. This has been part of the AFSCA control plan for many years. These controls cover the various links in the food chain. I am pleased to confirm to you that the results of the controls conducted by AFSCA do not show any anomalies with respect to the substances mentioned. We can therefore be reassured with regard to seafood and the impact on the health of seafarers and tourists. Of course, I have this answer at your disposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u51	Minister, thank you for this reassuring response, which will not prevent me from savoring a good fish during my next visit to the Zoute. Perhaps we will have the opportunity to share – if not a coast with M. de Lamotte – a sole this summer!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u52	Minister, I would like to ask you about the methodology adopted by EFSA for the assessment of pesticide risks to bees, and more specifically about the last meeting of the SCOPAFF Committee held on January 24 and 25, 2019. At the meeting, the Commission proposed two main things to EU governments. The aim is, on the one hand, to implement only a small part of the 2013 EFSA Guidelines in all EU pesticide risk assessments and, on the other hand, to instruct EFSA to review these recommendations. For us, this Commission proposal removes the requirements for assessing chronic toxicity and toxicity to bee larvae. It also removes the time limits within which the EU should assess all pesticides to determine the potential risks to wild bees. If this proposal were to succeed, the Union would hinder the application of the EFSA's detailed guidance document on bees rather than advance it. This would block the application of advanced bee safety standards for pesticides in the coming years. Mr Minister, what position did the Belgian Government support in the face of such a Commission proposal? For more details, can you give us more information about these different elements? This is first of all the Commission Regulation EC 283/2013 which requires manufacturers to submit chronic toxicity and toxicity tests for larvae. However, as part of the current proposals, these tests will not be evaluated in accordance with EFSA's 2013 guidance document on bees. Is it correct that the EU ignores the relevant safety data submitted by manufacturers? Next, EFSA's risk assessments for bees of three neonicotinoids, published in 2016 and 2018, were all based on EFSA's 2013 guidance document on bees. Is it correct that the EU evaluates some pesticides, but not others, according to the latest risk assessment methodology? Will this not lead to a situation in which the European Union will pave the way for the approval of the placing on the market of pesticides which could be just as dangerous for bees? Finally, how will your government manage the evaluation of formulated products? Will it use the EFSA guidance document on bees, regardless of the EU decision, or will it use obsolete 2002-2010 directives?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u53	EFSA Bee Guidance aims to implement new methodologies to better assess the risk of plant protection products to bees. We know how important this is. I support this document and even wish to go further, for example by assessing chronic toxicity and not just acute toxicity, or by examining toxicity for bumblebees but also for other wildlife species and not only for domestic bees. I can therefore reassure you that Belgium is one of the European countries that has preceded the Committee. In 2017, as part of the Bees Plan, our country published a national guidance document that already implements the EFSA guide. Belgium has always advocated the adoption of the EFSA guidance document, although some elements, especially the test protocols, are not yet available. This explains the postponement of the application of the said document. With regard to chronic toxicity and toxicity to bee larvae, Belgium has always insisted on the immediate application of the guidance document. It should be noted that a plan that provides for the immediate application of the guidance document with respect to chronic toxicity and toxicity to bee larvae does not currently enjoy a qualified majority necessary to have the document adopted. The Commission has been looking for a solution for the implementation of the guidance document for the past five years. It finally proposed a plan to implement the guidance document which no longer provides for the immediate application of parts related to chronic toxicity and toxicity to bee larvae. On behalf of Belgium, I can only regret this situation, especially since it is already applying this document. But finally, the Commission has indicated that it can accept, with reluctance - it must be said - this latest version of the implementation plan. This position is therefore justified by the fact that a plan, even if not ambitious, is always preferable to the current situation, i.e. a complete blockage. It is clear, however, that if a qualified majority were to emerge, Belgium would support the Commission's proposal while continuing, Mrs Schlitz, to apply the EFSA document. In recent years, EFSA has consistently relied on its guidance document for all active substances it evaluates, despite the fact that this document has not yet been adopted by the Commission. The data to be submitted by producers of active substances under Regulation EC 283/2013 are therefore not ignored in the EU assessment process. They are all evaluated by EFSA using the evaluation methodology of the guidance document. At the national level, we have decided to apply the guidelines of the EFSA guidance document. In particular, it is clearly stated that all studies under Regulation 284/2013, which are the data requirements to be submitted for formulations, must be properly applied and that the evaluation of studies concerning chronic toxicity and toxicity to bees larvae must be carried out in accordance with the EFSA guidance document. I think you can consider how much we want to be at the forefront on these issues.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1054x.u54	Mr Minister, I thank you for these encouraging answers regarding Belgium's position. It is regrettable that there are still blockages at European level, but I have no doubt that you will try to convince your counterparts of the importance of this qualified majority.
