ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1036x.u1	Question No 28171 by Mrs Grovonius is transformed into a written question. Question No 28434 by Mrs Fernandez Fernandez is postponed. Joined Questions No 28437 by Mrs Fernandez Fernandez and No 28702 by Mr Dallemagne are postponed. Mrs Jadin is not present to ask her question No 28516. Question No 28562 by Mrs Fernandez Fernandez is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1036x.u2	For more than six months I have been trying to get a look at the contracts concluded between, on the one hand, the United States and Belgium, on the other hand, the State-to-State agreements and, on the other hand, the contracts signed with the manufacturer Lockheed Martin. Before the government's decision at the end of October, I was told that this right of access could not be given for the sake of the manufacturer's business secrets. I was hoping this viewing right would work out after the decision. The then full Swedish majority decided to limit that right to the members of the Army Procurement and Sales Commission. Moreover, colleagues who were members of that committee should not only look at this in difficult circumstances, they should also remain silent about it. Then I wrote to the Court of Auditors to ask if I could look at the file at the Court of Auditors. Unfortunately, on 6 February I received an answer from the Court of Auditors that, as long as the Court of Auditors is conducting its investigation, I cannot have access to the file. I must conclude from this that it is very regrettable that there is no right of scrutiny for Members of Parliament in the largest military purchase file for the next 40 or 50 years. Mr. Secretary, you are my last leave. I come to you and I ask you to investigate the three agreements. Two from state to state, October 25th and 27th, I think. That's all I found out, maybe that information isn't complete. Mr President, would you like to investigate whether, in view of the wording of the agreements I do not know, we still have an opportunity to come out of the agreements that have been concluded? Experts tell me that this should be possible, especially with regard to state-to-state agreements. Others have done this, for example Canada. But the agreement with Lockheed-Martin, who, to the extent that my information is correct from the press, is only about compensation, must also be defeated. Again, I can't see those lyrics. We don't get a chance to submit those texts to our own chosen experts. So, Minister, would you like to examine these agreements and see if we can still get out of them? I have two important arguments for this, which I would like to put to the committee today. The first argument has already been used: the continuing concern about the technical performance of the aircraft. A new Pentagon report came out on 31 January this year. I will not list all the defects found, but I will give you two. They must be for every responsible member of the Chamber, and certainly the responsible minister, who must take care of the budgetary situation we are facing. The first is technical. I quote Pentagon's doubts: "Cyber security testing raised concerns about a number of vulnerabilities that still have not been cured, raising concerns giving the growing concerns about complex, state backed cyberattacks." So this plane is, basically, a flying supercomputer. The Pentagon says in this report that the supercomputer on that plane is very vulnerable. A second element contained in that report is the Pentagon's finding that maintenance costs would not increase the operating costs per aircraft from EUR 4 million to EUR 7 million per year. So far as the technical performance is concerned. I shall now come to my final point. Another argument that I believe is far more politically important is the choice that Germany has made. A few days ago, Germany made the choice for which my group has been advocating for a long time, the choice of a European defence. You're also Secretary of State, a happy combination. Is Germany's heavy-handed decision not in itself a sufficient reason to turn a blind eye and, instead of opting for a contribution to an American-oriented defence, to go decisively for European defence?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1036x.u3	I would ask Members to respect the timing. I've asked you a few times.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1036x.u4	I've waited a long time to ask my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1036x.u5	Mr van der Maelen, I have also waited a very long time to give an answer. Firstly, in current cases we maintain the same rules for the access of Members of Parliament to files. I haven't decided on a single change. Secondly, I will read all the studies, including those of the Pentagon. I hadn't heard from the Pentagon that the F-35 was a bad plane. However, this may still be the case. I will be in touch with Washington next week and I will then ask the opinion of my American colleagues on this. We are aware that the German Government would have decided to exclude the F-35 from the competition to replace the German Tornado ECR and the older types of Eurofighter fighter planes. Only the Eurofighter Typhoon and the American F-18 Super Hornet would remain as possible replacement devices. As far as we know, the German authorities have not yet explained that decision. So we do not know what the motives are. Each country is sovereign in such choices. The German position in this respect has no impact on the decision taken by the Belgian Government concerning the replacement of the current F-16 combat air capacity. Although this issue is not topical, our agreement with the US Government can in theory be denounced, just like any other agreement. The financial consequences of such termination would depend on the stage of implementation of the agreement and could therefore only be calculated at that time. This decision would also affect Belgium's ability to have an operational fleet of aircraft that allows it to continue to carry out its defence missions at national and international level. I would remind you that this choice allows us to work with several NATO countries that have made the same choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1036x.u6	Minister, I would remind you that the government is in progress. I would therefore ask you to announce a freeze or a standstill and not to take any further steps in this matter. I listened very carefully to your answer. You have said that it is possible, as before any agreement, to get out of it. The cost of the break-up will depend on the state of the file. That is all the more reason not to take any further steps in this dossier and leave it to the next government to decide whether or not it wants to take the step to refrain from purchasing the F-35. That's already happened in Canada. Finally, I would like to point out two important points in the German decision. I know this only from the international press, but the German decision will create a serious problem for nuclear capacity, for tactical nuclear bombs. Germany did consider it. So I would like to make an additional plea to abandon the F-35, so that we can get rid of those tactical nuclear bombs. I would also like to point out that in Germany it seems that a top general of the German army has provided hand and span services for Lockheed Martin and has not been objectively engaged. He had to quit. In Belgium, it was possible that the Deputy Head of Office of the Minister of Defence, Simon Put, switched from the Minister of Defence's cabinet to Lockheed Martin, without any further action whatsoever.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1036x.u7	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1036x.u8	That has everything to do with that file.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1036x.u9	Minister, I would like to ask you about the tribute that will be organized in memory of the Belgian soldiers killed in Rwanda. On 7 April, it will indeed be twenty-five years to the day that ten Belgian peacekeepers lost their lives in carrying out their mission in Rwanda. Minister, can you tell me what is planned to pay tribute to the ten Belgian paras killed in Rwanda? Is there a clear idea of the conduct of any ceremonies that may take place? If so, can you say more?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1036x.u10	Mr. Corthouts, as every year, the ceremony will take place on April 7 at the monument of the Unknown Soldier to honour all soldiers who have fallen in fulfilment of their duty since the Second World War. Our dead peacekeepers will therefore be honoured on this day, which will remind us of the tragic events that have taken place in Rwanda. In addition, we are exploring the possibility of going to Rwanda that day to pay tribute to our deaths on the spot. Families would be associated with this displacement. We are also studying the possibility of a presence of young Belgians in order to fulfil our duty of remembrance towards young people. In addition, activities will be planned for the second commandos battalion to honour their comrades.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1036x.u11	Minister, thank you. I am glad that all this is done in the standards.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1036x.u12	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you about the organization of Operation Tropical Storm. Every two years, 800 to 900 Belgian military personnel conduct training in Gabon. The objective of this important exercise is to maintain the capacity to operate under tropical conditions. These trainings are also followed by some Gabonese soldiers. The last such operation took place in 2017 and should therefore be organised this year. However, the situation in Gabon has been relatively worrying in recent weeks, following the attempted coup d'état aborted on 7 January. Minister, is the organization of this exercise still on the agenda? Are any alternatives considered by your department in this context in order to preserve such an exercise essential to our military?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1036x.u13	Mr President, Mr Corthuts, Defence is organising every two years a major exercise under tropical conditions in order to develop and maintain its operational capabilities. In 2019, Tropical Storm will be held again in Gabon. From the point of view of military techniques and tactics, Gabon meets all the conditions required for this type of training. Moreover, the presence on Gabonese territory of some of our privileged military partners, notably France and the United States, facilitates multinational cooperation and considerably reduces the costs associated with this exercise. At this point, an alternative is not being considered for 2019, but I have requested that other options be explored for the future. The situation in Gabon is, of course, constantly monitored by our specialized services. Currently, there is no significant element that would put the execution of Tropical Storm 2019 at risk.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1036x.u14	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1036x.u15	Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, on the occasion of debates held last January in the Parliament of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation, Minister Flahaut confirmed the government's willingness to acquire the buildings of the National Geographical Institute (IGN) located at the Abbey of the Cambre, currently owned by the Defence. He indicated that he had instructed his services to investigate the possibility of an amicable expropriation. Deputy Prime Minister, I would like to take stock of this important issue. In this context, could you provide us with an overview of the discussions on the procurement process? At this point, does the route of expropriation seem to you the most appropriate? Do you possibly have a forward-looking agenda for the possible sale of these buildings? Finally, are consultations also planned with the local authorities of Ixelles and Brussels City, on which this remarkable site is located?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1036x.u16	Mr Calomne, as you know, the National Geographical Institute currently occupies part of the buildings of the Cambre site. It is still expected that the IGN will move to the Royal Military School site in the course of 2019. The Wallonia-Brussels Federation confirmed to us, at the end of December 2018, its wish to acquire the immovable property, which is the property of the State, on the site of the Cambre by a procedure of expropriation for reasons of public utility. Once the decommissioning file has been established by the Defence, the site will be transferred to the Federal Acquisition Committee and may therefore be expropriated. In the meantime, information has been exchanged between the Defence, the Federal Acquisition Committee and the Wallonia-Brussels Federation on the procedure to be followed, the initiatives to be taken and the amount of the transaction. This will obviously be an important element to consider. Finally, of course, I have no difficulty in considering also consultation with the local authorities of Ixelles and Brussels City on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1036x.u17	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for this reassuring response. Just a few months ago, some colleagues in this assembly pointed to difficulties with the future of this site. The route now privileged and which could be taken with an expansion of the facilities of the Wallonia-Brussels Federation on the site of the Cambre could indeed be a solution, a positive and reassuring path for the residents and municipalities concerned.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1036x.u18	Question No 28690 by Mrs Fernandez Fernandez is transformed into a written question.
