ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we begin our work, because I see that a number of the questioners are already present. The minister can stay until 1:00. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mrs Fonck's 26713, 27157 and 27159 have been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u2	Madam President, Minister, a few months ago, patients and ophthalmologists were concerned about the end of the reimbursement of certain eye drops, which were used in particular to treat intraocular pressure and glaucoma. At that time, there was reference to the end of the repayment of the Cosopt, one of the original specialties used in this treatment. Today, it is up to us that TensocMylan, the generic, will also not be refunded in the future. Minister, could you provide an update on the policy for the reimbursement of eye drops in the treatment of intraocular pressure and glaucoma? In concrete terms, what eye drops will they no longer be reimbursed in the future in this context and for what reasons? It appears that other alternatives exist in this treatment but, according to some ophthalmologists, excipients and other adjuvants present in these alternatives are often problematic for patients, especially because of allergies. Has there been any consultation within this framework?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u3	Madam President, dear colleague, the pharmaceutical specialty Cosopt Ocumeter Plus has not been reimbursed since June 1, 2018. Indeed, in order to increase the accessibility of treatment for patients, it was decided that it was no longer necessary to obtain prior authorisation from the mutual medical practitioner for medicinal products containing the active ingredients timolol and dorzolamide. In parallel with this improved accessibility, a reduction in prices was requested for these proprietary medicinal products. However, the firm marketing the Cosopt decided not to apply this price decrease. Since several generic medicines containing exactly the same active ingredients and having the same form of administration are reimbursable and available on the Belgian market, it was decided to remove the Cosopt Ocumeter Plus from the reimbursement - the cost was higher for patients. The alternatives available are: Eurogenerics Dorsdolamid/ Timolol (three dropper vials), Dualkopter (one bottle with a dosing pump and 10 ml of eye drops). There are also Mylan TensocMylan (three drop bottles). That is the case with regard to the three possible alternatives. As regards the possible deletion of the list of reimbursable medicinal products from TensocMylan, no procedure is currently under way. Preservatives are present in many ophthalmic medicines, which, as with all excipients and active ingredients, can cause allergic reactions. This is especially the case with benzalkonium chloride and parabens that can damage the stability of the lacrymal film. In patients with problems with lacrymal film or allergic conjunctivitis, it is therefore preferable to use products that do not contain preservatives. There is a combination containing the same active substance as Cosopt but without a preservative. It's the Dualkopt. In contrast, Cosopt contains a preservative, benzalkonium chloride. "unit dose" presentations can be an alternative. For example, Cosopt Unit Dose may be considered. This specialty has not been affected by the measure which has led to the dementing of the specialty Cosopt Ocumeter Plus and is therefore still on the list of reimbursable proprietary medicinal products, but it must be the subject of a reimbursement authorization from the doctor consulting the mutual, as before. In summary, there are three alternatives and the possibility of taking the Cosopt Unit Dose, but this is subject to authorisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u4	Minister, thank you for the clarity of your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u5	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 27289 and 27317 by Mrs Catherine Fonck are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u6	Madam President, Minister, the most effective and cost-effective way to treat a disease is to prevent it from spreading. In the case of hepatitis C, the vectors of infection, situations, behaviours and populations at risk are well known. In the absence of a vaccine, a high level of information of the population, constantly maintained, would likely help to contain or even reduce the spread of this serious disease to expensive treatments. Minister, can you tell us what has been done or what could be done in collaboration with the Communities and the Regions to inform and educate our fellow citizens about the danger of hepatitis C and the precautions to be taken? I take this opportunity to commend all the work you have done on hepatitis C. You are the first minister to make such important decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u7	Madam President, Mr Piedboeuf, public awareness in the context of prevention of an infectious disease such as hepatitis C falls entirely within the competence of the federated entities as a result of successive reforms of the state. Let me remind you that Article 5 of the Special Act of 8 August 1980 on institutional reforms clearly states that the Communities are responsible for health education, preventive medicine activities and services and any preventive medicine initiatives. Therefore, I cannot speak about measures to inform and educate our citizens about the dangers of hepatitis C and the precautions to be taken. Nevertheless, it is true that associations are asking for more prevention and awareness now that drugs are being reimbursed for all people affected by the infection. They have made prevention the main topic of their meetings.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u8	Madam Minister, thank you. Of course, regionalisation has gone through this. We observe the same kind of reflection on climate or international relations. It is true that these are no longer federal powers, but it is your responsibility to organize budgets to pay salaries. A stimulation of regional and Community powers would also be a good thing. I understand very well that prevention is a priority, and it would be interesting to recall it from time to time at joint meetings.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u9	Madam President, thank you. Minister, on a regular basis, the patient associations you have just mentioned and the hepatologists are talking to us for information on how the government is addressing and addressing the problem of hepatitis C. At a meeting of the COCOM Health Committee in July, Minister Gosuin referred to the existence of a Prevention Working Group, a Technical Working Group and a Hepatitis C Elimination Committee within the Interdepartmental Public Health Conference. Can you tell us, Madam Minister, whether these bodies were created on your initiative and what the composition and mission of each of them is? We go back to the same subject, but since they say it exists, I want to know if it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u10	Thank you. Yes, of course, a Memorandum of Understanding on Prevention has already been approved and signed by the federated entities and the federal authority at the Interdepartmental Conference on March 21, 2016. It can be found on the FPS Public Health website. This Memorandum of Understanding proposes a framework for the harmonization of prevention policies between the federal and the Community authorities. Hepatitis C is one of the themes of this protocol. The Inter-Cabinet Working Group on Chronic Diseases/Prevention of the Inter-Ministerial Conference on Public Health is responsible for monitoring this protocol and implementing the initiatives it provides for. It is composed of members of the cabinets and administrations of the federal authority and the federated entities. In order to implement this prevention protocol, technical working groups have been set up to examine the technical arrangements for the implementation of the protocol. These working groups are composed in the same way. There is no National Focal Point for Hepatitis C in Belgium, but a proposal to this effect is being developed within this technical working group. It will deal with the enumeration of prevention guidelines, the reporting of epidemiological data to international bodies such as WHO and others. This proposal, which is expected to have a neutral budgetary impact, will be discussed in an inter-cabinet working group on Chronic Diseases/Prevention. The discussions of these working groups noted that the problem lies mainly in the availability of good quality epidemiological surveillance. In principle, this task is part of Sciensano's core missions. However, in the context of the reimbursement of innovative hepatitis C medicines and the removal of fibrosis criteria for access to treatment, agreements have been reached to improve the current registration. For example, each physician commits to completing a follow-up record of patients treated with a virus-absence measure 12 weeks after the end of treatment and after one year. This will help us avoid new and ongoing infections. We're already doing this for HIV with PrEP medication. The aim is to avoid new infections while treating patients who already have one. I think with this system, we're going to make it. In any case, the organization of this Focal Point will require a little work. I think, however, that will be a good step forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u11	Thank you, Madam Minister. Your answer to the second question completes the answer to the first, since I see that we are working in the right direction. So I'm going to ask my third and final question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u12	Minister, there is no systematic hepatitis C screening campaign despite the severity of this disease. It is therefore only possible to estimate the number of people infected. According to the HCV plan, hepatologists and patient associations, there are 70,000 of them in Belgium. In the absence of known epidemiological data, it is impossible to set targets and indicators for reducing or even eradicating the disease. However, precise data appear to exist. Indeed, on 4 July last, in the COCOM Health Committee, Minister Gosuin replied to parliamentarians that "the number of newly diagnosed HCV cases has been stable since 2008" and that "an average of 1,500 registered cases for 2016 has been released". Minister, can you confirm these figures? Can you detail them between the different stages of the disease, from F0 to F4? Is there a hepatitis C registry established by the Institute of Public Health? If so, can you tell us what data in this register are available to hepatologists, who all complain of lack of quantitative information on the actual extent of the disease? Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u13	Madam Chair, sir, in its reports following applications for reimbursement of proprietary medicinal products used in the treatment of hepatitis C, the Drug Reimbursement Commission often mentions Professor Starkel's study of Saint-Luc's university clinics with respect to the epidemiology part. I'll give you the references. It actually estimates the number of infected persons at around 70,000 in Belgium at the time of the study (2014). There is indeed a register of hepatitis C established by Sciensano, which is the fusion between CERVA and ISP. In order to obtain reimbursement for a medicinal speciality used in the treatment of hepatitis C, the physician responsible for treatment undertakes to participate in the recording of the follow-up data of the patient treated with antiviral medicinal products. The registry therefore provides information on the number of patients treated for hepatitis C, but not the number of newly diagnosed patients. On January 1, 2019, the conditions for reimbursement of antiviral drugs against the hepatitis C virus eased. As of that date, more patients will be eligible for reimbursement as soon as they are affected. This will obviously also improve our figures. These are hepatitis C virus antivirals, which are reimbursed by health care insurance. The aim is to enable more patients to benefit from hepatitis C treatment, a benefit both for patients and for public health in general. This decision is based on recommendations from scientific associations and clinical studies. You know that we started with the treatment of the most acute diseases. Since 1 January, patients with lower liver damage have been considered. The drugs in question will therefore be reimbursed to all patients with hepatitis C, even if the disease is still at an early stage. It will also give us much more information. As soon as the disease is detected in liver tests, it will be recorded. This will give us a better view, especially to determine which risk groups need to do more prevention. There are risk factors. Risk groups are known. They are mentioned in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u14	Madam Minister, thank you. I realize that an intelligent policy is being pursued which is being built and which will produce more and more effects and, perhaps one day, make this disease disappear, which is so disabling and costly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u15	Minister, according to a recent survey by the German BfR Risk Assessment Institute, it would appear that only 32% of chemicals manufactured or imported into Europe would comply with registration rules to protect health. For example, potentially carcinogenic, mutagenic, neurotoxic, bioaccumulative or endocrine disruptors would be placed on the market due to inadequate controls. If this is proven, you will agree that this is a real public health problem as there are 68% of these substances for which the safety of molecules cannot be certified. Madam Minister, I have no doubt that you have been able to read about this investigation. I would have liked to know your views on this. How do you explain such a deficiency in controls? Do you intend to argue at European level so that companies that do not comply with the REACH Regulation can finally be subject to sanctions? How do you finally explain that the German Institute for Risk Assessment is the only one that has identified the deficiencies of the system? Do the experts in Sciensano have or are they considering addressing the issue? In advance, I thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u16	Mr Senesael, let me first point out that according to the European Regulation and the case law of the European Court of Justice, only the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA) is competent to carry out the conformity check of registrations. The Commission shall communicate its conclusions to the Member States. The BfR (Bundesinstitut für Risikobewertung) is not the only one who has identified the shortcomings you mention. By 2016, ECHA had identified deficiencies in the registration files. The European Commission has also taken up this issue in the framework of its REACH review communication and has defined an action to be taken in this area. However, I would like to point out that the BfR itself has pointed out that a non-compliant dossier does not necessarily mean that the use of the substance poses risks to health or the environment. In any event, the registration file is the basis for the risk management measures included in REACH, since it is the key element for undertaking the various tasks assigned to the competent authorities by the Regulation. The improvement of registration records and their updating are among their priorities, with a view to speeding up the assessment process and the development of records containing the correct safety data and risk management measures, including the protection of workers. In Belgium, the various authorities concerned by the REACH Regulation have adopted, in their respective legislations, penalties for infringements of the REACH Regulation. With regard to the Federal Republic of Germany, which is concerned with the "Public Health, Environment and Protection of Workers" component, these penalties are included in Article 17 of the Law of 21 December 1998 on product standards. Finally, Sciensano is not directly involved in the implementation of the REACH regulation in Belgium. Some of its toxicologists are nevertheless members of the Scientific Committee established under the federal and regional cooperation agreement. They are in contact and are kept informed but they are not really involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u17	Minister, thank you for this clear, precise and structured answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u18	Madam President, Minister, according to a study recently published by various European environmental associations, which tested 430 recycled plastic products of current consumption in Europe such as toys, hair accessories and other kitchen utensils, 25% contained substances considered to be endocrine disruptors. And Belgium is concerned. Indeed, among the objects purchased in our country and tested in the course of this study, all the samples contained substances included in the lists of the Stockholm Convention aimed at banning certain polluting products. Again, this is a real public health problem for which urgent action is needed in view of the harmful effects of endocrine disruptors, which we have already mentioned here on several occasions. Minister, I have no doubt that you were able to read the study. What is your view on this? You will agree with me that these results illustrate the need to review the standards applied to recycled plastic products, which, according to experts, are much more lax than those applied to new products. Is there any consultation with your colleagues in charge of the Environment and Consumers? What actions are envisaged in order to act effectively in this regard? Do you intend to plead at European level in order to revise the standards upwards?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u19	Madam President, Mr Senesael, as you know, this matter is also the responsibility of my colleagues, the Minister of the Environment and the Minister of Economy and Consumers, whom I have associated with this answer. The competent departments were aware of the study, which showed that 46% of plastic articles were contaminated with octaBDE or by its commercial mixture. "Contamination" means the exceedance of a concentration threshold arbitrarily set at 10 parts per million, i.e. 0.001 %. This is little, but the mixture of octaBDE is actually composed of different congeners, the main ones being hepta-, octa-, hexa- and nonaBDE – I will give you these acronyms. However, two congeners were identified as persistent organic pollutants (POPs) listed in the Stockholm Convention in 2009, as well as in the European POPs Regulation. The Annex to that Regulation limits the concentration to 10 shares per million (ppm). The administration contacted one of the associations responsible for this study to obtain information on the presence of hexaBDE and heptaBDE in the articles tested in Belgium. It confirmed that neither of them had a concentration greater than 10 ppm for the sum of the two regulated congeners. The European standard for persistent organic pollutants has therefore not been exceeded. This does not mean, however, that nothing should change. More fundamentally, this study highlights the presence of brominated flame retardants in articles that are not supposed to contain brominated flame retardants. This is probably the result of the use – for manufacturing – of polymers from the recycling of electrical and electronic waste. The POPs Regulation permits the production, placing on the market and use of mixtures and articles containing up to 1000 ppm, i.e. 0,1 % of hexa-, hepta-, penta- and tetraBDE, when they are partially or wholly produced from recycled or prepared materials for new use. The concentration of these substances in new articles is, on the other hand, limited to 10 ppm. This exemption is based on the provisions of the 2009 Stockholm Convention and will not apply beyond 2030. With regard to decaBDE, no international exemption has been granted for the recycling of articles containing or contaminated with decaBDE. Environmental and consumer experts are following this subject very closely in the context of the recasting of the European Regulation on Persistent Organic Pollutants. One of the objectives is to include decaBDE as an annex to the Regulation. The Stockholm Convention provides for a revision of the exemption for the recycling of articles containing hexa-, hepta-, penta- and tetraBDE in 2020-2021, i.e. in two years' time. The European Union may, however, terminate the use of this exemption at any time if a decision is taken to that effect. In addition, a revision of these standards is possible in the context of the recasting of the POP Regulation. This revision should take place on the basis of the Commission's current study on waste contaminated with certain POPs, including brominated flame retardants. It should be clarified that recycling of POPs is prohibited by Article 7.3, beyond the limits set out in Annex 4 to the Regulation. Wastes shall be treated in such a way that their POP content is destroyed or irreversibly processed in accordance with Article 7.2. On the other hand, recycling of waste containing concentrations of POPs below the limits set out in Annex 4 is not prohibited. The preliminary results of this study were presented to the experts from the Member States on 26 October last year. It is recommended that the limit set out in Annex 4 for all POPs-BDEs be reduced from 1000 ppm for the sum of hexa-, hepta-, penta- and tetraBDE to 500 for the sum of hexa-, hepta- penta, tetra- and decaBDE. All this information is very technical. But the study nevertheless helped to bring about changes in the current fiscal year. That said, like you, I think things are moving very slowly at European level. It takes years to change acceptable dose standards. Indeed, we have been waiting since 2009 and we are in 2019. This study was carried out in 2018, but ultimately the standards of 2009 still need to be changed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u20	Minister, thank you for the comprehensiveness of your answer. As you say, this is a response that is partly technical, but I will still retain two elements that seem essential to me and abound in your sense. First of all, you said that European standards were not exceeded, which is positive. However, the fact that these standards are not exceeded does not mean that they should not attract our attention and vigilance. As I said at the beginning of my question, the issue of endocrine disruptors has already been the subject of many discussions in this committee and is a cause for concern for some of our fellow citizens. I think that we really need to devote all the interest that it deserves to this aspect, and that is what you are doing. Of course, as you pointed out, the delays you have expressed do not guarantee full security for our citizens. However, I note with great positivism that the preliminary results of the current study, which was presented on 26 October, call for a halving of these standards from 100 to 50. This is therefore an interesting step in favour of insurance for citizens. The second element that I would like to stress is that the Stockholm Convention is also considering making a significant improvement in this area by 2021. In conclusion, I can only invite you to commit yourself at European level to being a leader so that this matter is given special attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u21	Mr Senesael, I see that you have two questions and both have the same title. Only the number changes. Is this the same question?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u22	Madam President, I do have two questions. Since the first question was not put immediately, I tabled a second question in October, which is an update of my first question. I shall therefore put the second question on the agenda because it summarizes the two questions. Minister, the moratorium you imposed on medical homes was lifted several months ago following the presentation of the audit report on the operation and cost structure of medical homes. This report, according to the press, finally convinced you of the importance of medical homes in the general offer of health care, which we have constantly put forward, specifically for the most fragile patients. As a result of this audit, a working group was established to make various recommendations to improve the operation and financing of medical homes over and over again. Minister, issues to be improved or clarified include the current regulatory framework, appropriate funding, transparency and quality. Has the established working group already issued a report? Can we dispose of it? What follow-up do you intend to do? Since the end of the moratorium, how many medical homes have introduced a file and what follow-up has been reserved for them? How many new applications have been submitted to INAMI and still need to be forwarded to insurers for review? Finally, the Packages Commission has not met since January 2018. Can you inform me of the reasons for this situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u23	Madam Chair, Minister, in the spring of 2018, you set up a working group composed of representatives of medical homes, insurers, physicians and members of the Insurance Committee who represent dental practitioners, physiotherapists and nursing practitioners. This working group was set up after you imposed, at the end of 2016, a moratorium on the approval of new medical homes and commissioned an audit to assess the operation and cost structure of medical homes. As a result of this audit, you commissioned the working group to develop proposals to improve the first flat-rate care line. These proposals should cover the regulatory framework, funding, transparency and quality control of medical homes. Minister, you have still not responded to the fact that the audit showed that your starting point was wrong. You ordered the audit mainly because you estimated that the budgets of medical homes had increased too much (by 10% in recent years) while the audit clearly shows that this increase is only the logical consequence of the fact that more and more people enrol in a medical home for the package. Can you confirm this conclusion? You have received the final report from the working group and you have already discussed it with its chairman. What are the reforms proposed for the various points? How do you respond to these proposals? What follow-up will be given to them and within what time frame? On the basis of the audit, you yourself have already indicated that you are convinced "of the importance of medical homes in the general health care offer". However, when my colleague, Senesael, spoke about it, I saw an increase in the shoulder. Several scientific studies, such as those of KCE and INAMI, had already demonstrated the added value of the medical homes applying the package. What initiatives will you then take to further develop lump-sum medicine in Belgium, knowing that it offers quality health care, free of charge for patients and not more expensive for social security? If there is one sector for which one can speak of lack of transparency, it is that of the remuneration of specialists. As you have done for medical homes, are you going to order an audit in this sector in order to check to what extent public funds are spent, here too, optimally?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u24	First of all, I think you did not see the audit, because the conclusions are not the ones that have been defined. I asked for an audit because there were many differences between the funding of some centres and that of the other centres, even though they knew a fairly large population. Questions were asked about funding, but also about transparency. Measures have been taken with regard to some centres. On the other hand, there was not always adequate legislation in this area. For example, who should send in the second line? What in the event of a move? Were the persons concerned still registered? Many questions on the ground had remained unanswered, which is why I requested an audit. I am pleased that this audit has taken place, as it has identified several aspects of continuity of care. Some centres were really not accessible enough, especially during lunchtime. Many differences were observed, each doing a bit of what he wanted. I find that, for the patient, accessibility and transparency of costs are essential. With the establishment of new centres each year, we wanted to define a clear financial and legislative framework, a transparent framework that would prevent some centres from being fully accessible to the patient. At the meeting of the Packages Commission on 18 December 2018, a draft royal decree was discussed. This project aims to implement a number of proposals made by the Insurance Committee working group, which was activated early in 2018. These proposals were prepared in consultation between the chair of the working group (Ms Maaike Van Overloop, who is a general practitioner and is also active in Domus Medica), my strategic unit and the management of the National Institute of Sickness and Disability Insurance (INAMI). The proposals concern the calculation of lump sums, transparency and the maintenance of the quality of medical homes. The audit was carried out as a result of the increasing number of medical homes in previous years and patients in the area of lump-sum care, resulting in an increase in the financial resources spent for this purpose. These trends already justify special attention being paid to the management of health care insurance. As you know, medical homes have been installed as pilot projects and for more than ten years nothing has been changed. For 15 years, the situation remained the same. Personally, I believe that when a fairly large budget is earmarked for an area that is still expanding, it deserves to be examined for the transparency of the public resources allocated. You also pay for these means. Audits are useful. Since the end of the moratorium, fifteen new medical homes have been approved in the flat-rate system with the date of entry into force from 1 January 2018 to 1 December 2018. In addition to the current proposals already mentioned, we are also working on a more fundamental transformation of this concept, in particular with a view to responding properly to the need for care in the most qualitative way. As far as doctors-specialists are concerned, I would like to draw attention to the existence of the Medical Evaluation and Control Service of the RIZIV. The results of their annual programmes, their share in the implementation of the plan enforcement and their additional research initiatives shall be reported regularly to their stakeholders within and outside the RIZIV, who may conduct policies in their field. Moreover, this way of working can be applied to all categories of caregivers, and we do so in the plan of enforcement. So not only the specialists, but also the home care, the physicists, everyone is involved. If there are excesses, we can act through the Monitoring and Evaluation Committee. Sanctions or guardianship are then possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u25	Minister, thank you for your answers. I will retain two elements at first. For our group, the audit was never called into question for its start-up. We can be pleased because 15 medical homes were implemented in 2018, proof that they meet specific needs. Finally, with regard to the sanctions you were talking about, I will ask you a written question in order to know under what conditions they can be implemented and by whom. I assume it's based on the reports that are sent to you, since you're talking about a working group set up with your strategic cell and INAMI. Is it the same working group that decides on sanctions?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u26	It is the Dienst voor geneeskundige evaluatie en contrôle that can sanction after examination of the file and summons of the persons concerned. For example, this service can then claim reimbursement for unpaid benefits.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u27	I agree, but I guess medical homes can be justified.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u28	Of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u29	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u30	Minister, your answer is rather strange. You tell us that discussions are taking place on the royal decree and on the calculation of the financing of medical homes, but they were already under way. That really did not justify a moratorium. Good if there's an audit.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u31	You didn't have to do an audit.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u32	In any case, why should a moratorium be required prior to the audit? Why not have the audit carried out and then draw conclusions? In my view, this moratorium represents an ideological attack on medical homes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u33	It's called good management of public funds. I always say that I can spend my own money on what I want, but I have to make sure that every euro of the state is well spent. When it comes to such a large budget, it is indeed useful. After all, it has shown us that the funds were not always well spent, but there were also maisons médicales where things were going well. We must then create a legal framework. We cannot let these pilot projects go in all directions, because we must be sure that the patients who are registered there get the best quality of care and continuity of care, because they are punished if they have to go to another doctor afterwards. You have to understand that. It is about public resources, we cannot just let everything grow and flourish without looking back at it. That's not good governance.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u34	Mr Van Hees, the last word is for a brief reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u35	Minister, you're exaggerating. It's double standards. I am for good governance, as you claim to be. However, what you're doing is not good governance, it's a targeted attack on medical homes. You say that they represent an important budget, but when you see the budget you are spending – I am not going to go back to this debate – giving subsidies to the multinationals of the medicine or to the specialists, it is aberrant. You claim that a check is made on these specialists. But there's also a check on medical homes. Why don't you run an audit of the specialists as I asked you in my question? This is indeed an important budget and the abuses appear to be obvious. Maybe in the medical homes, there are a few bad students. I think there are many of them everywhere, but what is essential in this case, as various studies have shown, is that it is a model of higher quality care than medicine in practice. It bothers you to hear that, but that's how it is. I conclude because I think we will not be able to agree today. It's an ideological attack on medical homes. Rather than making a moratorium, you should strengthen these medical homes because of the quality of care they provide and the lack of additional social security costs.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u36	No, I don't accept this. You can be ideologically biased as much as you like, but I do not accept that there is a superior quality of care there compared to those who work à l'acte. That hasn't been proven anywhere. Through the InterMutualist Agency, an attempt has been made to state that we are saving in the rest homes and in specialist medicine. If we ask for their registration, of the number of people referred to, of the number of people who ended up in a short stay or in a care centre, it does not appear to be registered anywhere. What's that based on? Well, we'll have it registered now and then we'll know. Measuring is knowing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u37	Mr Van Hees, I would like a very brief reply in view of the large number of questions we still have to deal with.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u38	The minister points out the essentials by contesting the fact that the quality of medical homes is superior. It calls into question the findings of this study by the Intermutualist Agency.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u39	Actually, there's a clock here and actually the deal is that I have to block everyone off after two minutes and after a minute for a reply. I didn't do that, but we're gonna stop the discussion right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u40	The Members have the last word, Madam President!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u41	I gave you the last word, but...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u42	No, I haven't answered yet!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u43	All right, round it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u44	The Minister has a study by the Intermutualist Agency. He does not like the conclusions. It therefore asked KPMG, a multinational company, to carry out another study. And that still doesn't suit him! There may still be a new study, a new moratorium until the conclusions finally agree to you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u45	I believe that everything has been said about this now.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u46	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mrs Van Camp's 27399, 27400, 27401, 27403, 27404 and 27406 were postponed. This also applies to Question No 1, by Mr De Gucht, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mrs Van Camp's 27499, 27500, 27501, 27502 and 27503 were postponed. The same applies to questions. 27511 and 27521 by Mrs Fonck. Question No 24, by Mr De Gucht (H-l Question No 275, by Mrs Van Camp 27641 and 27685 by Mrs Fonck. Debates of the European Parliament 27836 by Mrs Van Camp was also postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jiroflée's 27854 was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 27857 question will be converted into a written question. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mr Blanchart's 27863 and 28302 were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u47	Minister, although they may be harmless to a pregnant woman, certain medications as common as anti-inflammatory drugs can be harmful to the fetus. According to a recently published study of Free Mutualities, eight out of ten women use prescribed and reimbursed drugs during pregnancy. According to another study carried out by the Socialist Mutualities, this would be in 7% of the cases of medicines potentially dangerous to the foetus or likely to cause abnormalities in its development. While in March of last year I was asking you about the effects of Valproate on the fetuses and more generally on teratogenic drugs, you indicated to me that in March 2016 you set up a working group within AFMPS to consider the possibility of a visual warning on the packaging of medicines causing physical defects on the fetus. This working group, in its conclusions, recommended the affixing of pictograms on the packaging of these medicinal products. However, you indicated that the AFMPS did not support these recommendations. You also stated that an independent study should be commissioned to assess the effectiveness of these measures, as well as to set up an information service on teratology. You also announced that regular and repeated information campaigns would be organized to inform patients, especially women of reproductive age and pregnant women, about the risks of taking medication during pregnancy and the need to always consult their doctor or pharmacist. Similarly, awareness-raising campaigns for doctors and health-care workers would be organized. Madam Minister, despite your good intentions, the problem of the use of teratogenic drugs by pregnant women remains a problem. I assume you've learned about these studies? What is your view on this? Have the measures that you told me you wanted to take when I questioned you in March 2017 been implemented? Has the independent study to assess the effectiveness of these measures been conducted? If so, what positive results could be achieved? What about the establishment of this Teratology Information Service? Finally, to help women find themselves there, the solution of putting a pictogram of pregnant women on the boxes of dangerous medicines, as is the case in France, seems quite obvious, since it is a simple and effective way to warn future mothers. Would you be inclined to plead with pharmaceutical companies for such a logo? If not, could you repeat the reasons?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u48	Mr Senesael, we have obviously seen the results of these studies which show a significant exposure of pregnancies to medicines in Belgium, and these are consistent with the observations made in our neighbouring countries. However, these results should be put into perspective because the case of each patient is specific and it is not always possible to avoid the administration of a medicinal product during pregnancy. In some cases, such as epilepsy, the risks to the foetus associated with the absence of the mother's treatment are also - sometimes more important - than those associated with the treatment itself. It is up to the treating physician to weigh the potential benefits and risks to the patient and her child individually. I committed myself in 2017 to several actions. The information campaign launched in December 2017 recommends the correct and prudent use of medication during pregnancy, the need to plan pregnancies for patients taking chronic treatments, and encourages dialogue with the doctor, pharmacist or midwife before taking any medication during pregnancy and breast-feeding. To date, more than 34,000 copies have been distributed. The campaign's website has been visited almost 1,100 times and a link to the campaign's website is permanently available on the AFMPS website. The second commitment was to raise awareness among caregivers of a more rational prescription of valproate among girls and women of childbearing age. As such, a communication to health professionals is planned as part of the follow-up to the European Valproate-based Arbitration Procedure, which was closed in 2018. This communication will inform health professionals in February 2019 of new indications restrictions for valproate-based specialties. In addition, a fact sheet, consent form and recall card were also updated to alert patients taking valproate to the teratogenic risks of the product. The third measure concerned the affixing of a visual warning recalling the teratogenic risk, with a pictogram and text on the packaging of all valproate-based specialties. This visual warning is present on the packaging of all batches of valproate-based medicines produced after April 2018. With regard to a study to assess the effectiveness of measures limiting the use of teratogenic drugs, the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products (AFMPS) conducted a study in 2018 with a sample of women of childbearing age. Participants had received a valproate-based drug in the previous year and were asked about their knowledge or ignorance of teratogenic risks and sources of information, including pictograms on the box and the educational material that had been planned. The results of the survey will be made public in the first quarter of 2019. The addition of a pictogram on the packaging of all teratogenic drugs is part of the patient information measures, but raises a number of questions. Which medicines should be selected as justification for a pictogram? Is there a risk of misinterpretation by the patient, for example, that the drug may be discontinued without consultation with the doctor or pharmacist? Can the absence of a pictogram provide a false sense of safety in the patient? In addition, the role of the attending physician is paramount with regard to the proper support of the patients concerned. A concerted approach at European level seems essential to me. How could a patient understand that a drug has a pictogram in some European countries and not in others? Already in 2017, I took an initiative in this direction with my European colleagues, but no consensus could be reached. With regard to the establishment of the Teratology Information Service, I would like to highlight the information on teratogenic risks that are already available to patients and health professionals through the package leaflets and summaries of product characteristics. For certain drugs such as retinoids, specific educational material to minimize risks has also been developed. These are the measures we have already taken. I would like to make it clear that it is not easy to reach a consensus at European level.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u49	Minister, thank you for your response, which recalled several actions taken since March 2017. We can therefore congratulate you on that. However, we can regret two small aspects. First, we note that the entry into force of your proposals is characterized by some slowness. Indeed, the communication on measures taken since March 2017 is only planned for this quarter. Secondly, I share your view on the concerted approach. At the European level, we deplore the lack of evidence of the need for good coordination in this regard. In any case, I see that we are moving in the right direction, and that is so much better.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u50	Thank you Madam President, Minister, the World Health Organization (WHO) has recently warned against the dangerous rise in antibiotic use in some countries, but also of under-consumption in other regions, which lead to the emergence of deadly "superbacteria". Thus, the WHO report, based on 2015 data collected in 65 countries and regions, shows a significant difference in consumption, ranging from 4 defined daily doses (DDJ) per 1,000 inhabitants per day in Burundi to over 64 in Mongolia. This is a real public health problem since over-consumption and under-consumption of antibiotics are major causes of antimicrobial resistance. In fact, bacteria can become resistant when patients use antibiotics they do not need or do not complete their treatment, giving the bacteria a chance to survive and develop immunity. According to experts, we risk eventually losing our ability to treat widespread infections such as pneumonia (which I just suffered a few weeks ago). Madam Minister, I assume you have read this report. What is your view on this? In Europe, it appears that the average consumption of antibiotics is approaching 18 DDJ per 1,000 inhabitants per day. Do you have any figures for Belgium? Faced with the problem of ultra-resistant bacteria, the UN specialized agency has asked states and major pharmaceutical groups to create a new generation of drugs capable of fighting them. Can you tell us where our country is in the process of creating these new drugs?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u51	Madam President, Mr Senesael, we have indeed taken note of the WHO report on the figures for 2015. However, more recent European data are available through the European Antimicrobial Resistance Surveillance Report, published on 15 November 2018 by the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. Combating antimicrobial resistance is one of my priorities. A national One Health Action Plan against Antimicrobial Resistance is being developed and an inter-cabinet working group has been set up within the ICD (Interministerial Conference) Public Health. The One Health approach recognizes that people's health is linked to animal health, food chain safety and the environment in general and therefore encourages collaborative efforts between these different areas. At the time, he was introduced with Minister Bossu. Now we're working with Mr. Ducrame. It should also be noted that several activities and initiatives to combat antimicrobial resistance have been organized in Belgium for decades. The Belgian Commission for the Coordination of Antibiotic Policy BAPCOC has launched several campaigns for the prevention and proper use of antibiotics and has published various recommendations. As far as the animal sector is concerned, the Centre of Expertise on Antimicrobial Resistance and Consumption of Antimicrobials in Animals in Belgium (AMCRA) developed in 2014 the 2020 AMCRA plan, setting out three objectives for reducing the consumption of antibiotics for all animals. In 2016, these objectives were included in the Antibiotics Convention in Veterinary Medicine. As far as our country is concerned, the authorities are creating an environment conducive to research and development, also in the field of infectious diseases. Belgium is also involved in several European projects funded by DG Research and Innovation. Finally, it is important to note that the development of new antibiotics is only one solution among other measures against antimicrobial resistance. The prudent use of the means currently available is also extremely important. I make available to you the figures of the consumption of antibiotics per day and per 1000 people. It is a table that shows the number of determined daily doses (daily defined doses) per day and per 1000 people. You will see that the figures are different. They are based on those of the Pharmanet data bank which contains the outpatient data reimbursed under insurance, excluding hospital consumption data. Please note that the WHO has just changed the calculations of the defined daily doses (DDD), on November 27, 2018. Consumption data are reported to the insured population. It is noted that the use of antibiotics has already decreased significantly in hospitals, which are being controlled. However, first-line prescription consumption is more difficult to control. Some signs are already observed, but it is difficult to obtain results. The doctor claims that the patients ask him for antibiotics, while the patients say that the doctors prescribe them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u52	I thank the minister for the quality of her response.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u53	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Ben Hamou's 27882, 27883 and 27884 were postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fonck's 27887 was also postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u54	Madam Minister, this question has been there for a long time. Due to a number of specific conditions that can only be met by women, a number of breast cancer treatments in men are not reimbursed. There are some avenues, such as the Special Solidarity Fund of the RIZIV, but there is a long way to go for this, which means that the reimbursement will also start later. If only scientifically proven effects are reimbursed, women are also favoured, because they have received much more studies. A solution is possible under the Special Solidarity Fund by placing the men in question under the category of 'all kinds'. I have mentioned a number of examples of treatments. Do men enjoy the same reimbursement as women? What do you intend to do with this inequality? Would you like to remedy that situation? How and with what timing do you want to do that?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u55	Mrs Dedry, there is indeed a possibility to apply to the Special Solidarity Fund of the RIZIV. That application shall be submitted by the sickness fund of the patient concerned. If the dossier is complete, a reply will follow within the month following the application. As I already replied to your question of 4 September 2018, the studies on antihormonal treatments in men with breast cancer have proven to be negative or inadequate. It is therefore lacking in what is called a marketing authorisation or license to market those products for the treatment of men with breast cancer. Despite this absence, as I have told you, medicinal products containing tamoxifene as an active substance have been reimbursed for men since this year. Again, for the other treatments there is no or insufficient study material on the basis of which a firm can normally apply for reimbursement. Of course, there are very few men with breast cancer, but they are there. We agree, but they do not necessarily have the same type of breast cancer. So those volumes are much smaller. It is therefore difficult to set up a study on this subject with a representative number of patients.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u56	Are we an exception? What is the situation in other countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u57	The situation there is the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u58	Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u59	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Thiéry (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Thiéry on his excellent report. Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mrs Van Camp's 27978 and 27980 have been postponed. Question No 5, by Mr De Gucht 27983 by Mrs Jiroflée was postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 27985 by Mrs Jadin is converted into a written question and Question No 27985 by Mrs Jadin 28011 by Mr Blanchart was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u60	Madam Secretary, urgent medical aid is more than a legal obligation. It is a service that is crucial and requires urgency. Moreover, it requires the professional commitment of people and resources. Today, 80% of these services are provided by the relief zones, the former fire zones. The inadequate funding due to the FPS Public Health has been adapted for a long time by the cities and municipalities concerned. Staff costs represent the bulk of the cost. Only in this way can a proper and high-quality staff policy be pursued, with an organisation that monitors the quality of the training of the ambulance staff and offers a working regime allowing them to participate in the service sufficiently equipped to ensure quality of those delicate services. Part of our territory is served by private companies. There are other priorities, commercial considerations that, combined with insufficient funding from the FPS Public Health, have proved to be the cause of a number of pressing problems and emerging abuses in recent times. Savings on staff costs are, after all, at the expense of a quality service which is acceptable to all concerned, but also to the detriment of the well-being of the employees themselves. Such problems are likely to be at the expense of a necessary service to any citizen in need of emergency assistance, even in situations where life-saving initiatives depend on the use of professional workers. Madam Minister, every citizen has the right to the same quality of service. This seems impossible for several reasons in areas where private companies provide that service. Do you share that opinion? In your opinion, should the quality bar be at the same level? Both public and private service providers must guarantee the same service. This seems impossible to me without the same statute on working conditions and quality requirements. Do you have any plans to set a standard in this area as well? I know that you have made a very welcome financial effort. However, I hear from several areas that this financial effort is a drop in the ocean. Are you planning or will you not have the opportunity to clearly provide additional resources in a government of current cases? My experience in a number of areas of assistance and contacts with colleagues teach me that, over the next six years of the new legislature, municipalities may not be able to raise the resources needed for urgent medical care, hence my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u61	Mr Vanvelthoven, you put your finger on the wound. At the beginning of this legislature, I found a sector of urgent medical assistance which has been in need for years. The sector has made efforts to survive, because they are motivated people, but they have not received enough attention for many years, but they have not received enough money either. I then made a plan of action, because there were also other problems, including too many grey areas and white areas, not only on the Walloon side but also in West Flanders or on the coast, where urgent medical care could not reach the patient in time. That is why, for the first time in our country, we have drawn up an overall plan of action, which, of course, also required a financial injection. I have managed to triple the budget, but it is true that efforts will have to be made in the coming years. With the provisional twelfths, that will not be possible now. I agree with your statement. There was a very great need for both an improvement in financing and an improvement in the organization of the urgent medical aid sector. The grant envelope for the ambulance services was about €5 million at the beginning of this legislative period. I have made several investments and in 2019 the budget amounts to about EUR 70 million. If we were to succeed again in repeating that exercise in the next legislature, I think we will be around. As part of this reform, a new financing model for ambulance services entered into force on 1 January 2019. This model contains two large components. On the one hand, there is tariff security for patients in the case of urgent medical care of EUR 60, regardless of their place of residence. This is a good thing, because we know of amounts of EUR 500 to even EUR 600. Even if half of them are repaid, this means that some EUR 300 will have to be paid. On the other hand, there will also be more transparency through a flat-rate billing of EUR 60 per intervention. The funding is no longer done by the RIZIV, but by the FPS Public Health. After all, the organisation of urgent medical assistance is a responsibility of the Public Health Office. As part of the organisational reform, the management of the sector was also adapted. For example, new agreements were concluded with all ambulance services. These agreements between ambulance services and public authorities clearly state that the ambulance services must organise their activities in accordance with Belgian legislation. The agreements also contain clear quality requirements. This includes the service level agreement regarding the exit, the crew to be present as well as the level of education, as well as the contents of the ambulance. Every department that receives a grant from the Public Health Office must comply with this requirement. These requirements are the same for all services, regardless of whether they are private or public. The purpose of the subsidy is to finance services. Every citizen therefore has the right to the same quality of service, regardless of the status of the service. The training required by ambulance workers is also the same regardless of the public or private nature of the ambulance service. With regard to the statute on working conditions, I must refer you to my fellow ministers who are responsible for this. So much has been achieved in this legislature, but I agree with you on the future. The plan is there, it can be implemented further. However, we must be able to give another injection of 50 to 60 million a year in order to implement the plan in its entirety. However, we are on the right track. For the first time in a long time, we have provided a clear response to the needs of urgent medical aid, which is important for every citizen.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u62	Madam Minister, I would like to confirm that you have indeed made efforts and helped to alleviate some of the financial suffering. In my view, there are two problems which will have to be dealt with federally in the next legislature and which are also an important signal to local authorities: funding and the status of working conditions. We note, after all, that there are considerable differences in remuneration between private services, on the one hand, and aid areas, on the other, and this has to do with the statute. This means that urgent aid comes in difficult papers. I note in particular that in the next legislature, in whatever capacity, you will continue to take part in this cart.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u63	Minister, my question concerns cyproterone acetate (ANDROCUR and its generics). This is a hormonal treatment used in the context of prostate cancer in humans, also indicated in the treatment of female hirsutism and also prescribed as a contraceptive for endometriosis or resistant acne. The Agence nationale de sécurité du médicaine et des produits de santé en France (ANSM) released the results of a pharmacoepidemy study on more than 250,000 patients exposed to cyproterone acetate. These results have shown that the risk of meningioma increases with the duration of use of the medicinal product. The results of the study suggest that the risk of meningioma is multiplied by 7 for women treated with high doses over a long period (more than 6 months) and by 20 after 5 years of treatment. This study was conducted in 250,000 women, comparing those who received high doses with those who received low exposure. The occurrence of meningioma in these women was therefore monitored for 7 years. ANSM has made very strict recommendations for use and supervision of care providers, including MRI or neurological monitoring. In addition, it has also set up a hotline for patients and their entourage. Minister, it would appear that no initiative has yet been taken by the AFMPS in this area. In your opinion, is this file the subject of particular attention of the AFMPS? What's the status of the file analysis? Would it not be appropriate, in the light of the precautionary principle and in the same way as the procedures established in France, to inform healthcare providers and patients about this?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u64	Mr Thiéry, the Vigilance Division of AFMPS was well aware of the pharmacoepidemological study showing the increased risk of meningioma associated with the use of cyproterone acetate. The Agency also received recommendations from the French authorities, which are continuing their investigations. However, the full results of the study have not yet been published. The new legislation on pharmacovigilance offers the possibility of assessing such a problem in one of the Member States, before it is examined at EU level, in order to find a harmonious solution. The French authorities have announced that they will share their recommendations at European level. In the meantime, this topic has already been discussed on 6 November at the Safety Board meeting, which is the working group responsible for pharmacovigilance issues of the Committee on Medicinal Products for Human Use. During this meeting, the desirability of providing for a communication on this subject was discussed. The risk of meningioma is already included in the summary of product characteristics and the package leaflet for medicinal products containing cyproterone. Therefore, the AFMPS considered it preferable to wait until the evaluation was completed before communicating on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u65	Minister, thank you for your extremely clear answer. The AFMPS decided to wait. I can only take note of this, but I hope that no cases of meningioma will be reported between the time they are informed of the findings of the study and the time they are communicated to the medical profession, which was mentioned alongside the patients in my question. I understand that we do not want to alarm the latter – it seems perfectly logical to me – but we should at least remind the prescribers of the potential harmfulness of this medicine. Now, as you say, the AFMPS has taken on its responsibilities. Let's hope there's no problem in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u66	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Hedebouw's 28044 and 28045 were converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jiroflée's 28065 and 28066 were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u67	(...) I only brought the answers to item 50. More than 30 questions have also been postponed today. Moreover, these answers are constantly being reworked, which means a great deal of work. Is it still the intention of those Members to ask their questions, because a number of questions were also postponed last time? It's hard to work like that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u68	Don't tell me, I'm here. You still have the answer to question No. 28149 by Mr Calomne, but not by the questions between them?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u69	No. If I have not yet received the answers from the administration or the consultant concerned, then I cannot give them either, but until item 50 we had all the answers. However, I have the answer to Mr Calomne's question, which has been here for so long and so well.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u70	Thank you, Madam President, and thank you, Madam Minister: I have been here since the beginning of this committee, as you do. I wanted to ask you a question, which dates back a bit, in relation to the availability of influenza vaccines. The press recently echoed a possible stock shortage of influenza vaccines in our country. In France, the prevention campaign has been so successful that vaccines are scarce throughout the country, despite a 10% increase in their stock. Although we are not yet in this situation, the spokesman for the Belgian Pharmaceutical Association stated that "there is no more stock available at the level of firms or distribution wholesalers" and that although vaccines are still available in many pharmacies, "more and more pharmacies are reporting ruptures". Minister, how many people were vaccinated against influenza in Belgium in 2018? Is this an increase over previous years? In this respect, which regions are the most affected? At this stage, are you aware of the number of vaccines still available in Belgium and of any projected future demand?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u71	Mr Calomne, the ideal time for influenza vaccination is between mid-October and mid-November. The vast majority of people vaccinated receive the vaccine during this period. The national source of the percentage of influenza vaccinations is the health survey by interview. This survey has been organized every four to five years since 1997 at the request of the Federal and the Regions and Communities. The most recent data are from 2013. The most recent interview campaign was conducted in 2018, but its results are not yet available. In 2013, 44% of the population at risk aged 15 years and over reported being vaccinated against influenza during the season prior to the national health survey. This percentage is lowest in the younger age groups, and it increases steadily to 68% among those aged 75 or older. The percentage of people at risk who were vaccinated against influenza during the previous vaccination season (2013) varied according to the Region, with a higher percentage of vaccinations in Flanders (47%) than in Wallonia (38%) and Brussels (39%). The percentage of people with chronic conditions or older than 64 years of age who were vaccinated against influenza during the pre-health survey season increased from 32% to 47% between 1997 and 2004. This upward trend, however, reversed from 2008 when the figure was 45%. The percentage of vaccinations remained stable in Flanders in 2013, at 44%. In Brussels and Wallonia, however, there was a slight decrease in the percentage between 2008 and 2013. Each year, approximately 1.6 million vaccines are reimbursed by INAMI. This is an underestimation of the number of influenza vaccines actually administered, as the number of people who are not eligible for a refund is not known. Only figures are available for those who have a refund, i.e. the elderly and at risk. This winter, 1,598,181 vaccines were reimbursed during the period from September to November inclusive. This is very similar to the two previous winters. I can send you the numbers, but they're almost the same. The source is the Belgian Pharmaceutical Association. During the two previous winters, that is, the winters 2016-17 and 2017-18, the vast majority of vaccines (94%) were delivered and reimbursed each time during the months of September to November inclusive. In December 2016 and 2017, 4% of the vaccines were still delivered and reimbursed. In January 2016 and 2017, only 1%. For next year, we noted what happened in neighbouring countries. We've already had a meeting to prepare ourselves for enough vaccines. It should also be said that when late flus still occur in March, people complain about the lack of vaccines. This is normal because they are to be administered from mid-October to mid-November. In the workplace and everywhere, more and more people are convinced of their usefulness. It's not mandatory, but 80% of my office, for example, has been vaccinated. This was done in a week. If there was no problem with us this year, in other countries, yes. Meetings have already been held with our partners to consider the precautions to be taken for next year. The number of volunteers for vaccination remains stable.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-30-54-commissie-ic1026x.u72	Minister, thank you for the information you provided. Unlike other neighbouring countries, Belgium has not encountered any problems this year. In addition, you have anticipated next year and plan to adjust the quantities if necessary. It is true that people are increasingly sensitive and supportive of this vaccination. I also thank you for your reassuring words, Minister.
