ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1064x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Hedebouw's 27671 will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1064x.u2	Madam President, we remain enthusiastic about asking questions until the end and the Minister to answer them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1064x.u3	I'm always here. I wonder why.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1064x.u4	At the beginning of March, Minister, you announced that you would release a budget of EUR 4.5 million for, on the one hand, the additional financing of three existing care centres following sexual violence in Ghent, Liège and Brussels and, on the other hand, for the opening of three new centres, namely in Leuven, Antwerp and Charleroi. Such centres play a very important role due to the low-threshold and multidisciplinary approach. The first center opened its doors in Ghent in 2017. You indicated that 1 477 victims have been offered since then. The willingness to report also appears to be much higher. Up to 7 out of 10 victims filed a complaint. Research showed that there was only one victim in 10 and that there was a very high dark number. Minister, a scientific evaluation of the functioning of care centres following sexual violence was planned. Are the conclusions available yet? If so, can you explain the strengths and weaknesses of the assistance of the victims? Secondly, can you explain to the new centres when each project starts, with a specific timeline? Can you explain the budget for each centre? Which partners will be involved in the creation of the new care centre in Leuven?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1064x.u5	Mrs Van Hoof, the subject was also commented on by other colleagues in the media, but apparently they cannot be released for the committee meeting. That can happen; in any case, I would very much like to explain your questions. Since 2017, there are three care centres in Belgium after sexual violence, in Ghent, Brussels and Liège. The centres are linked to hospitals and offer services to victims of sexual violence. They can go there for medical and forensic research, trauma processing, advice and assistance from police and prosecutors. During the first year from 25 October 2017 to 31 October 2018, 248 victims registered in Ghent, 462 in Brussels and 220 in Liège. The total number of victims is thus 930. The willingness to report is indeed much higher: 7 out of 10 victims who have presented themselves to a care centre also complain. That's a little easier there, because the police and/or the police are also present. We normally find a large dark number in the case of sexual offences: more than 90% of the victims do not want to complain. I am convinced that care centres add value to our approach to sexual violence. In the care centres, victims are taken care of by specially trained personnel, everything happens at the speed of the victim, the forensic investigation is less invasive and more detailed, one is assisted by a case manager and a psychologist, a complaint is interrogated by a sex inspector with knowledge of the facts and is also filmed so that the victim does not have to repeat his or her story. Through such an approach, I hope that, in the long term, the number of victims with post-traumatic stress disorder will be reduced and more of the perpetrators can be identified and convicted. Moreover, the victims and the other stakeholders are satisfied with the functioning of the care centres, so that is no different for us. Indeed, the interim analysis of the interviews with the victims shows that they are very satisfied with the care of the staff employed, the forensic nurses, the psychologists and the sex inspectors and with the respect with which they are treated. They also appreciate that all care is free and offered in one place. The care centres following sexual violence were re-evaluated at the end of February 2019. This evaluation focused, among other things, on the satisfaction of the victims and the staff. The evaluation report will be available at the end of this month, as we have already indicated. You'll have to wait a little longer, because I haven't gotten it yet. I can also say that our care centres are quite similar to the centres of sexual violence in the Netherlands. However, there are some differences in the police approach, as Belgian legislation is different. In the Netherlands, a forensic investigation is only carried out after a complaint has been lodged. That happens all the time in front of the police forensic detectives. If you want to report it in the Netherlands, the police will make an appointment with the victim at the police station within a few days. With great modesty I think our approach is slightly more efficient than the Dutch approach. One can certainly take an example of how we work there. We also carry out forensics without a complaint and without the presence of the police. In this way, the victim may later decide to file a complaint. The interrogation also happens immediately in the center by the vice inspectors. We also have a different system for minors. In the Netherlands there is a special team of Dutch police investigating the body of minors. In the Belgian centres, many more men registered than in the Netherlands. That is also a surprising observation. The basic principle of the Belgian care centres and the Dutch centres of sexual violence is the same. The victim is indeed being followed by a case manager. Forensic nurses play the role of case manager. For example, after the registration they contact the victim several times to hear how things are going and to help them plan appointments with the psychologist, at the AIDS Reference Centre and so on. These cases are also proceeding at the pace and according to the needs of the victim. During the pilot year, 837 of the 930 victims were followed by a case manager. That's 90 percent. Of course, the free provision of this care depends on a price tag. On the basis of the first evaluation, the cost of a new centre during the first year is indeed around EUR 1.2 million. The operating costs of an existing healthcare centre are around 800 000 euros per year. This means that the first year of a care centre to be set up will entail EUR 400 000 start-up costs, which, of course, will no longer have to be paid afterwards. This will finance both the hospital where the care centre is located and the police area. As far as the hospital is concerned, most of the budget goes to personnel costs. Staff must be on standby 24 hours a day for the victims. In addition, a budget is provided for the care-related costs such as medication, consultation, medical testing and general operating costs such as maintenance, ICT, cleaning, etc. The evaluation report will address this in more detail, so that any gaps can be addressed. As announced, I have visited the health centre in Ghent, three new centres will soon be established in the regions of Antwerp, Flemish Brabant and Charleroi. You mentioned Leuven, Mr Van Hoof. That's Flemish Brabant. The choice of locations is, of course, linked to the relatively high number of reports of sexual violence in those places. It is not the minister who said that he finds it interesting to open something in Flemish Brabant, Antwerp and Charleroi. This choice was made on the basis of figures provided by the Institute for the Equality of Women and Men. If new centres are to be set up, they should be there in the first place. There are still regions without a centre, such as Limburg. However, the figures on sexual violence show that we must first open a centre where these figures are highest, unfortunately. The Institute for the Equality of Women and Men, which co-ordinates all care centres for sexual violence, is in the process of preparing them so that they will be able to open in a year's time. This is no longer a pilot project. We must therefore make an appeal and the various hospitals should be given the opportunity to register. We must then draw conclusions. We have called for this to be done within a year. This year, the conditions for setting up such a centre will be adapted on the basis of the results of the scientific evaluation. It examines which hospitals are eligible in the regions concerned and negotiates with all relevant actors, hospitals, police zones, parquets and DNA laboratories. Afterwards, conventions and cooperation agreements are signed, the necessary renovations are carried out and the staff are recruited and trained. On the one hand, the budget for this will depend on the results of the scientific evaluation and on the number of victims expected at each centre. It is estimated that the average will be around EUR 1 million per center. We have worked hard to release these resources. I regret that some Members of this House have created some uncertainty about this in the media. Structural funding of EUR 4.5 million has been made available. This funding will be added to the subsidy from the National Lottery of 1.5 million euros. This subsidy was planned in the past, but it has to be decided again and again. This means that a total budget of EUR 6 million is available. This is enough to finance the existing centres in a structural way, but also to extend them to three new centres. However, the extension to six care centres after sexual violence is not the end. I believe that in the coming years, not only should the operation of these six centres be monitored, but it should also be possible to establish a care centre in each province. We have made every effort to find structural resources for the three existing centres. That funding ended this year. In addition, we have ensured that at least three centres are added. This is also possible on the basis of the total budget of EUR 6 million. Afterwards it can be examined whether there is a need for additional care centres, in each province one or even more than that. It is in the interests of all these women and the limited number of men who are the victims of this that a very good initiative has been taken. For the record, the initiative was taken by Secretary of State Sleurs. It started a pilot project on temporary financing. We are now making this structural and doubling its size.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1064x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive reply. D This committee organised a visit to such a centre in Brussels and we were impressed by it. I therefore regret that there has been a miscommunication in the media and that you have not had the opportunity to respond to it. The President also knows that it was intended to roll this out in other provinces, but that your predecessor had not allocated any funds to do so. The budget was not finally approved, but we did discuss it here. I remember that only EUR 1 million were made available in structural terms at the time. I should like to congratulate you on having managed to provide an additional 4.5 million, in addition to the 1.5 million from the National Lottery. You were right to provide funds in this area quickly and to roll out the model in three additional provinces. As you said, it is a good thing that we are working at the speed of the victims, with respect for their emotions. In this way one can see how that evolves over time, whether they still want to file a complaint. So we do better than the Netherlands if we keep the forensic evidence, the DNA, until they file a complaint. In fact, we are doing very well, inspired by the UK. It is a very nice model that was indeed initiated at the time by Mrs Sleurs. Ik betreur aldus de miscommunicatie ter zake. I hope, of course, that the city of Leuven will also enter the project. The city has a university hospital and will probably file a file. In this way, the victims will also be able to be properly supervised there and in the other provinces. I thank you for your answer and for releasing the funds.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1064x.u7	My question, Mr President, is this: 289445 was referred to the Committee on Social Affairs, but I will also have to address them to you. That's pretty kafkaian, but there's nothing we can do about it. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dallemagne's 28952 will be converted into a written question. Mr Olivier Henry, who is question No. 29028 is not present and has not informed. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 29140, by Mr de la Malène Question No 29141 and Question No 2914 29150 by Mr Hedebouw are converted into written questions. As a result of this situation, the only one present cannot ask his question and we are finished with our work. Thank you, Minister, for being here.
