ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u1	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since five groups are asking a question on the same subject, we felt that a topical debate was appropriate. We have questions on the same subject, the National Energy-Climate Plan. We therefore thought that a topical debate would be welcome, in particular because the questions come from five different groups. That is why we have adjusted the schedule a little bit. First, the five questioners are discussed and immediately afterwards, anyone who wishes to add a question can do so. Only then will the Minister reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u2	Minister, two weeks ago, I wanted to ask you about the analytical work and lessons already learned from the National Energy-Climate Plan investigation. As a result of the postponement of my question, we are here with a news release this morning on this subject, which requires me to update my question. This survey is intended to help us set long-term national targets to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions under the Paris Agreement. However, even before discussing the conclusions that could be drawn, the sample of survey respondents should be questioned. Of the 52,000 respondents, only 17% live in Wallonia. Therefore, in order to avoid any bias in the analysis of results, the question that arises today is as follows. How do you intend, at this stage, to fill the gap in the representativeness of Francophone voices in the National Energy-Climate Plan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u3	Mr President, Minister, my colleague pointed out that this morning you announced in the press as a happy message that the external agency has analysed some of the issues raised by the public inquiry. In your opinion, the most important items included increased investment in offshore windmills, the development of renewable energy, the fiscal improvement of public transport and a long-term vision for a government, regardless of its composition. Friday the next week of action for the climate will begin. Next week's Youth For Climate. So you are already under heavy pressure, which we will hear about biofuels. Madam Minister, what further comments do you have on the external agency's preliminary, interim or final analysis in connection with the public inquiry? In addition to my question, I would like to call on you to keep a cool head in the coming weeks and months. I refer in all calm and tranquility to what an economist in De Tijd today notices. It states that the climate policy for residential buildings, i.e. non-EPC+ residences, may lead to the greatest power destruction of our generations. We will be able to have the debate, particularly on affordability, in the next few months. You can expect pressure from our side in the next few weeks and months, which also applies to your colleagues and to the members of the future Flemish Government.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u4	Madam Minister, by the end of the year, our country, like all the other Member States of the European Union, must submit to the Commission its National Energy-Climate Plan for the period 2021-2030. It will outline the transition to a sustainable, reliable and affordable energy system. In order to enable everyone to give their opinion on this plan, a large public survey was carried out between early June and mid-July. At the previous meeting of this committee, when the investigation was over, you told us that, despite figures that are not yet definitive, it seemed to have gathered a very large number of respondents. You also told us that an external office would, in collaboration with your administration, analyse the results. It is now apparent that more than 52,000 people have participated in this survey. While we can welcome this important participation, it is particularly interesting to note that 75% of the responses come from the Dutch-speaking side of our country. Having said that, can you tell us the total number of remarks made by the citizens? Has a thorough analysis of the results already been carried out? If so, can you tell us? In concrete terms, will there be significant changes in the plan presented and, if so, what kind of changes? Finally, it is expected that our country will call upon neighbouring countries in the coming weeks to work with them at a regional level. Would it be possible to have more information about this phase? How will it be structured? Have there been any exchanges on this subject? Madam Minister, thank you for your response and for the follow-up you will give to this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am a little surprised at the spirit of this debate. The climate affects us all, regardless of our language role. It is a little unfortunate that the debate should be held to this end, but it may not be intended to do so. Madam Secretary, I have also read the newspaper and am very looking forward to the analysis that has been made. I suppose you'll explain it. On 15 July, I already questioned you at the committee meeting about the informal consultation with the European Commission on the follow-up to its recommendations. It was very specific about which recommendations would or would not be followed and how they would be justified. It leads too far to quote your answer completely, because we can just read it in the report, but it meant that within ENOVER we have a pilot group, in which we prepare the answers, that we have informal consultations with the Commission and are working hard on this. This month, the European Commission launched consultations with the Member States on the preparation of the final plan and thus on the follow-up to its comments. Madam Secretary, what is the analysis of Enover's pilot group? Can you deliver that analysis to our committee? How will the consultation with the European Commission be prepared? Who will take part in this? Finally, what position will Belgium take in this informal consultation on the European Commission's recommendations?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u6	Mr President, Minister, as a result of the public survey, you have said in the press today that many people want a long-term vision for climate policy. Today, the National Climate and Energy Plan is an important document. I have the following questions about this. My first question concerns the method itself. We received feedback on the previous draft submitted. What are you doing with that feedback? As far as timing is concerned, you have previously stated that you do not really feel the need to comply with the deadline of 31 December 2019. Is that true, or can we expect the National Climate and Energy Plan to reach Europe this year? One of Europe's criticisms was that our plan should be a better integrated whole. In Europe's view, it was too much of a gathering of the plans of our various Länder. How can we ensure that they are better aligned? I think that is important and I look forward to your answer. I have two specific questions. Will the share of renewable energy be increased to a minimum of 25%? In what way will the financial underpinning of the plan be improved? Who's working on that? Finally, a practical question. Can you give us a list of all the measures contained in the interparliamentary climate resolution that were included in the draft of the plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u7	Colleagues, anyone who feels called to speak on the National Climate and Energy Plan can do so now.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u8	Mr. Chairman, it seems to me important to take into account the actual responses of the public through which it is observed that 60% of respondents to the survey respond very clearly that what matters today is a long-term political vision. That's the answer we have to look at today.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your many questions that are coming to light today, as you have seen, as mentioned earlier, that a company has been contracted to deal with all the answers given to the questionnaire. There were two types of questions: questions to which the speakers could answer by yes or no, and open questions in which an argument could be developed. To deal with these answers, we had to get help. The numbers you quote are correct, finally. "Finally" because they have to be analysed from two angles: the total number of participants is 61,000, of whom approximately 52,000 completed the questionnaire, while 20,000 (part of which is part of the 52,000) participated in the answers to the open questions. That is, some completed the entire questionnaire by choosing to answer the yes/no questions and then the open questions, and others (52,000) only did the yes/no questions and some did not choose this method of answer but the open fields. The subject matter is considerable and has been dealt with, which has allowed me to say – not in my opinion but in the answers given – that, on the one hand, it has been clearly stated in the survey that the governments to be constituted or already constituted must consider a long-term policy with courage and resolution and, on the other hand, that in this policy, a lot of things are being eroded over the course of the answers, but what is important is that nine out of ten people believe that offshore development is a very good solution and that it is necessary to continue in this direction. Beyond that, there are answers on vehicle use, waste sorting, energy efficiency of buildings, etc. The first question is how is there a net differential between the number of respondents in the north, central and southern parts of the country? As I said this morning in the press, I do not explain this to myself since everyone was able to have the questionnaire and enough time to answer it, as well as all the possibilities to do so: either by answering yes or no – the easiest way – or by using – for those willing to elaborate a reasoning – fifteen open questions. The possibility of giving his point of view was really offered. However, can we say, as the newspaper in question did, that there is a lack of interest? I see Mrs. Hanus says no. I say no with her. There is no less interest in the south of the country than in the north. On the other hand, there may be a different way of thinking things. Culturally, we may be less interested in answering. So what to do? I can't do anything more. We need ways to launch this kind of investigation. Beyond that, I do not see how one could encourage an audience, who already has the information and time to answer questions, to answer them more than I have seen in previous surveys where the same answer differential has already been found. All suggestions are good to take. There may be a need for increased awareness. For, of course, it is not for the form that such a questionnaire is launched, but to enrich the work on the National Energy-Climate Plan, a plan that is not only in the hands of the federal government. The Belga press release that we have written bears witness to this: it is also the responsibility of regional governments. Not only because the whole country is interested, but also because the subjects dealt with are distributed in a differentiated way between the federal and the regions, even more so since the sixth reform of the state voted in 2014. For a slightly more accurate feedback on the online survey, the public and stakeholders also had the opportunity to respond by e-mail either to the general NECS or to the different specific plans of the entities. The questionnaire contained annexes. Sometimes there is more than one plan per Region. Stakeholders were allowed to interact with these attached plans. Through e-mail addresses related to the NECP and the federal contribution, we also received 230 responses from citizens or stakeholders, with or without attachments, as it was also possible to document its intervention with attachments. First of all, I will talk to you about the deadline of 31 December and everything that can and must happen in the meantime. Firstly, as I have already told you, and since this is part of the obligations that we must comply with, on 4 September, a consultation took place at the level of the directorates-general of the neighbouring countries. Indeed, we must consult our neighbours in a regional framework for our National Energy-Climate Plan and they must do the same. On Friday 13 September - so not so long ago since we are the 18th - a consultation with the Belgian stakeholders was held. It is also one of our obligations. The results of this exchange and the regional consultation will reach us within the next 15 days. They will be in addition to the results of the public survey of citizens during the summer weeks. With regard to the follow-up to the timing, once we have all these elements, we will see which governments of full exercise will be at our side. It is to be hoped that within a fortnight the Flemish government will be formed, but I leave three points of suspension. Unfortunately, I do not know the future. In any case, the federal government is still in limbo. However, if we want to raise our ambitions within the framework of the National Energy-Climate Plan for all entities, we must necessarily be able to do so, since it is also a commitment to a trajectory within the European framework. This can only be done with full-fledged governments. Why? Because we have to ask ourselves at different levels of power, depending on the skills to be used and on the vectors that are being questioned – i.e. the energy and climate vectors specific to each level of power – how to achieve together the recommendations and levels of demand proposed by Europe. Of course, it is not a question of saying that on 31 December nothing will be done. I would nevertheless like to be quite clear about this. We'll do what we can on December 31. With a government in day-to-day business, we cannot make a decision on the medium and long term because we are still on the horizon of 2030. It is practically long term when we see the duration of the legislatures which is five years. This represents two legislatures and we cannot decide, without a full-fledged government, instead of that government. The sooner we have the happiness of seeing a federal government and a Flemish regional government – as I say and repeat: before 31 December – the sooner we can take a position on this draft National Energy-Climate Plan and on all the contributions we have gathered through the public survey of citizens, neighbouring countries and stakeholders. Secondly, with regard to the interim balance sheet, it is a little too early to draw it, because we are still waiting for some answers. In addition, the analysis of results by an external office is still ongoing. We will still have to wait a couple of days before we have a general point of view from which we can discuss it together. My climate and energy administrations are also reviewing all of these results. We will be able to deconstruct it at a later stage. That is how I see, at this stage, and in an evolutionary way, how to continue this work in order to bring it to a successful conclusion. The aim is to make a National Energy-Climate Plan as ambitious as possible or, in any case, in line with the European recommendations by 31 December. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u10	Madam Secretary, I am pleased that you have kept your expectations a little low. You are reducing the expectations of a lot of lobby groups who will, of course, be translated politically here. You present a realistic picture of what is possible. This also partly falls or stands with new governments. Mr President, I do not know if there was any regulation of the work this morning, but I would like to take this opportunity to express my disappointment at next week's hearing. There is virtually no one among the speakers we will hear who even makes a different sound. I am thinking, for example, of the VBO, which has said that it is unrealistic to consider it even more realistic to increase its ambitions. If Youth for Climate is gonna be here next week, the VBO might as well be here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u11	Apparently, that will be decided next week. That hasn't happened yet.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u12	Madam Minister, as far as the questioning is concerned, we have already discussed this in detail. Before the holiday, an explanation was given about the number of people who had answered the open and closed questions. I haven't actually heard anything new here. This morning we could read in the newspaper that those who have completed the survey ask for more ambition. I hear the Minister saying that she can't actually do anything right now because of the current cases. However, we do have a Parliament with full powers here today. It is not because the government is on-going that Parliament is also on-going. If the Minister is of the opinion that it cannot decide, she must come to Parliament to have the position put forward by Belgium validated by Parliament. There is a position because there is an interparliamentary climate resolution that explicitly subscribes to the European climate strategy with carbon neutrality by 2050. Madam Minister, two regional governments have already been formed and are also enrolling in climate neutrality by 2050, the Walloon and Brussels governments. The Flemish Government is still under negotiation. At the federal level, Parliament is in operation. We have met this morning, we are meeting now and we will also meet in the coming weeks. So a Belgian position can perfectly be validated by Parliament. I therefore believe that we will have to see each other again several times and that you can ask us for validation. Secondly, I may be mistaken, but I have not really heard an answer to my questions. There is public consultation on the one hand and the European Commission's recommendations on the other. Last time it was said that this would be looked at in ENOVER. This is not innocent, by the way. The European Commission's climate governance regulation explicitly states that the European Commission's recommendations are not non-binding. As a Member State, we must position ourselves and indicate what we will do with these recommendations. If we decide not to follow the recommendations, we will have to motivate them. I asked this on July 15th, too. Let us take the example of the share of renewable energy. Nine out of ten Belgians have asked you to continue the offshore ambitions. The European Commission has stated in its recommendations that the proposed level of ambition in the field of renewable energy is not in line with European targets. I therefore stick to my question as to what follow-up is being given by ENOVER. What matters are being discussed there? Will we take note of the recommendations and make adjustments that are in line with them? Or will ENOVER simply defend its own actions at the European Commission? I did not receive any answers to those questions. Finally, a comment for my colleague. The secretariat e-mailed everyone asking for proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u13	Minister, thank you for your answers. It remains an important element in terms of methodology. I was able to read in the press that you felt that the Flemish people had much more access to information. Although the important thing remains the substance and the analysis that can be drawn from it, it is essential that this National Plan reflects the views of the citizens of the country as a whole and the way forward seems to me to be a better consultation with the Regions to disseminate the survey. I also invite you to bear in mind the support of the local authorities who could also disseminate this survey.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u14	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I understand the difficult situation you're in. I would like to make some sense of that, because the result is important. The result must be a well integrated plan to be drawn up together with the regions. There is some progress in this area, but I understand that this is difficult. However, we must not sit still. A number of good steps have now been taken. Let's think about that public survey where there's a lot of food and drink that's useful for drawing up our plan. I would like to hear you say that it must be an ambitious plan. You will find a partner in us for this, unlike my colleague, who is already starting to stand on the brakes. When one looks at the questioning and sees what people want, one finds that people want action. People do not want us to stand on the brakes any longer and use the word realism even before the plan is written out. I find that attitude particularly regrettable. Every time people are scared by pointing out the affordability of the plans, I will talk about the opportunities for new jobs, and new economic impulses and investments to become more energy independent. I am sorry that we are already being put on the brakes when we have not even started.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u15	Mr. President, I don't have much. It's an exchange of views. We're not in a closed question-and-answer exercise, it's more open. Objectively, I am obviously not going to deliver an analysis that has not yet been completed. CONCERE-ENOVER brings together regional and federal governments and can therefore easily draft a notice publication. I will explain what has been said in the press today, which is not entirely correct. There's a little bit missing to make me understand. CONCERE-ENOVER is analysing all this with the relevant administrations, both at the federal and regional levels. As long as we do not receive all the answers that have to be received and come, as I have told you, from the neighbouring countries and from the stakeholders, there will be no analysis as such. In two or three weeks, we can come back to the subject. Parliament can be a key player in the work of the National Energy-Climate Plan. In fact, Parliament has already referred to an interparliamentary resolution which, as its name indicates, has been taken by federal and regional parliamentarians. Mr. Verduyckt requested a copy earlier, which the secretariat was fully in a position to communicate to him. This resolution shows the demands and requests made by the Parliament of the previous legislature to the government. This is all very well, but arbitration will still have to be done, since all these issues need to be budgeted. Mrs Van der Straeten, I would like to hear what you are saying, but at some point we need to know what each level of power is able to do budgetaryly to achieve what it envisages in the context of ambitions. Sometimes we can disconnect the ambitions of the concrete route, thinking that if we are not ambitious, we may have less chance of starting a machine that could reach far enough. But it remains that reality, by 2030, can and must be clearly described and budgeted. But this cannot be done outside of a full-fledged government. This seems difficult to me because Parliament is not competent to draw up a budget. We will have to mark a path at some point and realize it. I like to be realistic because it is one thing to have ambitions and to want to achieve them – even if sometimes they go far – but it is another thing to have only ambitions and to know, at the moment when they are projected, that we will not be able to achieve them. It is therefore always necessary to remain in a correct relationship with reality in order to be sure of being able to succeed. Europe recommends 25% renewable. We proposed 18.5 per cent. At the federal level, we know what our renewable skills are and what we plan to achieve in the North Sea by 2030. It is up to regional governments to complete this vision in order to achieve together a trajectory that will bring us to 25% by 2030. Once the North Sea is full of wind turbines, it will be difficult to go further on renewables, just to take this segment. There are lots of things we can project and then there is reality. I propose to take stock of these issues in three to four weeks, when I have all the elements analysed by the CONCERE-ENOVER pilot group and my administrations. I hope that by then the Flemish regional government will be installed and that we will be able to read its ambitions regarding the National Energy-Climate Plan. This will allow us to project what needs to be done by the federal government to complete.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u16	Madam Minister, Belgium is not a parliamentary republic, is that what you said? However, we have both known periods, both in the period to which you referred and in the previous legislature, when I was not there, where Parliament played its part in times when there was no government or the government had no majority. The truth is always somewhere in the middle. Mr President, I would like to make a constructive proposal on this. Since the Minister says she needs another three weeks to see how things can be proposed, the groups in committee might also be able to propose improvements to the NEK. I have no problem working within the framework that you have outlined, to depart from a certain ambition, which must, of course, be based on concrete action, which must not be in the slightest, but which must take account of a particular context. Specifically with regard to renewable energy, the offshore sector says it can do even more. We both know that the costs of supporting them are falling. In a stable financial framework, we may be able to go further. With your agreement, Mr President, perhaps the political groups, since Parliament is still working, can also participate constructively in the finalisation of the NEK.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u17	This dossier may also be discussed next week when the work is discussed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u18	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Tilieux's 55000141C will be converted into a written question. The next item is the debate on the following motions for resolutions: 55000188C by Mr Wollants on Qatari investors in gas power stations.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u19	I am a little confused, Mr President, because I asked that question on 4 September, but if the Minister has a new answer, I would like to ask the question again. So unless you say otherwise, the Minister has already answered that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u20	Madam Minister, last summer a call came from the German gas pipeline to allow more hydrogen into the gas network. Thus, without adjustments, it would already be possible to replace up to 2% of the composition of natural gas with hydrogen. There are already tests in a number of regions to see what the effect would be if that percentage was increased to 20%. In the context of the debates we have had on the energy vision or the energy agreement, Fluxys indicated that it is suitable for the addition of a certain percentage of hydrogen. The current figures on the composition of natural gas, published by Fluxys, clearly show that this addition is not happening today, which brings me to a number of questions about the direction we are going in. To what extent is it already allowed today to add a certain percentage of hydrogen to the natural gas transported in the natural gas transport network? To what extent has the administration already started preparing a framework? Are there any studies available on the Belgian context? Could they possibly be made available to Parliament so that we can get on with it? In 2018, a Benelux cooperation on hydrogen was established, in particular on the possible synergy in the field of hydrogen in the Benelux context. Can you give us the current state of affairs in that regard? What results can be presented today?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u21	Madam Secretary, you were present when Fluxys, not so long ago, entered into a long-term contract with the Qataris. It is quite clear, ladies and gentlemen, that in the transition to a carbon-neutral society we will need gas longer than some of you may hope or think. In the long term, we must be able to green the gas through, among other things, the use of hydrogen. A new international report shows that the cost of producing hydrogen gas with renewable energy may fall over the next decades, making it an important technology in making a number of sectors climate neutral as clean and emission-free fuel. If the public authorities provide sufficient support, the price could continue to fall over the next few decades and this energy source could thus become a valid alternative to natural gas. The negotiations for a new Flemish government show that there is an ambition to make Flanders a frontrunner in Europe on hydrogen, because a number of companies in Flanders are world leaders in hydrogen technology and the petrochemical industry produces a lot of residual hydrogen. In order to achieve climate neutrality, and I believe that my Green and sp.a colleagues will not deny this, we will need very large quantities of renewable electricity. The combination of renewable electricity with renewable gases such as hydrogen is therefore appropriate. Madam Minister, in the last 12 months, what was the scope for action of the interfederal working group on Hydrogen and Energy Storage, which would support the development of green hydrogen in Belgium? Is there already a national policy document on hydrogen? Is it true that I agree with Mr Wollants' question that we are already preparing a regulatory framework for the transport of renewable gas through the existing network infrastructure? What will happen to the manager's investments? I am referring here to a regulatory framework for possible compensation. At Benelux level, a working group on hydrogen was set up last year to look for possible synergies and opportunities for cooperation. What are the preliminary results of this?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, the maximum concentration of hydrogen that the transported natural gas may contain is not part of the information specified or included in the authorisation of transport via a transmission line. In June 2018, an ENOVER group on Hydrogen and Energy Storage, represented by the federal and regional departments concerned, was set up on the proposal of the Energy Executive Board of the FPS Economy. The ENOVER hydrogen working group supports the development of hydrogen, inter alia, through, firstly, the coordination of Belgian hydrogen policy and positioning; secondly, the monitoring of developments within the four entities and exchange of information, studies and best practices; and thirdly, the monitoring of foreign developments in the Benelux region, European and international debt securities and identification of cooperation opportunities. The Working Group also drew up a first inter-federal reflection document on hydrogen in 2019. The reflection document addresses, among other things, the main opportunities of hydrogen, such as the possible role of green hydrogen in the transition and decarbonisation of the Belgian energy and transport system, as well as of the Belgian industry. The use of hydrogen can also help us meet our energy and climate objectives and improve our air quality. In the context of cross-border exchanges between Member States, gas quality plays a central role in the interoperability of the EU gas network. Under the supervision of CEN, the European Committee for Standardisation, discussions are already underway at European level on the harmonisation of the quality of the gas transported. Current work covers both the elaboration of a European standard for gas quality and the establishment of a European regulatory framework. For hydrogen it appears to be a complex process, because it leads to different tolerances depending on the characteristics of the gas network, but also on the final application. These aspects are currently being examined in certain European standardisation committees, e.g. CEN/TC 234 and CEN/TC 109. The injection of biomethane into natural gas transport and distribution networks is currently possible provided that compliance with certain specifications including the technical regulations G5/42 of Synergrid, the federation of electricity and gas grid operators in Belgium. In March 2018, a Benelux working group on hydrogen was established for possible synergies and cooperation opportunities in the field of hydrogen. In 2019 some hydrogen targets were highlighted in the Benelux Annual Plan. Firstly, we want to identify possible and meaningful fields of work within the Benelux in the field of green hydrogen. The second objective is to identify and develop a technical state of play in the transmission and distribution networks of natural gas and to explore the possibilities for injecting hydrogen into the networks. Thirdly, we want to explore the possibilities of harmonising safety standards for emergency services, training of technicians and facilitating consumer awareness. Currently, both regulators and distribution and transmission system operators are each working from their perspective on a penta-level report on the common design principles for the future hydrogen market. The reports will also be used to prepare the negotiations on the future gas package.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u23	Madam Secretary, if you don't mind, I'm going to reread the full answer. It wasn't always easy to follow, but that's always the case in a complex matter. What is clear is that we obviously still have a very long way to go in the field of hydrogen. Much remains to be done in this area, despite the fact that it was proposed as a matter of course a long time ago. We have had a debate here with the representatives of Fluxys. At that time it was said that this could be transported through the existing gas network without any problem. The answer I'm getting here seems a little more complex. I therefore believe that we must wait and see. After all, there are people who are today suggesting ideas such as an obligation to mix them together. These are all ideas, but I believe that this is something that may not only be carried out at the level of this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u24	Madam Minister, thank you for the very comprehensive and rich answer. This is indeed a complex file. There are still many steps to be taken, but I still hope for the future development of the so-called hydrogen market.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u25	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Leen Dierick's 55000215C is being postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u26	Mr President, Madam Minister, in preparation for COP 25 to be held in Chile next December, the international community met at the 50th session of the subsidiary bodies of the Framework Convention on Climate, held in Bonn from 17 to 27 June 2019. Madam Minister, can you give us a detailed account of the positions that were defended by the Belgian delegation at this session? What are our country's expectations for COP 25 in Santiago?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u27	Mr President, Mrs Hanus, my answer is long and detailed, as is sometimes the case, particularly in the previous dossier. In the formal multilateral negotiations under the United Nations Convention on Climate Change, the European Union is always speaking with one voice. European countries are participating in this work so that the European Union can express its views. Belgium is very active in drawing up its positions, like all other European countries, and it also exerts a strong influence on these European positions because, for many years, our administration has been working on negotiations in this framework and thus allows our country to have a pole position in terms of expertise. Most of the time, the positions developed by Belgium are endorsed and supported by other European countries. The European Union aspires to a multilateral climate regime that is fair, ambitious and supportive of the most vulnerable. Within the framework of the European position, Belgium emphasises some important elements. First, climate policy and environmental integrity are strongly based on multilateral rules. Coherent rules are of particular importance in the ongoing negotiations on the modalities for the implementation of Article 6 of the Paris Agreement, which concerns the carbon market, and which could not be finalized in Katowice, in order to avoid any risk of affecting the level of ambition of the regime as a whole. This has nothing to do with the fact that they could not be finalized. It's a detail to explain where they are. Secondly, a five-year, efficient cycle of ambition to keep the long-term objectives of the Paris Agreement within reach. The results of the IPCC special report on global warming must be taken into account and the European Union must examine in depth, by 2020, whether the 2030 targets can be revised upwards. This is what Belgium is asking for in this context. In addition, the integration of climate policy in the broader context of sustainable development, poverty reduction and respect for human rights. This means, in particular, that we ensure the gender dimension, the rights of indigenous peoples and an equitable transition for workers and communities who risk being negatively affected by the transition to a climate-neutral society. The high-level conference I co-organised last February here in Brussels on climate and oceans is also part of this broad vision. You also know that, within two days, in Monaco, countries will meet to talk precisely about the preservation of the oceans and to continue this work, knowing that COP 25 is designated by Chile on this subject in particular. Belgium also supports the delicate and nuanced compromise reached in Paris on differentiation between countries. At the same time, we take into account the legitimate concerns of developing countries that have limited capacities and are highly vulnerable, in particular the least developed countries and small island developing States. In terms of climate finance, Belgium continues to pay particular attention to adaptation finance and support for the least developed countries. Since the 2015 Paris Agreement was the subject of consensus and the modalities for implementing it were largely completed in 2018 in Katowice, the emphasis is increasingly on the implementation and monitoring of the agreements reached and on raising the level of ambition. In this context, the Climate Action Summit held on 23 September at the initiative of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr. Guterres, is a decisive step. In the formal process, 2020 is the deadline for the emergence of updated climate plans and long-term strategies. However, a number of important decisions will also have to be taken at COP 25 in Santiago. According to Belgium, these are the following points: First, we would like to close the negotiations on Article 6 of the Paris Agreement, which is really on the front line of the agenda. This issue is both technically complex and politically sensitive. For the European Union and Belgium, the preservation of environmental integrity and the level of ambition are key elements. Secondly, as far as developing countries are concerned, which are vulnerable, we would like to see a review of the Warsaw mechanism on loss and damage. We believe that this is a priority. For others, this is a sensitive subject because of the possible financial and legal consequences. Thirdly, we would like the second Gender Action Plan to be on the agenda as well. The Chilean COP 25 Presidency has also proposed a number of thematic priorities to be addressed: oceans, Antarctica, renewable energy, circular economy, ecosystems, biodiversity and electrical mobility. These are subjects that we all care about. I look forward to a positive outcome of this Climate Conference, which will build confidence in the multilateral process and, together with the New York Climate Action Summit on 23 September, will contribute to the necessary political momentum, in order to continue to encourage countries by 2020 to lay down ambitious climate plans and long-term strategies.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u28	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. The question of the preservation of our natural resources, including our water resources, is an important element to be kept in sight and that too often we forget about climate change. We've heard a lot in the press about water stress by 2030. This is not just an international concern. He is also speaking at the national level. To give it a place in the priorities of our delegation seems to me to be self-evident.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u29	Mr President, Minister, Engie Electrabel submitted an application at the beginning of the summer to increase the storage capacity and capacity of existing Coo-Trois-Ponts power plant by 7.5%. This work will be about EUR 50 million and will be completed, as planned, by 2024. A decision of the CREG provides that if both installed power and stored energy increase by more than 7.5% from the level on 1 July 2018 following those expansion works, an 80% exemption from transmission network tariffs will apply for a period of five years from the work carried out. It is reported that this discount compensates for the full amount of investment. Madam Minister, we know, of course, that the federal taxes on energy bills are only part of the charges charged. Nevertheless, we wonder what initiatives can be taken to prevent the network operator from compensating for the EUR 50 million of network charges lost as a result of this 80% exemption, elsewhere on the invoice of the families and companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you will no doubt know, the CREG is an independent regulator with exclusive competence to determine transmission network tariffs in the light of the European directive. It is not my intention to interfere in the powers of the CREG. My administration informed me that on 10 May 2019 the CREG received a tariff proposal from Elia for the tariff period 2020 to 2023. This document is not publicly available, but my administration understands from the consultation document that Elia prepared it in February 2019 before submitting a tariff file to the CREG and that it is available on Elia's website. Elia took into account in the file the aid measure which the Coo plant should benefit from from from 2020 to 2023. According to my administration's estimate, the annual tariff impact of the partial exemption from Elia's fare for Coo will be limited and probably only 1% of Elia's annual costs. The CREG announces on its website that it will publish its final decision on the tariff proposal on 14 November 2019. You will therefore have more clarity on 14 November 2019 about the evolution of the transmission network tariffs that will be billed to network users during the next four years and may ask your questions to the CREG. Finally, the next government will have full power to take adequate structural measures to ensure affordable energy for our families and businesses.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u31	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. ENGIE is the first to carry out such projects on such a scale. Perhaps many more will follow in the future. I believe that we must certainly be vigilant, since we have seen enough precedents in the past, and we have seen that so-called incentive measures have led to a substantial increase in the energy bill for families and businesses. I'm asking you to be vigilant, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u32	Minister, on June 25, the Plan Office published its report on the Belgian Sustainable Development Goals. As in December 2017, the Plan's experts note that little progress has been made towards achieving its objectives. Thus, out of 22 indicators for which a quantified target is set, it appears that only four are expected to reach their target by 2030. As for the 29 indicators studied for which our country has not set a target, only 11 are developing favourably. This leads the report to a stoning conclusion that the federal government is not implementing the existing sustainable development provisions. They add that this matter is not one of the priorities of inter-federal cooperation. Minister, how do you justify our country being so lagging behind with regard to the sustainable development goals that we have committed ourselves to achieving by 2030? In May 2018, I asked you about the Plan Bureau's previous report, which already noted that our country was not in a position to achieve these goals. You then announced the establishment of a federal "mini-plan" for sustainable development before the end of the legislature. Can you take stock of the implementation of this "mini-plan" as well as the possible results achieved?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u33	Thank you, Member, for your systematic interest in the federal sustainable development report of the Federal Office of the Plan. I am also pleased to receive a regular independent assessment of the federal sustainable development policy and its recommendations. Our experience during the previous legislature shows that it is not obvious to change the trends presented by the indicators of sustainable development. This requires fundamental changes in our consumption and production patterns, and therefore a structural transition from our development model to these sustainable development goals. There are several reasons for this. The objectives established within the United Nations have not yet been accurately translated – even though they have been translated globally – in the Belgian context, particularly in the federal context. Sometimes some objectives are very ambitious in their formulation, both in terms of the deadline and the target to be achieved. This is to be welcomed, but it does not facilitate their realization. Moreover, even when proactive policies are carried out, they do not always have a direct effect on the evolution of an indicator that informs a state of society. The causal relationship between a policy and an indicator is not always obvious. Finally, as mentioned in the preamble, achieving sustainable development goals requires a transition from our development model and thus a cross-cutting government policy. As I have already told you, and as the report notes, it is not easy to mobilize the entire government on this issue, and collaboration with other levels of government is crucial to the achievement of these objectives, which requires further efforts. On your question about the "mini-plan", as already mentioned in 2018, my firm has contacted the other federal offices on several occasions. Almost all of them have accepted bilateral meetings. Most of them sent action cards. But unfortunately, as a result, there was no agreement among the majority on all the proposals. At the same time, the Interdepartmental Commission on Sustainable Development has begun the preparation of the next federal sustainable development plan – as I have already said on several occasions – to enable the next government to adopt the plan within the year it takes office. In this regard, I would like to point out that, apart from this work, as mentioned in the report, some administrations are mobilizing very proactively to implement the sustainable development goals and are guided by them on a daily basis to guide their policies.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u34	Minister, thank you for your answers. I can, of course, share your thoughts and observations on the lack of mobilization of some, whether at the level of firms or administrations, in order to achieve the objectives set out in this development plan. I regret that awareness-raising does not have the desired effect. I count on you, as long as you remain in office, to remobilize the actors concerned so that the objectives of this plan are better quantified and in more favourable and constant evolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u35	Minister, the environment and climate are fortunately among the priorities for a growing number of citizens in 2019. Among the many ways to combat pollution, that of tree planting is often underestimated. Yet - and this has been particularly highlighted in recent weeks following the numerous fires in Africa and the Amazon - many scientific studies show that trees filter particles and many other pollutants from the air. According to a study by the NGO The Nature Conservancy, by investing just €3.6 per capita in tree planting, cities could save between 11,000 and 37,000 lives per year. Of course, and I agree with you, trees must not substitute for other atmospheric remediation strategies or, of course, CO2 reduction; nevertheless, they are a powerful means of purifying air and can therefore be a tool among others in the fight against global warming. Minister, has this lead been studied by the federal government? Indeed, the latter has many properties spread across the country. In your opinion, would it be appropriate to start a large-scale tree planting operation on these trees when this proves possible in order to participate in our level of air purification? If so, and according to your estimates, minister, on what scale could this project be achieved and what budget would be required for such an initiative?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u36	Mr President, I thank you for your question because tree planting is indeed an element that can have a very beneficial effect in the fight against air pollution, particularly in urban areas. This theme was also discussed at the CFDD conference (the Federal Council for Sustainable Development) under the title "Biodiversity for sustainable development". The conference was held on 22 March 2019 and during the conference, two avenues for Belgium's post-2020 commitments for COP 15 of the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) in 2020 were highlighted. One of these concerns the use of biodiversity in cities not only to improve air quality but also to provide a solution for adaptation to climate change, to set up green grids to link species populations and to provide space for resourcing to the population. I fully agree with you that the federal state has an exemplary role to play in this matter, although this subject, I must point out, falls primarily within the regional competence of land-use planning and forestry, in terms of air quality and also climate. Nevertheless, the Régie des Bâtiments – which depends on the federal government – is one of the public companies that are partners in the BeBiodiversity strategy that I launched two years ago. Although we are in day-to-day business, the CFDD will soon take on the post-2020 commitments for the next CBD. His working group "Biodiversity" led him to contact the Régie des Bâtiments to further develop the technical consideration not only of biodiversity, but also of climate, health and product policy. An investigation is therefore under way, but it goes beyond your question of planting trees. I believe it is important to identify integrated federal solutions that address the major challenges we face in terms of air quality, climate change and biodiversity loss. As you mentioned, trees should not, of course, be a substitute for other strategies to clean up air or reduce carbon emissions. It is therefore essential, first and foremost, to continue and increase our efforts to prevent polluting emissions in urban areas, in particular by acting on mobility and buildings. To intervene in these areas, the Federal State shares with the Regions very important levers such as taxation, railways and product policy. I would like to add that I will talk to the Régie to see what federal properties we could consider sequential tree plantings. It's part of a whole. In any case, I will have a clear view of what we can do. I will therefore be able to answer you just as precisely in the coming weeks. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u37	Minister, thank you for your proactive response and I hope that the next full-fledged government, which I also call for, will take this issue into account. Such actions are part of the concrete actions that can be accomplished hic and nunc, without being locked in an agenda at the distant end of the day. To cite the example of my colleague Philippe Goffin, he has acted decisively in favour of planting trees in his commune and region. As members of the Climate Coalition say, the main objectives in terms of environmental protection must not exclude simpler actions whose addition can have a beneficial effect. We see this here with the issue of air pollution, which is in fact a matter of regional jurisdiction, but to which the federal government can provide answers. In the end, it's the same air we all breathe. If I may say so, let's not saw the branch we're sitting on.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u38	Mr President, I do not want to undermine the morale of this committee, but Belgium is a real hub for the illegal trade in wildlife and derived products, such as ivory and reptiles. The 18th international conference to regulate international trade in endangered animal and plant species has just taken place in Geneva at the end of August. Madam Minister, I wonder about Belgium's position at this last international conference. The elephant is on the red list of endangered species. The elephant population has decreased by at least 50% over the last three generations. Today, there would be less than 50,000 left in the wild. Has Belgium advocated a strengthening of plans to combat the role of each country in the illegal trade in ivory? Regarding pangolin, more than 20 kg of pangolin scales were seized in the first half of 2019 at Zaventem airport. What was Belgium's position on this particular species? With regard to illegal trafficking in Vietnam, which is now a hub for all products from endangered species, why could the international conference not lead to the implementation of the CITES Convention in that country? Finally, several associations, including WWF, have already called on Belgium to draw up an action plan. If I am not wrong – and I would like your confirmation – there is still no Belgian action plan to implement the CITES Convention. When could this action plan emerge, in particular to create a single point for the Convention in Belgium and to strengthen intermediate contacts to better train customs?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u39	Mr President, Belgium, together with the other countries of the European Union, fully supports the strict implementation of the National Ivory Action Plans. The countries to draw up such plans were selected through the Elephant trade information system (ETIS) report. The action plan is designed to address issues of concern. The COP has also linked the implementation of these action plans to the resolution on the implementation of the Convention, which will allow compliance measures to be imposed on countries that do not comply with the agreements. Finally, Belgium is a member of sub-groups and has also contributed financially to the development of the system which enables these conventions to take action. For your second question, in fact, Belgium is unfortunately a transit plate. You should know that when I took office, few inspectors were able to control the arrivals of plant or animal materials. Thanks to funds that the government allowed me to use on my own tape, I was able to ensure that 8 full times were allocated. We are now much more able to control. In the minutes of the questions and answers of the past legislature, you have read that, since they took office, the inspectors have done much more checks and allowed better compliance with international conventions. We are making every effort to intercept illegal shipments, both for pangolin and for ivory or other illegal goods. In cases of major seizures, the CITES cell contacts the country of origin in order to have a further investigation carried out on the senders of the consignment. When I have the opportunity to diplomatically protect biodiversity, I do not hesitate to do so. COPs and all international meetings are ideal places to do so. Several times – still recently in Monaco – I have contacted representatives of countries of origin to try to understand how their control system works and try to connect the controllers of these countries with those of our system so that they can coordinate themselves. If their systems do not match ours, if there is no standard assessment model for certification or if we do not understand it, we may be wrong, even if sometimes everything is done correctly in the country of origin. In many cases, too, if one does not have a home with these countries, one can miss problematic cargoes. I will still have the opportunity to meet my colleagues. I do this all the more easily since the inspector who worked in the administration became a collaborator of my office. So we are really in direct contact to ensure that these links between countries are created as they progress, with the clear hope that this will continue. On your third question, Vietnam has been identified by ETIS, which is a sub-working group. It poses a problem as a destination country for the rhinoceros horn. That is why Vietnam has a specific action plan to address this problem. The European Union and Belgium – on its behalf and as a member of the European Union – reported that while progress had been made in implementing this plan, they also urged the introduction of complementary measures and increased attention to the identification of organised criminal gangs and the need to improve collaboration between the different national authorities. Vietnam will have to report on this issue by October 2021. With regard to your fourth question on the CITES cell, it will transmit concrete information to Customs so that their risk analyses and controls can also be adapted to the decisions taken at the COP. The assignment of people and means to customs, however, falls within the competence of my colleague minister in charge of finance. It is not just the Environment DG, there is also the customs administration. My services are fully available to provide specific information on CITES or to advise on possible seizures and participation in European and international operations. One might add that since 2015, Belgium, at my request, is part of the Steering Committee of the African Elephant Fund, which funds projects to conserve the African elephant. Every year, Belgium contributes to the financing of a system for the exchange of information on trade in fauna and flora in Europe and Africa. We have also supported a project since 2017 to provide scientific support for the control of CITES regulations concerning afrormosia, which is a tropical wood species and one of the main species of Central African wood placed on the international market. Unfortunately, we are one of the main importers of this wood in the European Union. Finally, the strengthening of the inspection team at the end of 2017 can be used to strengthen the control of CITES legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u40	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. This has not been discussed, but one of the avenues for action is this action plan that the European Union has already had since 2016. Apparently, this would not yet be the case for Belgium, if I understand your answer. I believe that this is really one of the ways forward in the fight against illegal trade in wildlife.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u41	Good morning, Madam Minister. On Monday, September 2, you were present at the signing of a long-term contract between the State-owned Qatar Petrolium company, through its subsidiary Qatar Terminal Limited, with the Belgian gas system operator Fluxys. This contract provides for the reservation of the capacity of the Fluxys LNG terminal to Zeebrugge between 2023 and 2044 to this company. What is the maintenance cost of this Fluxys terminal? How do you judge the import of Qatari gas until 2044 with Belgium's ambition to be carbon neutral for 2050? I am asking this question, in particular, because no later than the day before yesterday we received the Climate Committee, which reminded us that the objectives of the National Energy-Climate Plan are insufficient in relation to the European objectives and the Paris Agreement and that they have clearly called for a halt to any investment in fossil fuel infrastructure. Does our country have a long-term strategy for a transition from natural gas to ecological alternatives? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u42	Mr President, I have a reply entirely in Dutch, but I will translate it immediately, cursively. First of all, it should be noted that Fluxys is a private company and that as minister I have no competence to intervene in the decision-making bodies of this company. The activities of Fluxys LNG LNG LNG terminal, which is a wholly owned subsidiary of Fluxys Belgium, are regulated by CREG. Tariffs and access rules are approved by the Commission. In this capacity and in accordance with the rules laid down by CREG, the charges are charged and apply to access to the Fluxys Belgium transport network. You know that in Germany there was a nuclear shutdown in 2022. Ten remaining GW (gigawatts) of nuclear power will be closed around 2022 in Germany, while Germany has a nuclear capacity of 30 GW and there is also a coal and lignite release plan planned for 2038. In total, 53 GW of production capacity will disappear in Germany. In the Netherlands, you also have electricity that is produced at 4.6 GW by five coal-fired power plants. These will be closed by 2030. In France, you also have a partial phase-out of nuclear power plants, which aims to eliminate 12 to 13 GW of nuclear power generation by 2035. The gas supplied via Zeebrugge is therefore in the first position to replace the outgoing capacity. There are no 50,000 possibilities. While increasing renewable energy everywhere, including in our country, we obviously have to choose an energy that some call "transitional energy". But it is known that this also has effects on CO2 emissions, fine particulates and NOx (nitrogen oxide). At the same time, initiatives are being taken to green through the addition of biomethane (green gas) and to capture CO2. So you have two techniques: make sure to produce green gas and capture CO2 as much as possible. Fluxys is very active in these techniques, particularly in partnership with the Colruyt group and the port of Ghent. Today, Fluxys has already facilitated the existence in Flanders of a register for green gas, biomethane, and has participated in the fact that there is a real stimulated market for green gas. In Belgium, there are different competences in this area. As I said earlier in response to the exchange of views on the National Energy-Climate Plan, institutionally, different competences are divided between the federal and regional levels. Both the Regions and the federal government can have hydrogen skills. Structured consultation and the exchange of information between the different entities is absolutely necessary, as is the case with many subjects. This is why, in 2018, under the leadership of my administration and the ENOVER-CONCERE Group (the administrative, information and working platform that brings together the regional and federal energy and climate administrations), it was decided to set up a working group on storage and hydrogen where the administrations concerned are represented. In 2019, the national ENOVER group also presented a discussion paper on hydrogen. It deals in particular with the opportunities in this area and the possible roles of green gases in the transition and decarbonisation of our energy production in Belgium and for our industry. This energy can contribute to our climate and energy goals for improving air quality. Each sector and stakeholder was consulted in this context. At the moment, in agreement with colleagues in the Regions and the various sectors, we are examining how to develop and coordinate a comprehensive policy in Belgium in this area. That being said, the success of our energy transition can only be achieved through the combination of several vectors and energy sources. The Energy Transition Fund I have set up contributes to the financing of innovative projects and technologies to reduce CO2 emissions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u43	Madam Minister, thank you for your explanation. I see that the reflection is under way. The question is what we are going to do with all the natural gas supply infrastructure. Is your vision to transform it for organic gas or is it going to invest in other renewable forms of energy production? One is not against the other. In our view, this gas pipeline infrastructure will have to be abandoned and no longer need to be invested in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u44	Madam Minister, at the beginning of the year, the Nemo link was activated (high voltage cable connecting Great Britain and Belgium through the North Sea floor) to allow the import of more electricity from other energy markets, if necessary. The rationale you provided for the lack of strategic reserve over the past winter points, among other things, to this Nemo link as a solution to the problem of future deficits. The United Kingdom is, according to my figures, a net importer of electricity. Today, the British import 7% of their electricity and by 2025 they are expected to import up to 20% of their electricity. As a result, the decline in British production capacity raises questions about the confidence that one might have in the possibility of importing electricity from Great Britain to fill our deficits. Minister, how many megawatts could Belgium import as much as possible from Britain this winter? What impact could a no deal have on electricity prices for Belgian families? What would be the impact on deliveries via Nemo? How will the federal government ensure that the price of electricity negotiated by the Nemo link will not explode? How can it guarantee that a planned price increase will not be charged to the Belgian consumer?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u45	Mr President, your questions are crucial and very specific. I have already had the opportunity to talk about this on many occasions, but we are currently in a new configuration. I propose that you present a condensation of the replies already given on this subject, which I will send you by e-mail. I can tell you that our country is largely interconnected. Our geographical position is very favourable in Western Europe. Traditionally, we have been interconnected to France for many years and to Holland. Elia's development plan provided for an interconnection this time with Great Britain. We formalized it in December 2018 and took office in January 2019. By the end of this year, we will have direct interconnection with Germany. Like the one with Great Britain and the one we have with neighbouring countries, it revolves around a capacity of 1,000 MW in both directions. All interconnections can deliver this capacity when the country of origin does not need this electricity for itself, i.e. when it is in overproduction. When all these countries in the same geographical location are subjected to rather harsh winter conditions that remain for a significant period of time – ten days or more – then it becomes difficult to fully operate the interconnections. That is why my firm, my administration and I always say that we must be careful with these interconnections. They easily allow energy to move from one place to another and to limit the development of energy production on our soil. But once a country needs the energy it produces on its own territory and is able to provide that energy to its people even under harsh winter conditions that continue in time, it is clear that we can no longer benefit from this electricity. So we too must ask ourselves the question of what is the minimum minimum infrastructure on our soil capable of generating the electricity we also need in those times. You're telling me that Britain is a net importer of electricity. Today, the English import 7% of their electricity and it is expected by 2025 that this will increase to 20% of their needs. In the present state of the answer I have before me, I do not have access to such figures. I'll try to find out. Where do these figures come from? I'm going to indaguer further to see what they really fit. You also say that British production tends to decline. However, because of all the information in my possession, I do not share this impression at all. For example, Britain is building a nuclear power plant. In addition, in its energy mix, it operates coal-fired power plants and has abundant renewable energy sources. So I don't know where you got your information. As far as Brexit is concerned, I will gladly repeat to you that there are no difficulties in the exchange of electricity. Whatever Brexit – contractual, hard or without agreement – it will have no impact in this area. For its part, the federal government has taken all necessary steps to maintain the current framework for electricity exchanges, no matter what. I come to a final clarification of the models used by the system operator Elia to calculate the strategic reserve requirements. Perhaps you attended this morning's exchange of views with Elia, CREG and my administration. When, according to a process governed by law, Elia is required to undertake a needs assessment for the coming winter, it is based on probabilistic studies that aggregate in software the winters of the previous thirty years. On the basis of this long-term review of the past, a probabilistic projection is developed until the entry into winter, so that it is managed almost eight days in advance, in accordance with the weather exercises. We therefore assess our concrete needs each time, especially in times of stress as we experienced during last winter. In short, with these needs to be met, probabilistic studies carry out assessments of interconnections and our ground-based production capacity. Once we enter the winter, we do the same assessments in a shorter period of time, in concrete terms, to see every day how many possibilities there are to receive electricity through the interconnections. In this regard, little detail, if you continue to be one of the fan members of this commission, it is important that you know that Germany has not yet completed its plan for the transfer of electricity from the north of the country to the south, i.e. wind fields from the North Sea to the industrial parks of the south. To transfer this abundant electricity that is produced in the north of her country, it passes through the interconnections between her and Holland to take out this electricity through the north and it makes her return through the south via France. This results in congestion at borders that do not allow us to benefit from this electricity. That is why it is essential that we finally have this direct link. Of course, this loop flows problem will have to be addressed, but these are European issues that we can come back to, if you wish. We need to continue the work so that we have this direct interconnection capacity with Germany, which will allow us to have 1000 MW of additional capacity with Germany at the end of this year, I hope. More information can be found in Elias' public report on her website at page 126. This is her probabilistic study of the next winter. With regard to your last two questions, it is important to know that electricity prices are determined by trade between market participants. They are the result of supply and demand. It's the first base. You're talking about the guarantee of electricity prices in relation to Nemo interconnection and you're wondering how the federal government could protect consumers from an increase in electricity. The question is much broader than to focus solely on interconnections. The electricity supply in Belgium is not only based on interconnections. You just understood it through my explanation. The prices are related to the fact that if you have not planned on your soil a production fleet that is robust enough to allow you, in the event of a severe winter, not to have to look for electricity that would not be sent to you by the interconnections, then you are looking for what everyone is looking for at the same time, that is, a product that is rare and therefore becoming expensive. Then you fight less well against rising prices. This is the answer to the question: the first thing to do, in my view, is to make our production fleet in Belgium robust, which is why we have launched all the mechanics of the capacity compensation mechanism.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u46	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I am indeed a member of this committee, but a new one. I have a lot to learn. Thank you for your explanation. The figures were in the press. If there were to be better numbers, I'd be interested to have them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u47	In which article were you able to consult these figures? I'm interested in consulting them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u48	I don't have it here, but I'll pass it on to you. Your answer explains the importance of the national production plan and does not rely too much on interconnections even if they are useful. I'll take note of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u49	Mr President, Minister, we read in the press that you are preparing a royal decision for the approval of superethanol, the so-called E85. However, the effectiveness of these biofuels is under discussion. According to a study by the European Commission, bioethanol made from wheat emits only 3% less if the production of bioethanol itself is included. The production of biofuels from maize is also so energy intensive that it gives almost no CO2 advantage over fossil fuels. In addition, energy crops also compete with food production, and that cannot be the intention. I'm not alone in this concern. On Monday we came to listen to the interparliamentary meeting of the Climate Coalition. They also expressed their concern about the introduction of E85. They complain about the lack of transparency in decision-making. The introduction of E85 is not in the National Energy and Climate Plan. The Climate Coalition calls for the adoption of E85 to be suspended as it is not an effective climate measure and poses a threat to food security. In addition, there is the Federal Council for Sustainable Development which has recommended reducing the use of biofuels based on food raw materials. That recommendation was also included in the 2018 Interparliamentary Resolution in preparation for COP24. I'll come to my questions. Do you confirm that, in the event of urgency and by royal decision, the fuel E85 will be imported into our country? Does the government have the legitimacy in current cases to introduce this in a matter of urgency and through a royal decision, since Belgium's energy targets for 2020 have been known for years and the subject is controversial? With what legitimacy do you go against the recommendation of the 2018 Interparliamentary Resolution in preparation for COP24? Have you asked for the advice of the Federal Council for Sustainable Development? What prospects do you have for the future production of biofuels in our country? What impact will this have, including on water consumption in agriculture? What guarantees do you have that this measure will not lead to further deforestation and food scarcity, both here and in the South? Finally, can you guarantee that the crops intended for the production of superethanol will not be grown on fields where previously tropical rainforest stood?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u50	You had two questions. You gave a summary?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u51	I did put them together. I hope this isn't a problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u52	Mr President, I also had the impression or the certainty that E85 will eventually destroy the Amazon forest. I was approached by a number of Flemings who told me that if they had the suitable car and if ethanol-enriched petrol could also be obtained at the gas station, they could also use cheap and environmentally friendly fuel here. I told them we're working on a KB. Mrs Marghem is responsible for the regulatory framework. I will hear from you later, Madam Secretary, what is the state of the KB. We are talking about ethanol from sugar beet, corn and wheat. To mix all this into a new biofuels crusade I find a little cheap. It's different every month. My technical question is, of course, also limited to 7%. Will the contribution of the first generation of biofuels, up to 7%, also apply to E85? Of course, it must still be interesting enough to market this fuel in our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u53	Mrs Daems, Mr Ravyts, I will only give my answers in French. Mr. Ravyts, your question came out of time. I will therefore not be able to answer precisely that question. However, we have accepted it and will send you a written reply at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u54	That'd be nice.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u55	The purpose of the Order is to allow the placing on the Belgian market of petrol E85 following the publication of the Belgian standard NBN EN 15293. This is not an obligation. The maximum ethanol level (85%) is likely to be limited in a first period, taking into account technical requirements. The maximum energy limit of 7 % has entered into force for biofuels produced from seeds and other starchy plants, sugars and oilseeds primarily grown for energy purposes on agricultural land. This is the very precise definition, which answers some of your questions. I'm referring you to first-generation biofuels. This limit applies to all biofuels blended with fossil fuels – including gasoline and diesel – that are used annually. It should be noted that, in order to meet the obligation to incorporate biofuels, registered oil companies can only obtain recognition for qualified and certified sustainable bioethanol. The criteria which they must meet, in accordance with a voluntary scheme which is approved, are laid down in Directive 2009/28/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 April 2009 on the promotion of the use of energy produced from renewable sources. These criteria take into account both biodiversity and greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u56	You said that there will be farming on agricultural land, but it has not become clear to me where it is located. Can you answer that?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u57	This is not specified in the response that has been prepared. So I'll answer you later. I'll ask my administration. If your question is whether we are going to make a major contribution to the transport of products grown elsewhere, or on the contrary mobilising land from us that could be used for something else – this is the big debate – this is obviously the problem. That is why the criteria of the directive are so strict. If the question you are asking me is, in Belgium, what are the obligations with regard to the source of raw materials, I will reply in writing at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u58	You may answer me in writing. Mr Ravyts speaks of a crusade, but you must not be blind to the disadvantages of the production of superethanol. Investing in E85 we find a fake solution for the climate. It is important to invest in real solutions. For us, the solution is the development of truly renewable energy. I am thinking, for example, of hydrogen. We therefore call, Madam Minister, for your intention to approve E85 to be dropped.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u59	The only thing that wasn't clear to me was whether or not the KB was finally approved?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u60	I don't think so.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u61	Minister, I would like to ask you about next week's Climate Action Summit in New York. This meeting aims to put around the table the main actors of the economic and political spheres. This summit will take place exactly one year before the deadline for strengthening the commitments made by States in accordance with the Paris Agreements. This is therefore an important moment in international climate governance. UN Secretary-General António Guterres recently stressed the importance of undertaking bolder and much more ambitious climate action in order to halt the increase in emissions by 2020 and drastically reduce emissions. He also personally asked leaders to do "more than fine speeches" and "come to New York with concrete plans to achieve these goals". He also stressed the rapid implementation of concrete actions such as the elimination of fossil fuel subsidies. Minister, what message will Belgium bring next week to New York? Will you be able to present a revised, updated and ambitious plan to achieve the global goals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u62	Mrs Guterres, the United Nations Climate Action Summit to be held on 23 September at the initiative of Mr Guterres will indeed have to mark – his speech bears this sign – a turning point in the process of raising the level of ambition in the world. This is an absolute necessity if we are to achieve the goals that the international community set out in 2015 in the context of the Paris Agreement. The extent of the gap between the current climate plans and the efforts to achieve the objectives set is of great concern. The main message that Belgium will seek to pass on to the United Nations Climate Action Summit on 23 September is our country's willingness to engage in this process of raising ambitions at both global and European levels. Belgian climate policy is rooted in European climate policy. As you know, Belgium expresses its view from the point of view of the European Union; it acts strongly with its administration in this context. Our country is in favour of a revision of the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40 per cent by 2030, compared to 1990 levels, through internal policy, taking into account the additional collective efforts that will be needed and actions already undertaken by all countries to achieve the Paris Agreement objectives. As a reminder, this objective has been defined by the European Union in the context of the Paris Agreement in the form of "NDC", a contribution determined at national level. For further details, I refer you to my answer to a specific question you have recently asked about Belgium's level of ambition, namely question No 55000309C. I welcome the intentions of the new President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, to open the debate on strengthening the EU's climate ambition and I hope that Belgium will be able to play a proactive and constructive role in these discussions. In the context of the United Nations Climate Summit, various concrete initiatives, to which countries may join, will be proposed in the following nine areas of action: mitigation; social and political drivers; youth and public mobilization; energy transition; industrial transition; infrastructure-city-actions; nature-based solutions; resilience and adaptation; climate finance and carbon pricing. The announcement of these initiatives is still under way, as the various governments are in the process of studying the issue and working together to determine what initiatives Belgium will support at the summit. As far as the long term is concerned, I should like to inform you that Belgium is endeavouring to move forward the European talks that are currently being conducted on the vision to be defined in the long term and is making every effort to enable the rapid adoption of a long-term European strategy that would aim at climate neutrality, in accordance with the Paris Agreement, which would be based on an in-depth analysis of the environmental, economic and social impacts of emission reduction trajectories, and which would also be consistent in the wake of the latest scientific advances, in particular the IPCC special report on global warming. Belgium is in the process of developing a long-term strategy that respects the objectives of the Paris Agreement and is in line with the long-term European strategy that it will have to submit to the European Commission before 1 January 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u63	Madam Minister, thank you. I will not fail to read the answer to my question No 55000309C. Belgium is indeed in a somewhat special period, that of the composition of governments. I think, however, that you have enough luggage to carry an ambitious message there on behalf of Belgium. I am thinking, among other things, of the interparliamentary resolution adopted last year by all the parliaments of Belgium. Belgium is still the home of young people's marches for the climate. It is essential that political representatives also represent this youth that calls for change. The interparliamentary meeting that took place yesterday at the invitation of the Climate coalition was very much in this direction. More than sixty people were present, with speeches by the various Members and group leaders, all of whom were in the direction of increasing ambitions. Even if we do not always agree on the means, we find ourselves on the objectives. A debriefing moment is planned in the Climate Commission soon. I look forward to hearing what you have done for Belgium and the concrete means on which you have agreed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u64	Madam Minister, on 22 August, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte announced their common desire to strengthen climate action on a European scale. The Chancellor has therefore voted in favour of a 55% reduction in greenhouse gases in the European Union by 2030. The Netherlands has set as its target a reduction of 49% by 2030. Belgium, for its part, is content with a target of 35% for the same deadline. My question will therefore be very simple: will you join this movement in favour of an increase in European ambitions?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u65	You and I, the Member, understood that the questions followed and that the second could have been asked in the first place, but it's no big deal. Perhaps this will result in repetition. In any case, what matters is the content. At the European Council in October 2014, the Member States of the European Union committed themselves to achieving a collective target of reduction of at least 40% by 2050 from 1990 levels. This target will be set in the ETS sectors (- 43%) and not ETS (- 30%) compared to 2005. The one assigned to Belgium was a reduction of 35%. It should be stressed that we have committed ourselves to such a reduction at a time when no global climate agreement has yet been reached. More than a year after this decision of the European Council in October 2014, we were able to obtain this historic agreement in Paris, through COP21. The target of -41% for 2030 is also part of the European Union's commitment under the Paris Agreement. It is included in the contribution determined at the national level of the European Union. In this context, Belgium has always stressed that the five-year cycle of ambition of the Paris Agreement is a key element of the new international climate regime to gradually raise the level of ambition. The European Union has played an important role in the conceptualisation and negotiation of this regime. It is therefore essential for the Union to be faithfully involved in this process while making a positive contribution to the international momentum generated by the Paris Agreement. For Belgium, it has always been clear that the determined contribution of the European Union could be reviewed. Thus, in the context of the Talanoa Dialogue, we have adopted the Benelux Talanoa Declaration with the Netherlands and Luxembourg, in which we call on the European Union to review its contribution at the current national level by 2020. I would like to recall that the October 2014 European Council also expressed itself for a target of 27% renewable energy shares and an increase in energy efficiency of 27%. Meanwhile, in the negotiations on the directives that have anchored these energy objectives in the European legislative acquis, the ambition of renewable energy and energy efficiency objectives has been revised upwards. Renewables increased from 27 per cent to 32 per cent and energy efficiency increased from 27 per cent to 32.5 per cent. We are now aiming for a 32% share of renewable energy in 2030, all together, and an increase in energy efficiency to 32.5%. According to the European Commission, these enhanced targets combined with other adopted legislation, such as the one on the functioning of the market stability reserve under the emissions trading scheme, already allow the European Union to achieve a 45% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. De facto, the increased requirements for greenhouse gas reductions and energy efficiency in the directives made the third result – the reduction of greenhouse gases – more demanding. Such a reduction should therefore now be included as a reference. We should say that when we discuss our level of ambition for 2030. The trajectories proposed by the European Commission in its analyses of the European long-term strategy also reach reductions in 2030 higher than those set out in our current formal commitments. In its resolution of 20 December 2018 to reposition Belgium in the climate debate, this Parliament called on the government to subscribe to a European greenhouse gas emission reduction target of at least 55% by 2030 and at least 95% by 2050 compared to 1990 emissions. The federal government defended this level of ambition in the internal negotiations at Belgian level on this subject, in particular with regard to the EU's climate strategy for 2050. In this context, I welcome the statements made by the new President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, who advocates climate neutrality at European level in 2050 and a reduction of emissions by at least 50% by 2030, while expressing the willingness to propose a plan to increase the 2030 target by 55%. I hope that we will soon be able to initiate the debate on strengthening the European Union's climate ambition by revising its determined contribution and that Belgium will be able to play a proactive and constructive role in these discussions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u66	Minister, thank you for this very comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u67	Madam Minister, in Belgium, degressivity is applied to the offshore surcharge on our energy bill. But Europe has turned a blind eye to us and warned us that we should only do so for energy-intensive companies. Have you taken steps to put us in order, or will you? What are your intentions?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u68	Mr Verduyckt, on 20 July 2016, the offshore degressivity mechanism was informally notified to the European Commission through pre-notification in the light of European State aid rules. Afterwards, two requests for additional information dated 22 September 2016 and 26 April 2017 were answered by the Belgian authorities by letters dated 7 March 2017 and 22 May 2017. On 2 July 2018, a letter was subsequently received from the European Commission stating, inter alia, the view that the capping of the offshore tax is not acceptable. On 23 November 2018, a draft law reforming the offshore degressivity mechanism was submitted to the Council of Ministers, inviting the Council of Ministers to agree to the reform and to authorise the Minister of Energy to formally notify the reform to the European Commission. However, the decision was postponed to another meeting of the Council of Ministers. The EUR 250 000 target, rejected by the European Commission, cannot be maintained. All megawatts consumed must be subject to offshore overload. In order to make support for the production of renewable electricity in the North Sea compatible with EU guidelines, the Council of Ministers had mandated CREG. The Council of Ministers had given me a personal mandate and my terms of reference gave me a clear roadmap: to preserve the purchasing power of households, the competitiveness of SMEs and large enterprises, and the state budget. That's what I've called the triangulation of the circle several times. At some point, someone has to pay. Without touching the state budget, without weighing up consumers' or businesses' bills, it's complicated. It is necessary to find a new organisation within an envelope in order to best distribute the offshore overload, to preserve the competitiveness of companies compared to those of neighbouring countries. The CREG has managed to find a solution that respects the guidelines of the European Union while saving 24 million from the state budget. This solution did not impact households and protected the competitiveness of SMEs and electro-intensive enterprises. In accordance with European guidelines, where a company cannot dispense with a high level of electricity consumption and the cost of electricity represents a significant part of its costs, that company can be protected. It may be exempted from part of the invoice. Only those who are not electro-intensive cannot benefit. But there is a grey group: these are companies which do not fall into the category defined by Europe but which are large consumers of electricity. Unfortunately, some partners feel that their consumption is excessive. Since it was not possible to find a consensus to protect all companies, it was necessary to explore other avenues than those proposed by CREG. A reduction of up to 85% for enterprises has been envisaged. However, these avenues offered less legal certainty. We must therefore continue to negotiate with the European Commission. The last attempt to negotiate took place at the end of last year, when a draft law on the reform of the offshore degression mechanism was proposed to the Council of Ministers asking me to notify the European Commission. There was still no consensus, since for some partners, charging large companies almost ten times less than households remained unacceptable. A big social discussion is behind this problem. When parks in the North Sea produce at full capacity, households will have to pay EUR 11 per megawatt per hour. I would remind you that if we had not negotiated with offshore parks to reduce the support that had to be paid for in a concession system and to take 4 billion euros from them, consumers would have had to pay 17 euros in excess. The economy is €6 per megawatt/hour. This means that whenever implemented in our renewable energy mix, there is pressure on the bill as you see that in the energy bill a large 30% of it relates to support for renewable energy. Today, that is, the day my answer is formulated, the offshore overload is 7 euros per megawatt consumed. Currently, electricity-intensive companies are still in the same system as Europe refuses to accept in the long term and are exempt beyond EUR 250 000. Of course, the government in day-to-day affairs is not in a position to finally arbitrate this issue, which will have to be resolved as a matter of priority by the next government. If the next government wants to move away from the guidelines and the solution set out by the CREG that scrupulously followed the European rules, it will be necessary to negotiate with the European Commission, which will not be easy since the deadlines laid down in the guidelines expired on 31 December 2018. I would like to point out as a shade that the European Commission is fully aware of the Belgian situation and its complexity, knowing that the government has been in business since 21 December 2018. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u69	It was a short question with a very long answer on a problem that has not yet been resolved, I understand. If I have understood you correctly, the CREG proposal is there, but you cannot offer a definitive solution because the government is in progress. We will continue to follow up on the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u70	CREG made a proposal that followed the guidelines, but it was not accepted. Had we followed the CREG, we would have been in time and time and we could have made a decision if there had been an agreement in full exercise since we had to position ourselves on this issue by 31 December 2018 at the latest. The government became a minority on December 21, 2018 and we remained in this situation of non-agreement. Today, other avenues are on the table but they do not necessarily follow the advice of the CREG and will in any case provoke the need to renegotiate with the European Commission. We will come back to that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u71	Mr President, after addressing the question to Mr Reynders, I understood that it was the minister who dealt with the renegotiation of this treaty. My question concerns the Energy Charter Treaty. Minister, on 15 July the Council of the European Union mandated the European Commission to start negotiations to modernise this Treaty. Few people know that, but the Treaty on the Energy Charter, of which Belgium is a member, is currently incompatible with the objectives set out in the Paris Agreement. Recently, it was read in the press, the Luxembourg Minister for Energy, Mr Claude Turmes, announced the Luxembourg Government's willingness to put on the agenda of the next Council of Energy Ministers of 24 September the construction of a coalition of climate-sensitive countries. Minister, do we have a specific agenda for the negotiation process to date? If not, will you ask the Commission? What are the chances that these negotiations will succeed, bearing in mind that, as with any treaty, unanimity of all signatories is compulsory? Do you think that the negotiating directives are sufficient to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement, which is essential, knowing that the end of the protection of investments in fossil fuels is not part of the European Commission's negotiating mandate? This means that Belgium, for some of its policy choices to protect the environment, could be attacked before arbitration tribunals by investors in the field of fossil fuels. Do you intend to include Belgium in the climate-responsible coalition process launched by the Luxembourg Minister? In view of the climate emergency, what position will Belgium take if it appears that in six months' time the process is not moving in line with the mandate given by the Council of the European Union?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u72	Mr President, honourable Member, the start of negotiations is expected to take place on 12 December 2019 in Albania, since it is this country that now holds the presidency of the Energy Charter Conference. This will take place immediately after the Annual Ministerial Conference. The intention is that the agenda and the subject groups for the negotiations will be decided on. In the meantime, these have been prepared since the beginning of 2018 in a working group on modernisation, which has been set up for this purpose. A permanent sub-working group on strategy exists at the international level, in which Belgium is actively represented by experts from the SPF Economy. The negotiations would then take place in cycles of four to five days every three months. The precise dates have not yet been set and would be agreed at this session on 12 December 2019 in Albania. All Contracting Parties must accept the changes to be made to the modernization. There must be a consensus. If there is no consensus on a particular subject, however, a compromise must be found or the article in question cannot be changed. As always in the field of international law, we operate on the basis of consensus. The negotiating mandate given to the European Commission by the Member States of the European Union states that the Paris Agreement, both in its section "General principles and objectives" and in the section "Sustainable development and corporate social responsibility", is missing the end of the sentence. I will consult the Dutch version of the answer. The negotiated outcome must comply with this mandate. The aim of the European Commission is to respond to the need for modernisation and the protection of investments under the Energy Charter. That's really the main objective. Belgium will join in that direction. Belgium has always had the will to modernise this Treaty, and in particular, within the scope of the Treaty, to ensure the protection of investment by ensuring that this modernisation exercise is not used to broaden the scope of application... The answer is not consistent, please excuse me. I'm going on. For investment protection, the modernisation exercise should not be too broad, but should focus on renewable energy and energy efficiency. International organizations with expertise in this area – such as IEA (International Energy Agency) and Irena (International Renewable Energy Agency) – are partners in the Convention secretariat, which mobilizes resources in this negotiation. Secondly, Belgium is very aware of the need to change this policy at the international level, paying particular attention to climate issues, including climate change. This response has been provided to us in the raw state – you realize – by the Department of Foreign Affairs. In fact, you initially asked Minister Reynders the question. If you consider this answer insufficient or if you would like more details, I will seek them to complete it. I myself consider that it remains at the stage of generality.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u73	Madam Minister, thank you. I am very happy to receive a written reply. This treaty makes us vulnerable. Belgium will, of course, make every effort to achieve these objectives and to fulfil the commitments made under the Paris Agreements. It is important to see that this Treaty on the Energy Charter makes us vulnerable and needs to be renegotiated. If this proves impossible, will Belgium be able to withdraw from it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u74	Mr President, Minister, last Monday the FairFin organisation announced that Belgian banks are investing more than USD 6 billion in companies that commit deforestation and human rights violations in the Amazon forest. Recent research indicates that soy and cattle farms, such as the multinational Cargill, are involved in the recent criminal forest fires in the Amazon forest. By providing billions of dollars in loans, insurance and investment, Belgian banks enable the agro-industry to maintain and expand its activities. They thus contribute to the further destruction of the Amazon forest. The worst student of the class is BNP Paribas in which the Belgian State is the largest individual shareholder. The bank has invested more than 3 billion dollars in such companies. My questions are as follows. What measures do you, as Minister for the Environment, take to combat the destruction of the Amazon forest? What environmental and climate policies are you pursuing with regard to the financial sector with regard to sustainable investment? What agreements have been made within the Belgian government to ensure that BNP Paribas and Belfius, a bank owned by the Belgian State, only invest in sustainable projects?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u75	Mr President, Mrs Daems, the answer has been drawn up in French, but I will translate it into Dutch for you. For me, this is a little exercise. I'm not authorized to answer your question. I would like to point out that your question should be addressed to the Minister for the Budget or the Minister for Finance. Moreover, we do not have any competence in foreign territory. So much for my answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u76	Madam Minister, as a minister, you cannot impose stricter requirements so that only sustainable projects can be invested? You can't force this?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u77	That's another question. In the context of the environment, my skills are very strict and are linked to the protection of exotic wood. The commercial importation of these timbers must correspond to very precise criteria set out in the International CITES Convention, to which Belgium adheres. These criteria are monitored by our inspectors in our territory. We cannot therefore control the territory of another State. The sustainable development goals include the protection of biodiversity. I am competent for sustainable development on Belgian territory and not at the international level, for which Alexander De Croo is competent.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u78	I will therefore put my question to Minister De Croo again.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u79	Mr President, Minister, a recent IPCC report warns of the negative impact of a large-scale commitment to bioenergy on global food security. Nevertheless, Belgium wants to focus more on harmful biofuels. In the design of the National Energy and Climate Plan, which was the main topic of our meeting today, Belgium is aiming for an increase of 14 percent in biofuels in 2030, half of which is based on agricultural crops. This goes against the interparliamentary climate resolution that was adopted in 2018 and which was faded to no longer use harmful first-generation biofuels. The federal contribution to the design of the National Energy and Climate Plan has increased to 12.2% of biofuels. Countries like France have decided to stop cataloguing palm oil as biofuel. A survey of European NGOs at the end of last year showed that 87 percent of Belgians do not know that the diesel they fuel contains palm oil, 67 percent are in favour of stopping European aid for mixing palm oil with diesel. Last year, Belgium increased the percentage of biofuels by 2020, without any distinction between biofuels. It imposed a maximum percentage of 7% for food biofuels, but this is significantly above the current level of consumption. My questions are as follows. Firstly, when drawing up the final National Energy and Climate Plan, will you take into account the IPCC report on land use and climate change of August 2019, which warns of the potential negative impact of a large-scale bioenergy deployment on global food security, by opting for a lower overall objective and excluding biofuels from agricultural crops? Secondly, are you considering following the French example and no longer considering harmful polluting biofuels as palm and soya oil as biofuels? Thirdly, how do you explain the difference between the federal and national climate plan design?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u80	Dear colleague, the NEFP target of 14% biofuels in 2030 was achieved after consultation and negotiations between the federal state and the Regions. The draft plan also includes the target of 7% of advanced biofuels by 2030. The PNEC project requires that every two years a study be conducted to assess the technical feasibility of the incorporation objective. This inter-federal study will be carried out for the first time in the first half of 2020 and will make it possible to adjust the rate of incorporation if necessary. Among other things, consideration will be given to environmental integrity and potential conflicts of use. It should also be noted that in order to meet the obligation to incorporate biofuels, registered oil companies can only recognise sustainable biofuels. The criteria laid down for this purpose in Directive 2009/28/EC must be scrupulously respected by these companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic013x.u81	Thank you for your reply, Madam Secretary. It is one of the elements to which we will return in the context of the National Energy and Climate Plan. We will develop these elements further within the framework of our respective positions on these issues.
