ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic075x.u1	Minister, on 4 July, some time ago, Israel again destroyed infrastructure in Zone C of the Palestinian territories, which was also financed by Belgian money. Near Hebron, Israeli troops destroyed three water citernes and at least 2,500 trees, which were part of a Oxfam project. The damage would be more than 75 000 euros. We know that our country has taken the lead in seeking compensation in such cases and that other European countries are following us there. Nor is it the first time Israel has destroyed infrastructure paid with tax money in Zone C. I also put this question to Minister Reynders at the time and he indicated in his reply that other possible steps would be examined in this case. Can you explain what possible steps it would take? Is the government considering any legal action? If so, under what jurisdiction? The International Court of Justice may be a possibility. In the event of Israel's continuing refusal to pay compensation, can it be considered to withhold the amount due by another channel? How many projects co-financed by Belgium are located in Zone C? How many of these are currently threatened by destruction by Israel? How do other countries respond to the destruction of humanitarian projects financed by them? Finally, what is the total amount that Belgium invests directly or indirectly in the Palestinian occupied territories? What percentage is spent in Zone A, Zone B and Zone C?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic075x.u2	Two months ago, Minister, I asked you about the destruction on 4 July of three water reservoirs and 2,500 trees that were part of an Oxfam project funded by Belgian cooperation. Oxfam estimated the damage to be 75,000 euros. At the time, you, together with your colleague in charge of foreign affairs, strongly condemned these demolitions and said that you would ask for explanations and compensation from the Israeli government. Let us recall here that these actions violate international humanitarian law, in particular the Fourth Geneva Convention and several United Nations resolutions! Together with a number of other European countries also involved in these acts, Belgium has repeatedly intervened with Israel in order to put an end to its repeated actions. Minister, have there been repeated requests for compensation since my last intervention? If so, what has been the follow-up by the Israeli government? What about the compensation claimed for projects previously destroyed by the Israeli State, since this case obviously does not constitute a first.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic075x.u3	Colleagues, our investments, both through humanitarian aid and through development cooperation, have been spread across all Palestinian territories, both Gaza and the West Bank, including East Jerusalem, since the signing of the agreement with the PLO in 2001. For humanitarian aid, most of our efforts go to Gaza, where the number of people in need is highest, but also in Zone C, in the West Bank, countless small humanitarian efforts are being made to help the people affected. It can range from water tanks, mobile clinics, animal feed or solar panels to small schools. To this end, we work together with organisations that have a thorough knowledge of the field and the legal framework. We cannot know how many of them are threatened with destruction, for a number of reasons. Firstly, a new military directive extends the authority of the Israeli army, allowing new structures to be destroyed within 96 hours without waiting for a judicial decision on appeal. As a result, we have less insight into the structures or investments that are at risk. Secondly, there has also been an amendment to another military directive from 2015, whereby mobile structures, such as caravans or containers, in which classrooms are set up, can be confiscated without prior warning. The number of destructions is increasing. In 2019, 582 Palestinian properties were destroyed or attacked, resulting in the forced displacement of 848 people. The number of destructions exceeded that of 2017, which was 419. In 2018, there were 459. Of the 582 properties destroyed or affected, 117 had been funded by the donor community. It is not possible to calculate the precise share of Belgian financing, since in most cases it is common funds. Sweden has recently reported a similar destruction, affecting a water reservoir placed by Oxfam, a few kilometres from where the Belgian project was destroyed this summer. Since Minister Reynders' last intervention on this issue, the partners of the West Bank Protection Consortium, the humanitarian mechanism co-financed by the European Union and ten of its Member States, have again sent a formal message to the Israeli authorities on 14 October under the Belgian presidency. Belgium continues to draw attention to actions for damages and restitution at the level of the Security Council. We believe it is important to work with our partners to develop a common approach to this issue. As a result of further demolition work, there is ongoing consultation among West Bank Protection Consortium partners on the next steps.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic075x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You describe the new regulations that have been issued in Israel. That is actually bad news because in the field we are seeing more and more destruction and there is also annexation and such things. So it's really going in the wrong direction. I know that at the time Belgium took the lead in enforcing compensation, together with other European countries. If, however, Minister Reynders has to admit that Israel does not respond positively, then we are blocked. So what's the next step? What else can we do? After all, we cannot leave that blue blue because that is not the end of the matter. That is the message I certainly want to give. I understand that there is a discussion on the steps that can be taken within that consortium, but I would ask that our country take the lead in that. After all, it is incredibly arrogant that projects co-financed with our taxpayers' money are being destroyed and then the letter with the legitimate demand for compensation from the consortium simply ignores it. That is unfair and we must respond to it, legally or financially, with regard to certain flows between Europe and Israel. We need to sanction this kind of behavior, that's the message we want to give.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic075x.u5	Minister, thank you for your answers. The systematic destruction of Israel in the territories – in a structural rather than in a cyclical way – is really a matter of disregard for international law, as has been said, but also of a pure and simple contempt for Belgium. The methods used so far clearly do not bear fruit. Coordination is emerging at European level. I call for a tougher tone in order to be respected in the dialogue with a government that has nothing but contempt for Europeans and for our country.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic075x.u6	Question No 55001042C by Mrs Daems is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic075x.u7	Madam President, Minister, in June 2019, the Global Partnership for Effective Cooperation for Development (GEDC) released its report "Towards more effective development cooperation". This report is part of a joint publication with the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). It presents the results of the monitoring for 2018 of the GPEDC and produces data on the implementation of the four principles of effectiveness agreed in Busan in 2011, namely country ownership, results orientation, inclusive partnerships, transparency and mutual accountability. However, the results for Belgium are not very good. I'm quoting a few of them. With regard to the use of partner country monitoring systems by Belgian cooperation, three of the four indicators decreased between 2016 and 2018. Democratic ownership and alignment with the development priorities of the partner countries appear to have deteriorated in Belgian cooperation since 2016. With regard to transparency, two of the three indicators analysed deteriorated. As for the predictability of the aid, although it increased in 2018, it decreased in the long term. Finally, the share of Belgian aid untied would have increased from 97% to 86%. Minister, my question is simple: how do you explain these figures when aid effectiveness is at the heart of your official development assistance policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic075x.u8	Madam President, Mrs de Laveleye, Belgian development cooperation focuses on fragile countries and post-conflict areas where aid dependence is highest. Chairperson: Els Van Hoof.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic075x.u9	In two homogeneous geographical regions, North and West Africa and the Great Lakes Region, this decision has led Belgium to be ranked as the second most efficient donor in the fight against extreme poverty, according to the new index of the Overseas Development Institute, which takes into account the donor's propensity to concentrate its funding in countries most in need. Government cooperation is, in principle, concentrated on a maximum of three sectors per partner country. The selection of sectors is made in accordance with the principles of alignment and harmonisation on the basis of the ethical priorities of Belgium and the partner country, and in consultation with partner countries and other donors. In each partner country, the Cooperation shall endeavour to contribute to a common donor strategy. Belgian development policy is structured around two central policy axes: the rights-based approach and sustainable economic growth. The political crisis in the DRC and Burundi – two of the most important countries in government cooperation – directly affected the evolution and implementation of our cooperation with them. I have made a number of decisions, including those to limit support to state institutions and to regulate our support for direct support to the population and human rights. This obviously implies that we restrict the part of aid that uses the partner countries' own public financing management system. With regard to the Global Partnership for Effective Development Co-operation (GPEDC) report, I would like to highlight the following points. First of all with respect to transparency, the only reason for the regression of two of the three indicators analysed – Creditor Reporting System and Forward Spending Survey – is the delay in the transmission of data to the OECD Development Assistance Committee. As the responsible team within my administration has been under the pressure of a multitude of new projects and growing demands, it has been strengthened in the meantime. With the increased efficiency expected through the implementation of management instruments, our performance in this area should return to the usual high level. For the new openaid.be site, a second phase of development is underway to improve search options and add information. With regard to the reduction in the share of untied Belgian aid, I would like to point out that the 86 % mentioned in the report are indicated in the scoreboard of the GPEDC website. However, this rate does not relate to the totality of Belgian aid, but only to that provided to the 86 countries which participated in the survey. The full and detailed data from the GPEDC, on the other hand, contain the exact percentage of our untied aid, which remains at a very high level of 96%. With respect to your request for clarification, the DPEG secretariat agreed that the limited scope of the rate that has been published should be more clearly highlighted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic075x.u10	Minister, thank you for these detailed answers. As you pointed out, the Overseas Development Institute's report indicates that Belgium has made the courageous choice to allocate most of its aid to fragile countries. This is indeed a courageous political choice on the part of Belgium. However, this report does not only emphasize effectiveness, as it does not reflect the Busan principles. It is therefore a little restrictive to justify the full effectiveness of our aid. You also mention the openaid.be website. There is still a lot of work to be done if we really want to have full transparency, but it is under way. This tool remains interesting because it is partly peer review and it would be wrong not to give credit to the analysis. We will therefore continue the analysis on 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic075x.u11	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Flahaut's report was postponed to 5501340C. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Dallemagne's 55001410C will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic075x.u12	Minister, a year ago, Ben Ramos, a lawyer by profession, was murdered in the Philippines. He had a strong link with Belgian NGOs for 20 years, as part of the global citizenship education programmes. This assassination is not the only one since the figures of killings of human rights activists are on the rise in the Philippines. Many international cooperation partners are "red-tagged" in the Philippines, including Belgian NGO partner associations. The principle of "red tabgage" is to be designated by local authorities as having links with left-wing extremists in order to delegitimize their action. The latest example is that of the Belgian NGO Caritas, "red tagged" since 5 November last. Minister, regarding the murder of lawyer Ben Ramos, what has Belgium undertaken to demand impartial justice, a fair trial and the arrest of the culprits? Regarding the partners of Belgian "red-tagged" NGOs, what has the government undertaken to support Belgian NGOs active in the Philippines that are targeted by the authorities for their work in defending human rights and to protect and defend their partners?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic075x.u13	Madam President, Mrs de Laveleye, Belgium shares your concern about the assassination of Ben Ramos and the difficult conditions under which civil society in the Philippines must evolve. We have conveyed these concerns to the authorities of that country, in various forums such as the United Nations Human Rights Council. For example, at the June 2019 Council meeting, Belgium co-sponsored the resolution on the human rights situation in the Philippines. It requires, inter alia, that the Philippine Government take all necessary measures to prevent extrajudicial executions, conduct impartial investigations and condemn those responsible in accordance with international norms and standards, including judicial guarantees and the rule of law. This support follows previous initiatives by Belgium in this area at the Human Rights Council, such as our support for three joint statements on the human rights situation in the Philippines over the past three years. In addition, Belgium posed questions and made recommendations at the Universal Periodic Review of the Philippines in May 2017, including a question concerning the request of the Special Rapporteur to visit the country in relation to extrajudicial, summary or arbitrary executions. Within the institutions of the European Union, Belgium regularly discusses with the other Member States how we can draw the attention of the international community to the deterioration of the human rights situation in the Philippines and remind the authorities of that country of their international commitments. On 9 November 2018, the European Union delegation in Manila issued a statement strongly condemning the murder by calling on the Philippine authorities to identify and punish the perpetrators promptly. This statement was also endorsed by the Ambassador of Belgium. On 4 December 2018, my collaborators participated in political consultations with the Philippine authorities in Manila and the European authorities where the subject was put on the agenda. Since 2019, several Belgian NGO partners have been accused of providing financial support to the Communist Party of the Philippines and the associated New People's Army. The procedure for allocating funds to Belgian indirect actors provides for prior accreditation of these actors, based on external screening. The programmes introduced for grants are then reviewed by various experts. Grants are awarded only to programmes meeting international quality criteria, in a more than satisfactory manner. In order to examine the merits of these allegations concerning approved programmes, extensive internal financial audits were carried out immediately on the four Belgian organisations involved and on their nine local partners. No irregularities were noted. In a second stage, an external audit of the organisations involved was commissioned by the administration. It was awarded to Mazars, a business reviewer, and their partner in the Philippines. The field audit was completed in November 2019. The administration has not yet received the final report. However, in the temporary conclusions, no irregularities or illegal activities were found in either Belgium or the Philippines. With these audits, Belgium wants to ensure full transparency and ensure the integrity of the funded organisations and their partners. A joint monitoring mission of the Development Cooperation and Foreign Affairs services is planned for the end of November. During this session, my staff will be able to verify on the ground the charges laid and to talk to the competent authorities. In an increasingly restricted civic space, the work of Belgian organisations and their local partners in the defence of human rights is increasingly difficult, but indispensable. The integrity charges are always seriously reviewed by the administration in order to rule out false allegations, if any, and to allow organizations to continue the work they are engaged in: contribute to achieving the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic075x.u14	Minister, thank you for your answers. You do well to stress this: for several years, as we know, Belgium has shown an exemplary capacity to criticize Mr Duterte, whether at European level or through diplomacy. The events that affect our Belgian NGOs in the Philippines only support the report that was presented this morning by 11.11.11 Vlaanderen, during the symposium where your services were present. This symposium focused on shrinking spaces, which took place this morning. They made recommendations for Europe, but also for the Belgian State. In particular, they recommend making civic space – in French, civil space – a priority of official development assistance. They ask you, as a minister, to prepare a strategic note on democratisation and civil space, in particular to develop a clear vision of how to support NGOs in their work, within increasingly restricted and dangerous spaces. You say that the external audit requested by the Directorate-General for Development Cooperation and Humanitarian Aid (DGD) for the other Belgian NGOs was carried out in the interests of transparency. It's useful, but what will be done on the day Mr. Duterte and the others attack and attack again? We're not going to be able to continue doing audits. At the Belgian and international level, we will have to refine our strategy towards those countries where civil society is living under great pressure and in great danger.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic075x.u15	Minister, in 2018, you announced a 40% reduction in the "Annunciation of Color" program, the federal education program for global citizenship and sustainable development goals, for the period 2019-2023, a cut of 13 million over five years. The provincial branches of the program were the first to be affected by this budget reduction and consideration is under way to review its missions as a result of this cut. An agreement had been reached for 2019, because the government had not been able to legislate in the longer term, since the government had since fallen into ordinary business. Minister, what is planned for the 2020 budget of the "Annunciation of colour" programme?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic075x.u16	Dear colleague, Enabel introduced in 2019 a new five-year "Annonce la couleur" programme for a total budget of €7.5 million. This proposed funding program follows the school years and runs from September 2019 to August 2024. In line with the planned objectives, it provides human resources of ten full-time equivalents. Due to day-to-day business, it was not possible to approve and engage this program in its entirety. So I decided to finance a transitional year. The current programme therefore started in September 2019 and will end in August 2020. In the absence of government, Enabel will have to present a new one-year transitional programme in early 2020, in the continuity of what is currently being done. In terms of budget, this amounts to EUR 1.5 million. In terms of personnel, this new transitional programme should also follow the path of the 2019-2020 programme and remain in line with the needs identified in the five-year programme. In terms of awareness-raising programmes, "Announce colour" highlights three objectives. First, it aims to anchor education to global citizenship in education through intensive networking with relevant education actors, advocacy, dialogue and participation in working and advisory groups. Secondly, it is a matter of providing quality support for the education of global citizenship to schools (the second line) with the NGOs concerned. Third, to provide knowledge and expertise for the education of global citizenship through the KUIT and WikiCM knowledge centres.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic075x.u17	The "Annunciation of Color" tool is an extremely valuable tool for us in Enabel's policy and in official development assistance policy in general. We very much regretted the cutting of the infocycle in 2016 and we believe that the 40% cuts in "Annondre la couleur" are a big loss compared to this tool that we are envied at European level. We are very concerned about the future of the ECM at school level, both Flemish and Francophone. There will need to continue to be a strategic reflection on this particular ECM tool in public assistance. At the international level, we are recommended to provide 3 per cent of official development assistance. We are very far from it with about 1.5%. The cuts that are made at Enabel's level are not a positive signal in relation to the challenges facing sustainable development today.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic075x.u18	Minister, the subject was already discussed in plenary. However, a committee meeting allows for more detail. It will certainly allow you to answer more comprehensively, which is always a good thing. The context is well known. A report by Human Rights Watch accuses the Canadian palm oil company Feronia of running social standards and environmental standards in its activities in Congo, while the company is supported by BIO for over a million euros. For example, it notes that Feronia exposes its workers to dangerous pesticides and that it also dumps unfiltered industrial waste in local watercourses. Moreover, the company is guilty of exploitation of its employees and pays extremely low wages. In fact, it is not the first time Feronia has been called into question because of its activities in Congo. What clauses, specifically in the contracts with BIO, strongly guarantee compliance with social standards and environmental standards? Are there certain criteria or clauses concerning social standards and environmental standards in the contracts between BIO and Feronia? In your opinion, can Feronia be defaulted? Will you take steps to that end? Are you prepared to increase transparency in the agreements concluded by BIO? Finally, shouldn't BIO focus rather on supporting local private companies rather than large multinationals in order to have a sustainable economic impact?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic075x.u19	Mr Minister, I will be brief because I have already had the opportunity to question you on this issue and my colleague, Mr Wouter De Vriendt, has just asked you about it. However, I would like to point out, as my colleague has pointed out, that this report is not isolated and that it is a continuation of various reports and complaints that are now being investigated. That said, for the rest, I am referring to Mr. From Vriendt.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic075x.u20	Minister, we have already had an opportunity to discuss the issue that has already been raised in plenary. So I won't extend either. However, I would like you to answer a few questions. So what about the working conditions on the plantations of Feronia, which is partly financed with Belgian public funds? Is it possible to intervene with the said company in order to improve the conditions on the spot. How do the other investment companies involved in Feronia stand in the face of this extremely critical report?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic075x.u21	Madam President, as I am not present at the beginning of the debate, I do not know what has been said, but I imagine that my colleagues have recalled the problems identified in this dossier. I assume that there has been discussion of workers' exposure to hazardous pesticides, to the discharge of industrial waste into the watercourses, to the wages charged in the company. This has already been mentioned in the Human Rights Watch report. Minister, have you read the report? I assume that's the case. What follow-up are you going to give? What instructions will be given to BIO? In previous inquiries on this subject, you have suggested that Feronia meets the general framework of the European development financial institutions in terms of social and environmental obligations. Given this report, which is in addition to many others, is your position always the same?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic075x.u22	Colleagues, over the past six years, CDC as a capital investor and BIO, FMO and DGD as lenders, have invested $100 million in PHC Feronia after its actual abandonment by its previous owner. At the time of the investment, the company and its surroundings were seriously neglected and 8,000 jobs were threatened. People were working barefoot. The housing was in very poor condition. Medical facilities were dilapidated and salaries were significantly lower than those of today. At present, the situation has been improved. Wages of workers have tripled on average. Protective clothing was provided. A major worker housing renovation project is under way and 72 wells have been drilled or renovated to provide drinking water. Restored medical facilities help thousands of patients each year. These results were achieved in the context of a company located hundreds of kilometres from the nearest large urban agglomeration, with little or no public infrastructure and enormous logistical challenges. When BIO invested, she knew it would take many years to make the foundation of society solid. PHC Feronia has increased its palm oil production and considerable social infrastructure projects have been carried out. However, BIO is also aware that the work to be done will still require years of hard work. The Human Rights Watch report highlights the need to invest more to improve the company's environmental and working conditions. Improving working conditions and community infrastructure is at the heart of DFI's engagement with Feronia. BIO therefore welcomes Human Rights Watch's research and will continue to work with PHC Feronia on how best to address these challenges. It takes its role as a long-term socially responsible investor very seriously and will continue to contribute to positive change in difficult and imperfect contexts. Improving conditions on site is at the heart of DFI's engagement with Feronia. This is why BIO has negotiated an environmental and social action plan with the company to comply with environmental and social law as well as with the environmental and social standards of the international financial company, the IFC, which is part of the World Bank. The environmental and social action plan is an integral part of the contract. A synthetic version is available online on Feronia's website. Removing BIO's financial support is neither possible nor desirable. If a customer has difficulties and cannot meet his obligations, rather than exercising the guarantees immediately or abandoning the project, BIO prefers first to try to find a solution with the customer that allows him to solve the problem while protecting BIO's rights. After all, let us not forget that if the enterprise disappears, the social communities and thousands of people would end up without any source of income in a region where there is no other economic activity. That said, BIO can condition disbursements or adapt loan contracts with financial, social, environmental or other requirements. BIO uses this leverage in all its financing contracts and therefore in the case of Feronia as well. If necessary, it could use this leverage to ensure that Feronia addresses any justified criticism of Human Rights Watch or others. The common position of investment companies is that their role in supporting the enterprise will not be satisfactorily concluded until it is financially autonomous and operates in accordance with international standards on working conditions and best environmental practices. In this regard, their motivations and objectives are the same as those of Human Rights Watch. The BIO loan agreement contains a number of requirements regarding compliance with environmental and social legislation, fundamental conventions of the International Labour Organisation, as well as environmental and social performance standards and guidelines on the environment, society and safety of the International Finance Corporation. Before signing the contract, an independent expert carries out an environmental and social audit. On the basis of any deviations, BIO develops an Environmental and Social Action Plan, which is attached to the contract. The correct implementation of the Environmental and Social Action Plan is controlled by the environmental and social experts of BIO. In the case of Feronia, an independent environmental and social audit is also carried out annually, as required by the financing contract. For detailed information on how BIO implements its environmental and social commitments, please consult BIO's environmental and social policies on the BIO website. A summary of the Environmental and Social Action Plan can be found on the website of Feronia. Discontinuation of investments, adding new conditions for payout up to and including recall of BIO's investments in the event of significant non-compliance is contractually permitted. However, these measures should only be taken as a last resort, given the potential damage to the beneficiaries of the investments and the social impact on employees, customers and suppliers. Sometimes it doesn't make sense to bring a business into bankruptcy. Note that PHC not only has to repay BIO, but also all other lenders. It's a total of 49 million dollars versus 11 million dollars. PHC must repay the principal and the interest. This means that the total amount owed by PHC on 15 September amounts to $4.2 million, of which $946,000 is BIO. This amounts to 3.6% of the total amount of loans from the first repayment and then progressive repayments every six months until the end of 2025. Due to the decrease in palm oil prices since 2016, Feronia was financially unable to repay the first disc in September 2019. If necessary, BIO may restructure the loan or extend the repayment plan. If so, BIO's Board of Directors would include additional concrete environmental and social conditions in the amendments to the financing agreement with Feronia. To the extent permitted by law, BIO strives for maximum openness and transparency. The main objective of BIO is to work together with its customers to improve performance in the areas of environment, society and human rights. The environmental and social policy of BIO is made public on its website. In principle, BIO publishes its investments and the corresponding amounts on its website. However, environmental Diligences and Social Diligences are not disclosed, as BIO is bound by confidentiality agreements with its customers. The amounts invested by BIO can be consulted online in the portfolio section of the BIO website. PHC is a local Congolese company, of which Feronia, registered in Belgium, is one of its shareholders. BIO may only legally invest in private companies registered in a developing country, either directly or through local or regional investment funds and banks. By the way, Feronia is only multinational when it comes to shareholdership. PHC is the only significant activity with a turnover of about 20 million euros. This is not yet half the maximum turnover of an SME as defined by the European Union. Madame de Laveleye, in terms of human rights risk analysis, the performance standards of the World Bank's International Finance Corporation (IFC) cover most of the human rights applicable to BIO's investments. However, the IFC's environmental and social performance standards require that BIO-funded companies have a process to identify the risks that impact them in this area, to socialise information and to consult local stakeholders. During the process of approving new investments and monitoring existing projects, the BIO team verifies that the IFC's performance standards, including those related to disclosure of information by the company, are met by the company. If a deficiency is identified, it will be included in the environmental and social action plan, which is contractually binding. In the case of Feronia PHC, BIO's findings, drawn from such due diligence and environmental and social monitoring audits, are similar to those of Human Rights Watch. They have resulted in additional requirements for personal protective equipment, water treatment and working conditions to be included in the contractual environmental and social action plan. For high-risk projects, this may include a large-scale environmental and social impact assessment and a community consultation process. As part of PHC, such an evaluation was conducted in 2014 at the time of the investment by the Development Finance Institution (DFI) and included consultations with many stakeholders, including the Communities. BIO's complaint mechanism is based on a contact form available on BIO's website and allows for easy and effective encryption of complaints. In addition, the complaints officer can be reached by e-mail, mail or telephone. BIO's complaint mechanism is not the only way that affected individuals can file a complaint. Other complaint mechanisms are available under specific certification schemes, such as the sustainable palm oil round table. The national contact point for the OECD guidelines, the judicial system of the recipient company's country and the national courts of the IFC countries of origin are also available. When BIO co-invests with larger multilateral development banks or DFIs, there is little or no added value in actively promoting its own claim mechanism. In the case of PHC, for example, the German and Dutch DFIs (DEG and FMO) conducted the investment process. It was their independent complaint handling mechanism that received a complaint on November 5, 2018. However, BIO is currently examining how it can increase the accessibility of its complaint mechanism when conducting a direct investment transaction, i.e. when it does not follow a larger BFI and the project presents a higher environmental and social risk. BIO does not have an anti-repeal policy but specific measures are taken to protect complainants. The most obvious is the strict confidentiality of the complainant's identity. The practice has also shown that contacting the management of the company concerned or the project promoter, without revealing having received a complaint, also works quite well. Feronia does not have title to land, but has received concessions from the Congolese State, in the form of a right to farm. An analysis of the situation was carried out by the German Development Bank DEG. The report concludes that these concessions are lawful. BIO has not negotiated a social infrastructure implementation plan under its loan contract, but an environmental and social action plan, some of which requires the construction or rehabilitation of social infrastructure for workers and their families (housing, wells, schools, health centres and hospitals). To date, 72 wells have been constructed, hospitals and health centres have been rehabilitated and several hundred houses have been partially renovated. However, much work remains to be done. Mr Ben Achour, as a lending provider, BIO is committed to resolving the issues raised. Most of them are known to Feronia PHC, its shareholders and loan providers through their own due diligence policy and their own monitoring, the provisions of which have been and will continue to be improved. In an initial response to the report, BIO's Board of Directors and other loan providers asked the CDC shareholder to work urgently with Feronia on the above-mentioned aspects and to integrate these commitments into an updated environmental and social action plan. The IFCs also asked Feronia to provide a short-term action plan to address environmental and social concerns. Finally, BIO may condition its disbursements or adaptations of loan contracts to financial, social, environmental or other requirements. BIO uses this leverage in its financing contracts. This is also the case with Feronia PHC. If necessary, it will use this additional leverage to ensure that Feronia remedies any justified criticisms of Human Rights Watch or others. In 2015, BIO commissioned an independent expert to determine the extent to which Feronia was in compliance with the environmental and social performance standards of the international financial company. On this basis, an environmental and social action plan has been drawn up, which forms an integral part of the loan contract and defines a large number of actions to be undertaken during the loan years. BIO and other DFI representatives visit the site on average every three months and commission an assessment by an environmental and social expert each year. To date, 85% of the actions provided for in the environmental and social action plan have been completed. Some of the outstanding actions will require more time and financial resources, such as the treatment of organic effluents. In addition, the BIO Board of Directors asked Feronia PHC to provide a short-term action plan as soon as possible to quickly address the findings mentioned in the Human Rights Watch report. BIO and the other IFCs believe that their role in supporting the company will not be satisfactorily fulfilled until it is financially self-sustaining and operates in accordance with international standards for working conditions and best environmental practices. In this regard, their motivation and objectives are the same as those of Human Rights Watch. After a long reading, I would now like to say a few words on a more general level. We have talked about it on topical issues. It is clear that investments like Feronia PHC are not obvious. But that is also why we are doing it. If it were easy, BIO wouldn't be necessary. BIO invests in very difficult places. I think I have sufficiently explained why this is a particularly difficult place: geographically very difficult, in a country where circumstances are not obvious, and an activity that was completely neglected. With regard to BIO, there is a choice. Either, we consider it to be a loss box and we withdraw. And if we do, other investors will do it, too. The results would be catastrophic for the local population. Personally, I believe that we must continue to invest in a project like Feronia. But does this mean that we must continue to do so without taking into account the points denounced by Human Rights Watch? No! Of course not! Moreover, the Human Rights Watch report, which was prepared in full cooperation with us and Feronia – one of our demands – clearly indicates the existence of problems. And some of them persist. If a few years ago they were more serious, they are, nevertheless, still present. The fact that there is an improvement is not a reason to forget the current situation. In my view, this is a motivation to keep putting pressure. I believe that Belgium has been the most critical of donors and investors in this area. I do not want to sound too pragmatic, but the circumstances in which we work are unfortunately not clear. If we want to make progress, it will have to be done step by step. With regard to the Management Board, I have clarified that I expect major steps to be taken in the coming years to address the concerns raised here. Feronia is a project on which a great deal of criticism can be made, but I think that caution is appropriate. Feronia is often portrayed as a multinational and that makes the company almost by definition guilty. Feronia, however, is not a multinational company, but it is a local company with a turnover of EUR 20 million, which provides jobs to a very large number of people. I know that there are many questions about the production of palm oil, and it is true that there is a lot of criticism about palm oil as a product. At that location, however, there are very few other options. The company does fit in with the reasoning we follow, namely: to ensure that local economic development is created which can benefit as many people as possible. We have always said that it must be sustainable economic developments, but in the area of sustainability there are things that are not being realised today. However, I think that our commitment from Belgian development cooperation, from BIO, should consist in raising a tooth, not giving it up.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic075x.u23	Thank you, Minister, for the very comprehensive answer. We'll be sure to read that. There are also discussions on this matter, so we will follow this up in any case. A distinction is made between a multinational and a local company. Our main concern is that the proceeds of such a company in Congo do not flow to foreign shareholders, but benefit the local population and local entrepreneurship as much as possible. That is why we have attached such importance to this question. I think the fundamental question here is where BIO sets the bar on social and environmental issues before going into an investment. If they set that bar too low, which is perhaps the case with Feronia, then one cannot encourage such a company to immediately raise the bar thanks to investment aid. If we tolerate that the bar stays low for years, what is being done? I fully understand the reasoning that this support can be used to achieve progress in return, but the starting point must be more or less acceptable. If we look at what is in the report of Human Rights Watch, it seems to us to be below the minimum standards. However, BIO has been investing in that company for some time and that company has been using these practices for some time. There's got to be a roadmap. I understand you want to see improvement over the next few years. It must be very compelling. If there is no improvement, this aid should be withdrawn. We cannot support companies that deal with employees in this way. There must be compelling progress, and the starting point at which BIO invests must be sufficiently high in social and environmental terms. That is the essence for us.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic075x.u24	Minister, thank you for your long answer. I hear your background. The place where Feronia works is particularly difficult. We can only hear it. You also said that progress had been made. The problem is that the complaint was filed with the DEG a year ago. The first reports are already old. Human Rights Watch's report dates back a few months. In any case, while progress has been made, these are still too low in relation to the needs of local populations. The various stakeholder banks continue to say that they pay an average salary of $3.30 a day while, according to the reports, this is not the case. But in the DRC, according to the new law, €4.30 a day should be paid. Problems therefore continue to arise in terms of legality, although to be quite honest, the agricultural sector is not affected by this law. I do not understand why it is decided to pay lower wages to workers in this sector. A decree should be issued concerning the latter. But we're in the Congo. It must therefore be noted that one is facing a shadow zone. This proves the limit of the proposed model. On the occasion of your previous reply, you said that Belgium was exemplary in that most of the resources available to it were allocated to fragile countries. For my part, I believe that we must have tools adapted to them. And I remain convinced that Feronia's experience shows that this tool is probably not adapted to the context. However, progress has been made. We will continue to follow up on this issue, not to mention the issues of transparency. Indeed, in your answer to a written question I asked you, you often refer to confidentiality and business secrecy. When it comes to public money, it is difficult to hear that Parliament cannot have access to certain data. We are invited to work on this issue at the level of BIO, which we will do, and we will continue to follow the file closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic075x.u25	Minister, thank you for your very explicit and detailed answer. In my view, it was necessary to proceed in this way. This is a problem that cannot be ignored when it comes to development cooperation policy. The question is how far we can manage to control what we want to put in place, namely to develop and prosper a region, its inhabitants, a country, while being strict and transparent about the conditions and standards that we want to see spread throughout the world in terms of human rights and the universality of rights. This is an example of this difficulty in maintaining a balance, but it also indicates that small steps can sometimes lead to success. That has been said. I welcome the close cooperation between BIO and Human Rights Watch, which must continue in full transparency. In addition, we fund some entrepreneurial projects that benefit this region and its workers – we must remember. The companies concerned must therefore comply with our requirements. That is why it is important that this should also be taken into account in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic075x.u26	Minister, I am a young parliamentarian. Therefore, I did not know this file. When I found out, I felt very uncomfortable – like many colleagues. This case has indeed the taste of fiasco and the smell of scandal. I understand that investment conditions are very difficult. However, this does not explain everything, particularly the reason why the commitments were not met. For example, I do not explain that financing is no better conditioned on the fulfilment of the promises made by the company. Wages were discussed, but it is also noted that school fees were not covered. Similarly, the industrial guards were not trained or equipped. The company prides itself on having rehabilitated hospitals, but this allegation is contested. There has also been a significant reduction in reserves of cropland and set-aside. In addition, there are far too many daily workers and land grabbing is deplored. The list of problems is long. The most worrying is that these facts have been noted since 2015 – already. The progress you are making, Minister, seems to me to be too weak and largely insufficient. As my colleague De Vriendt pointed out, a moment of exchange and information was requested by the company. I look forward to being able to participate. On the basis of the information that will be given to us and that the NGOs will continue to provide us with, I suggest that you intensify the dialogue. Of course, we will come back to you to make sure that this very problematic issue can be improved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic075x.u27	Minister, at the moment there are 38 million people living with HIV. In 2018, 1.7 million infected were added. Every week, 6,000 young women aged between 15 and 24 were involved. I will not contradict a great deal of efforts have been made for HIV through the UN AIDS Fund, which focuses on sensitisation, detection and treatment and support for HIV patients. However, I have a number of questions about this. Firstly, the global fund did not collapse in 2019. Belgium has taken its part. Can Belgium play a greater role in sensitising HIV? Secondly, the current UN AIDS plan will come to an end in 2020 and a new three-year plan will have to come into effect. On the previous switch, however, there appeared to be a problem with the continuity of supply of medication. Aid organisations were alarmed about that at the time. What will you do from here to avoid this happening again? At the moment, aid organisations have already identified us as having problems stocking and distributing sufficient medication for people exposed to HIV. Thirdly, a fairly large number of countries have not yet achieved the 90-90 ambition. However, we see a reduction in the percentages devoted by the DGD to reproductive health. In this legislature, this has been substantially reduced. What's the reason for this? Finally, how do you think Agenda 2030 commitments can still be met in these circumstances?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic075x.u28	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, for my group, it is essential that our country engage resolutely in the defence of sexual and reproductive rights in the world with a particular focus on the fight against HIV and STIs. In this context, while global efforts have allowed 62% of people living with HIV to be treated in 2018, we must unfortunately note that the situation is far from homogeneous from one country to another and that people under treatment are unfortunately not immune to difficulties in accessing their treatment or medical follow-up. The lack of adequate funding, weak supply chains and administrative problems in managing Global Fund for AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria grants lead to many challenges on the ground, both for patients and for non-governmental cooperation actors. In order to avoid such crisis situations, international actors, including Belgian development cooperation, may have a role to play, for example, by monitoring the availability of HIV and TB (tuberculosis) inputs in our partner countries or by providing for the possibility of financing treatment gaps in crisis situations. Minister, what are our country's efforts – and through what channels – in the fight against HIV and STIs? What are the 2019 budget data? How could Belgium contribute even better in order to protect patients from stress and dramatic consequences in the event of a rupture in their treatment or follow-up? Is there any reflection within the Global Fund in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic075x.u29	Madam President, Belgium will certainly continue to play its role in raising awareness of HIV, in preventing the disease and in treating and detecting it. Belgium has made commitments for several years to UNAIDS and the Global Fund to combat AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria, as well as to the World Health Organisation, which is responsible for the standards and quality assurance of pharmaceutical products for AIDS control. For 2019, the following contributions were made. The Global Fund: €15 million. WHO: €7.5 million. UNAIDS: €3 million. In addition, contributions are made to organizations that are incidentally active in this area, such as UNICEF, UNDP or UNFPA. In the management bodies of these organisations, the representatives of Belgium insist on access to services for all, particularly target groups (adolescents, sexual minorities, sex workers, drug addicts) to avoid hidden epidemic nuclei. With these multi-year commitments, the organisations can count on that support from Belgium and see how much they can work with. That's one way to avoid sudden stockruptures. Global stock insurance cannot of course depend solely on Belgium, but requires global solidarity and, above all, a national commitment to organising the distribution and coordination of donors in the context of strengthening their health system. The representatives of Belgium in the management councils and in the countries regularly stand up for the importance and avoidance of stockruptures. Belgium has exercised a significant influence in favour of sexual and reproductive health and rights. Our country took the lead in the SheDecides movement and showed itself to be a strong advocate of sexual and reproductive rights at UN level. In general, DGD's expenditure on health has fallen, inter alia because the general budget has not grown and there are other sectors that are important and therefore receive resources that are not SRHR-accountable. With regard to reproductive health and rights, there was a strong front loading in 2017 due to a number of initiatives. However, it is too early to draw conclusions on the basis of the 2018 figures if those expenditures would decrease. I don't think this will be the case. SRHC is embedded in many governmental and multilateral programmes, which is likely to stabilise the figures in 2019 and to rise again by 2020. The new programmes will only be reflected in 2019 and 2020. Belgium will certainly work towards achieving sustainable targets by 2030, but it is also clear that this will depend on various national, international and global factors such as: stability, economic as well as climate change, peace, solidarity, political will and so on. Belgium supports the fight against sexually transmitted infections, in particular HIV, in several ways. In the support provided by Belgian-funded civil society actors and ENABEL to our partners' health systems, it is called for to integrate the fight against STIs and HIV by ensuring the accessibility of the system and the quality of services – in particular as regards pharmaceuticals. In these partner countries, our diplomatic representations use political dialogue to deliver the same messages as in international organizations. The Institute of Tropical Medicine (IMT) in Antwerp, based on its expertise, is a member of the technical councils of UNAIDS and the Global Fund. It is also supported by our cooperation. Belgium is participating in the European Commission's efforts to combat HIV. It is also part of the same constituent group as the Commission on the Global Fund Steering Committee. In 2019, through the ITM, we contributed to a study funded by DG DEVCO in several African countries on the results of the Global Fund, particularly in terms of support and supply. Our country and the Global Fund will continue their efforts, in particular on the basis of the above-mentioned study, to improve its results. At the last meeting, the importance of political dialogue with supported countries on target populations was highlighted. At UNAIDS, where Belgium is also home, particular attention is paid to the need to bring prevention to the forefront.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic075x.u30	Thank you for your reply, Minister. Of course, I understand that meeting the 2030 Agenda will not only depend on Belgium, but I continue to emphasise the importance of sensitisation and the approach to health and reproductive health. You spoke of a stabilisation in 2019. By 2020, more resources would be allocated. That sounds like good news to me. I will follow that up, but I can only observe that in 2015 14 % was issued and in 2018 11.7 %. That's a significant difference. I hope that by 2020 a catch-up will be made. The stock interruptions are also a problem that we will not only solve, but I would like to stress that people on the ground often receive medication only once every six months. If they have to travel very far to pick them up and miss six months of therapy, it has a very big impact on their health and on the health of people in their environment. We therefore need to prevent such stock breaches in the future. I would ask you to follow that problem as closely as possible with your services.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic075x.u31	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. According to Médecins Sans Frontières, 82 per cent of international needs in the fight against HIV, tuberculosis and malaria are met. A significant 18 per cent effort is still needed. I know that Belgium is ranked among the best students. I intend to go back to the proposal which has been made to see, between each programming of the International Fund, how to manage periods of lack of financial availability and what role Belgium could play more.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic075x.u32	Minister, already in 2014, I was asking the government about the situation in Uganda, a partner country of Belgian development cooperation and often becoming the symbol of intolerance towards homosexuals, as Human Rights Watch reports. Although the Ugandan authorities are in the process of abandoning the prosecution of dozens of people arrested during the last month in Kampala because of their sexual orientation or alleged gender identity, the situation remains very worrying. Homophobic speeches by senior government officials are frequent. In October, the Minister of Ethics and Integrity told journalists that the parliament was preparing to table a bill that would criminalize so-called "propaganda and recruitment" by homosexuals, and would make serious consensual relationships between same-sex people subject to the death penalty. The Minister of Security stated, on October 3, in a television interview, that LGBT people had links to an alleged terrorist group. Mr Minister, could you please indicate what political and diplomatic levers Belgium is using in this context vis-à-vis the authorities of this partner country? In the light of Uganda's international commitments, what avenues of bilateral and multilateral pressure exist against these anti-gay laws? How can we find the right balance to maintain the aid provided to the people and prevent Belgian or European funds from supporting such policies? Finally, what global approach is developing in our country in terms of combating discrimination with our partner countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic075x.u33	Mr Lacroix, there is currently no new law that provides that homosexual acts are punishable by the death penalty in Uganda. After the Ministry of Ethics mentioned the government's intention to resubmit a former bill to parliament, his own party recalled it. The government is formal: at no time has a bill to this effect been considered. On the occasion of the political dialogue of 15 November 2019 between Uganda and the European Union, in which Belgium participated, the Ugandan President addressed the issue and recalled that there was no bill. There is therefore no reason to adopt a formal view on this matter. The Belgian position is well known: the fight against the death penalty and the fight against all forms of discrimination, including sexual orientation, are priorities of Belgian international human rights policy. In addition to Belgian international human rights policy, an approach to human rights is one of the central axes of Belgium's development policy. This approach is based on the human rights principles and norms set forth in the relevant international conventions, including the principle of non-discrimination. In the context of development cooperation, this includes strengthening the positions of rights holders, who need to know, claim and exercise their rights, and the role of duty holders (government and other service providers). The current indicative programme of cooperation between Belgium and Uganda explicitly mentions, in addition to a number of other references to human rights: "The government of Belgium expectations the respect for the basic human rights of social minorities, including sexual minorities concerning consenting adults". The Belgian Embassy in Kampala obviously remains attentive to any development in the field of human rights. Belgian Government Development Cooperation invests a total of €46.5 million in health care in Uganda, including €26.5 million in the previous cooperation programme with Uganda and €20 million in the current programme. In the current cooperation programme, the emphasis is on equal access to quality health care. Particular attention is paid to the various cross-cutting themes: gender, sexual and reproductive health and rights, HIV AIDS and human rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-12-17-55-commissie-ic075x.u34	Minister, thank you for your answers. I hear you are keeping an eye on the development of this issue in Uganda. I know that the Open Vld has tabled a motion for a resolution in this committee to combat homophobia. I have tabled amendments and, if they are adopted, we will support them.
