ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-26-54-commissie-ic1066x.u1	Mr President, Madam Minister, the Act of 18 September 1986 introducing political leave for members of public service staff defines political leave for the exercise of a political mandate or a function assimilated thereto as follows: either an exemption from service which has no bearing on the administrative and financial situation of the staff member; or an optional political leave granted at the request of the staff member; or an ex officio political leave which the staff member cannot give up. It is further specified that voluntary waivers of service and political leave may be taken with a minimum of one hour and after notifying the head of service. The sum of these, however, may not exceed the monthly total of voluntary exemptions from service and political leave. Finally, the number of days of political leave is determined in proportion to the actual service provided by the staff member. In addition to this law, the Royal Decree of 19 November 1998 on leave and absences granted to staff members of State administrations provides that if the number of days of leave calculated in proportion to the actual service provided does not form an entire number, it shall be rounded to the next higher unit. It comes to my mind that in practice these texts are not applied uniformly and consistently in the various public services of the State. Only ex officio and optional days of political leave, calculated in proportion to the services actually provided, shall be rounded to the next higher unit when they do not form a whole number, or only ex officio days of political leave, calculated in proportion to the services actually provided, shall be rounded to the next higher unit when they do not form an entire number. If applicable, optional political leave is calculated in hours. Neither ex officio political leave nor optional political leave shall be rounded to the next higher unit. In the latter case, political leave is simply calculated in hours. Minister, does section 12 of the Royal Order of November 19, 1998 apply to political leave as defined by the Act of September 18, 1986? How do you explain these differences in services? How do you intend to address these differences? What solution do you intend to bring to this end in order to ensure that the texts are applied in a single way and that civil servants are equal in the face of political leave? Is it legal to calculate political leave in hours, not days? Is this really correct and effective, given the different working time regimes (with or without score) applicable in state administrations?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-26-54-commissie-ic1066x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I should like to make the following point: the Act of 18 September 1986 establishing political leave for public service employees only refers to political leave, whereas the Royal Decree of November 1998 on leave and absences granted to members of the staff of the State administration lays down rules for other types of leave. Let me also add that the scope of the 1986 Act is broader than that laid down for the 1998 Royal Decree. While the scope of the Royal Decree of 1998 is limited to members of the statutory and contractual staff employed in the federal administrative civil service, the Act of September 1986 also covers, inter alia, the CALOG staff, the SNCB staff or that of the rescue zones. Article 2 of the Act of September 1986 lays down a set of principles for the granting of political leave, in particular the prorata of political leave in the case of part-time work. In practice, a part-time staff member will be entitled to political leave in proportion to the services actually provided. This provision does not provide for rounding to the higher unit whereas the result of this calculation is not an integer number. Section 12 of the Royal Decree to which you refer, which allows the calculation of annual vacation leave to be rounded to the next higher unit, cannot apply to political leave as defined in the 1986 Act, as it relates only to vacation leave for statutory and contractual employees employed in the federal administrative public service. With regard to the exemption from service and the optional political leave provided for in the 1986 Act, I would also point out that the same article provides that they may be taken in the form of hours, subject to the agreement of the head of service. In other words, it is not illegal to calculate political leave in hours. As far as I am aware, I have not had any particular problems with regard to the application of the regulations on political leave. However, I will draw the attention of my administration to the problem that you are presenting and ask him to repeat on the website fedweb.belgium.be, if it proves necessary, the way in which the law is applied. There is therefore no question here of the royal decree which establishes political leave and which is normally already detailed in particular by means of examples. For your information, my administration's regulatory experts are always available to staff and services to answer application questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-26-54-commissie-ic1066x.u3	Mr President, I thank the Minister. To a technical question, a technical answer. Madam Minister, I would also like to thank you for making contact with staff members, if necessary.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-26-54-commissie-ic1066x.u4	Mr President, Minister, on 23 February I questioned the Minister for Work, Mr Kris Peeters, about the political leave for the new OCMW and municipal councils and the special committee. Following the integration of the OCMW's in Flanders, there has been uncertainty about the political leave for the council members. Today, a city council member who is also a member of the OCMW Council has in principle the right to accumulate political leave for both mandates. The question is whether this will be the case in the new legislature with the double mandate. Moreover, it is unclear whether political leave can be taken by members of the special social services committee. Formerly they were entitled to political leave because it was part of the mandate as OCMW council member. From 1 January 2019 this is a separate mandate for which one should not necessarily be OMCW or city council member. Minister Peeters was able to answer my questions regarding the employees of the private sector, but you are competent for the federal officials. Hence my questions. Firstly, will the political leave for OCMW and city council be combined? Do you still envisage a legislative amendment or any other regulation to allow or reduce this? If so, when can they be put to the vote? Secondly, is there a provision which provides that members of the special social services committee are also entitled to political leave, which is not explicitly provided for now? If not, are you currently working on a solution to allow this political leave? When do you think you will be able to present this solution? I know that legislative initiatives have been taken in this area since my question was submitted, so my question is a little dated. However, I would like to hear your opinion on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-26-54-commissie-ic1066x.u5	Mr President, Mr Van Hecke, the integration of the Flemish OMCWs into their respective municipalities can indeed raise various questions about the application of political leave to the political mandates endorsed by this review. I have to note that the Flemish government, through the Decree of 21 December 2018, has taken the necessary steps to take this into account, as has my colleague, the Minister of Work, who is currently doing the same for the employees at federal level, with the clarification that he has started his initiative before the government entered into ongoing cases. As regards the federal official who would be in the same situation and for whom the political leave is provided by the law of 18 September 1986 establishing political leave for the staff of the public services, I have to say that my predecessors, although the federal government had full power, have not taken any initiative in the area of political leave. I believe that this law will have to be amended, at least in order to clarify the measure. You will understand that in a period of current cases it is particularly difficult to take such an initiative in a matter which may be sensitive, especially in the area of political choices that should be made in relation to cumulation. In the current state of affairs, in view of the provisions of the Law of 18 September 1986, as it is now applicable, I must also clarify that the cumulation of political leave linked to the mandate of a city council member and the mandate of a member of a social welfare council is perfectly possible for a federal official. For the federal official who is only a member of the special social service committee, there is currently no right to political leave. As far as the latter is concerned, I can only support the bill adopted last Tuesday by the Home Affairs Commission in order to grant political leave to federal officials who only exercise the mandate of a member of the Special Social Service Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-26-54-commissie-ic1066x.u6	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I believe that this legislative proposal will solve the problem immediately, a problem which has apparently not been addressed by your predecessors. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-26-54-commissie-ic1066x.u7	Questions Nos 29196 by Mr Bogaert and 29227 by Mrs Matz are transformed into written questions.
