ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u1	Minister, after 20 years of negotiations, Mercosur and the European Union concluded a trade agreement on 28 June. It is one of the largest trade agreements ever. Last year, the European Union and Mercosur traded nearly EUR 88 billion in goods. South American countries mainly exported agricultural products, Europeans exported industrial and pharmaceutical products. As you know, there was a lot of protest against the trade agreement. European farmers fear unfair competition. Three hundred civil society organisations expressed their concern last year about the effects of the trade agreement on climate and human rights and advocated a halt to the agreement. In Belgium, Agrofront is also opposed to the current agreement. European agriculture is subject to more stringent rules than South American ones. In Brazil, for example, 200 new pesticides have been accepted since President Jair Bolsonaro took office, many of which are toxic. Most of them are pesticides which are also banned in Europe. The agreement has yet to be ratified by the European Parliament and the national parliaments. I would like to ask you the following questions. Can you explain the Belgian attitude? What position has our country taken? How do you estimate the impact of the agreement on the overall Belgian economy and specifically the agricultural sector? Is sufficient account taken of the cumulative impact of trade agreements on the agricultural sector of the European Union?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u2	Minister, on 28 June the European Commission announced the conclusion of the trade agreement with Mercosur. Since that announcement, many European countries have denounced the agreement and stressed its negative environmental impacts, both in terms of agriculture and the sanctions system. Our agricultural associations have denounced the dangers of this agreement for our agricultural model, mainly in the beef and poultry, sugar and ethanol sectors. The Walloon Minister of Agriculture, at the time of the European Commission's announcement, pointed out that the Charter of the Walloon Federation of Agriculture (FWA) was opposed to this Treaty. In environmental and climate matters, the irresponsible behaviour of the Brazilian president, particularly in protecting the Amazonian forest and other natural areas in Brazil – the Paraná River or the Pantanal Plain – raises questions about the real will of some countries to implement the Mercosur climate clauses. As regards a joint agreement, this Treaty will have to be voted unanimously by all Member States in order to be adopted. The relevant parliaments will therefore also be involved in the process and will each have to approve the agreement. Minister, could you tell us what are the next steps in the process announced by the Commission? What is Belgium's attitude to this agreement and the ratification process? What are the impacts of this agreement on our country? Could an evaluation be conducted? Have there been any consultations with the various levels of government concerned in order to arrive at a common position? Are meetings scheduled in the coming days?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u3	Colleagues, after 20 years of negotiations agreed on several occasions and then restarted in mid-2016, on 28 June, the European Commission and the four Mercosur states (Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay) reached a political agreement in principle for the commercial part of the Association Agreement. This news concludes an open and transparent process. As early as 28 June, the Commission immediately published the text of the agreement in principle, quickly followed by all the texts of the negotiated agreement, as well as a large number of fact sheets, graphics and communication material. The commitment lists are still being checked. The legal revision of the texts has already begun, in advance of the translation and analysis of the text. All these steps will still take several months, and the agreement of the Council of the European Union will not be requested until the end of 2020. Then the ratification process can be started by the European Parliament and the relevant national parliaments. The strategic value of the agreement and the many benefits expected – not only in economic terms – make it an essential part of European and Belgian foreign and trade policies. An objective and dispassionate debate has yet to take place in order to measure more concretely the real impact that this agreement could have on the Belgian economy, the agricultural sector or the environment. The Belgian position is therefore not yet finalized. The SPF Economy is also considering an analysis of the economic impact of the agreement. Within the framework of the negotiations, regular consultations and coordinations have been organised, allowing at each stage of the negotiation process the definition of Belgium's objectives, offensive interests and sensitivities. These internal discussions continue and collaboration continues towards the final evaluation phase by the end of 2020. The European Commission has just published a Sustainability Impact Assessment. Although the data for the study do not have the final text as the basis, it will certainly be able to feed our discussion. I share your analysis that the situation of the agricultural sector is special in European trade agreements. While all the recent agreements offer important opportunities, for example for the beef and pork sectors in the agreement with Japan, we must not be blind to the vulnerability of some of our agricultural interests. In this respect, it is important to first of all have a good factual view of the impact of the Mercosur agreement on the various agricultural sectors. In a second phase, we need a real structural approach to the sector. As announced in my latest progress report on trade to Parliament, I have therefore been advocating a cumulative approach to the agricultural sector within our agricultural policy for three years. Among other things, Belgium proposed a non-paper on the cumulative impact of trade agreements on the agricultural sector in 2018. This was also shared with Parliament. Several Member States are now supporting us and the Commission is also following us now. The European Commissioner for Agriculture and future Commissioner for Trade Phil Hogan has confirmed that the Commission will strengthen the assessment of the cumulative impact of trade agreements on the agricultural sector. This is, in my view, a critical step towards achieving the right policy responses. However, more measures are certainly needed to assist our agricultural sector. For example, we are already working today to improve the promotion of our agricultural products. The application for recognition of white-blue beef as a geographical indication is an example of this. On the other hand, consideration could also be given to possible reforms within the sector itself. Available European funds can be used to strengthen the sector's position within European and international trade flows. It is also up to the sectors concerned, the federations and the regions to take the necessary initiatives, including with regard to the possible mobilisation of European financial support. Finally, regulatory cooperation in the agricultural sector remains an important Belgian concern. The European Union is providing its high standard as a basis for imports of agricultural products from Mercosur countries. A level playing field and, above all, its effective control should lead to fair competition. This is essential to safeguard our agricultural standards, including sanitary and phytosanitary provisions, animal welfare and resistance to antibiotics, including for our consumers. Ladies and gentlemen, we will certainly have the opportunity, at several stages, to present with some colleagues in the government impact studies – perhaps also this cumulative study on the agricultural sector – and probably also a number of comments on various aspects of these agreements before moving towards a position that Belgium will have to express to the Council before ratification.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u4	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I feel very clearly that you have an insight into the issue of the Mercosur agreement. The agricultural sector is indeed vulnerable. It is therefore a good thing that there are still several stages to go and that we must first know the real impact and facts before we determine the Belgian position. I hear very clearly in your reply that you are in favour of a level playing field and fair competition. Of course, the agricultural sector also has its own responsibility, but I think it is a sector that is under pressure today and that these high agricultural standards may be used to ensure that the sector is not put under any more pressure than is the case today. We are counting on you and your successor, as well as you in your future position, to defend the cumulative impact of trade agreements at European level, which is very important for the agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u5	Minister, thank you for your answer. You have been very specific about the agricultural issue. I broadly agree with the analysis you make. I think we need to have an in-depth, calm and taboo debate. We need to see what our offensive and defensive interests are. Above all, I believe that we must avoid having an in-depth political debate at the end of the process, at a time when everything is closed. I will no longer be there to follow up on the work, but I appeal to the chairman of this committee to have this matter regularly on the agenda and to have this discussion in time, in particular on agricultural, phytosanitary, animal welfare standards, etc. On the other hand, Minister, you have not answered the question of the climate and environmental clauses of the Mercosur countries at all. You have heard statements in France or in other countries questioning the behaviour of certain countries such as Brazil. Today, this country has an attitude that we feel is totally irresponsible about environmental protection, not only through actions it is taking in relation to the Amazon forest but also through an agreement of this type that could probably boost an agricultural model made of large farms, large properties and intensive breeding that could damage new natural spaces. I think that this aspect of the agreement – we will have the opportunity to come back to it – obviously deserves our full attention. It would not be a matter of aggravating the environmental situation in Brazil, but, on the contrary, of being able to use it as a lever to safeguard, particularly with regard to the Amazon rainforest, what many of us consider to be a world heritage of humanity.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u6	President: Els Van Hoof.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u7	The President: The merged questions Mr De Vriendt and Mr Ben Achor's 55000145C and Mr De Vriendt's 555000369C are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u8	On March 14, the House of Representatives adopted a motion for a resolution tabled by Olivier Maingain on the initiative of the Memoir Group and co-signed by several parties present in the assembly. The resolution sought to clarify and repeal the pension scheme granted to former Belgian military employees of the German national socialist regime during the Second World War. This pension system seemed to us to be totally incompatible with the ideal of European reconciliation, but also with the respect that we must show for the victims of the Nazi regime and for the resistors. The motion for a resolution asked your Government for a number of things. Firstly, to ask the authorities of North Rhine-Westphalia, which are responsible for Belgian cases concerning pensions granted by Germany to citizens of Belgian nationality, all the information which can make clear about current and past pensions. Secondly, to send to the authorities of North Rhine-Westphalia data concerning Belgian collaborators and collaborators of foreign nationality residing in Belgium during the Second World War, convicted in Belgium for acts of collaboration with the Nazi occupant. The Criminal Code provides that collaboration is a crime. Thirdly, the aim was to plead with the German Federal Government for the end of the pension scheme for Belgian employees. Meanwhile, our neighbouring countries, aware of our parliamentary work, have also made progress on this issue. In France, information from the State Secretariat to the Minister of the Army states that at the end of March four exWaffenSS were among the 54 beneficiaries, in France, of benefits paid by Berlin under the German Federal Law on Assistance to War Victims of 1950. The French authorities have since sought clarification from Berlin. For their part, the German deputies of the Left Party Die Linke addressed a series of questions to the government of Angela Merkel, whose answer, published on 15 May, states that at the end of 2017, 2,804 persons aged 88 and over (including 2,487 Belgian nationals) received a pension from the German State in Belgium, while stating that it was not possible to clarify whether these sums were related to the war. As a result, Minister, can you let us know what follow-up your government has given to requests for the resolution? Is there or is there any agreement with the authorities of the other countries also concerned with the granting of these pensions?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u9	Madam President, Minister, with regard to the attached questions, I shall briefly address the issue of German pensions for former Belgian employees. According to the official German figures, these are 63,159 people, 17 of whom are Belgian. Based on the resolution voted on March 14, 2019, I would like to ask you three questions, Minister. What collaboration has been established between the Belgian services and the Land of North Rhine-Westphalia to identify persons receiving a pension linked to collaboration during the Second World War? What information has been received on the beneficiaries of these German pensions? Are there any actions and dialogue in preparation (unless this is already taking place) between Belgium, the German Federation and the various Länder to effectively stop the payment of pensions for crimes committed during the Second World War?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u10	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, it seems to me that my two colleagues have already made the context clear. Our interest today is to take stock with you of the resolution adopted in March aimed at putting an end to an unworthy practice: the payment to former employees of the Nazi pension scheme for services rendered. I want to say without a bad play of words "for mistreatment" as they are at the source of abuses, crimes against humanity and, in particular, against the Belgian population as a whole during the Second World War. In recent weeks, we have seen new revelations in the newspapers De Morgen and Het Laatste Nieuws which indicate, according to the figures of the German Secretary of State for Labour, Mrs Kerstin Griese, that 17 Belgians are among the 63 159 people receiving a German pension. Deputy Prime Minister, can you tell us what the situation is? What are the remaining difficulties? What progress have you been able to see through your government's action?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u11	Madam President, Minister, as the previous speakers have pointed out, recent reports, even in September 2019, on the so-called pensions for collaborators, raised a lot of questions, including in society. There is, of course, a lot to do about memory education. We also celebrate 75 years of Liberation in 2019. It is therefore very important at the moment to clarify very sensitive points. One of these points is the pensions which Belgians would receive from the German government and which relate either to being employed by the Third Reich or acquired on the basis of services or presences during the war period. The previous speakers have already asked for an explanation of the figures we have read in the media. I have two further questions. The resolution also calls for a bilateral scientific committee to be set up with the German partners, because they can work with us to clarify the matter. What is the state of play in this respect? We hear in various media that it is very often answered that for privacy reasons, among other reasons, information is not given. From Germany, transparency has come to an end. The transparency offered is good, but it only happens reluctantly. However, we also have information. I referred to a note from the scientific service of the German Parliament, which shows that the period spent in Belgian prison by a collaborator as a punishment for his voluntary entry into the German armed forces is included in the calculation of the German pension. The period of the actual sentence in Belgian prisons is also taken into account for the calculation of the German pension. Additional coefficients are even granted, so that this period is taken into account as an additional bonus in that German pension. These periods must be attested by the Belgian prison system, otherwise, of course, the German authorities will not be able to take them into account. That was actually followed administratively. I have obtained from the archive the information that was given to persons who thought they could benefit from a German pension. I read out what the question was and what the answer was. It's about a person from Antwerp who's retired since 1966. He states that in the years 1941 to 1945 he was with the Waffen SS and that in the years 1945 to 1950 he was in captivity and that those years were not accepted for retirement by the Belgian authorities. As a result, his pension has been reduced to the minimum. He asks what to do to receive a full pension. The answer is as follows: "In order to obtain an adjustment of your pension, you must submit a new application to the municipality where you explicitly state your services in the German army and the imprisonment effectively served. On the form you must also mention 'Application for a pension from the Federal Republic of Germany for services provided'. A reference to the legislation follows. So that's very administrative. These are individuals who, on the basis of this, also of our services, can ultimately bring their pension records into line. So we have that information. We can, of course, go to the German authorities, Minister, but the Belgian prison system may also have a list of those for whom it has attested that period so that they can obtain a pension. I think it is important that we clarify this, because victims of forced labour, for example, are only beginning to get a little satisfaction in the 21st century. That is why I think it is important for us to be honest about this. That is the first step towards the satisfaction of the victims and to be able to deal with that history in a good way.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, in order to move forward on this matter, since the vote on the resolution, I have instructed our diplomatic mission in Berlin to contact the competent German authorities in order to obtain further information on the war-pension beneficiaries granted by Germany to former Nazi collaborators in Belgium. According to data provided by the Ministry of Social Affairs of North Rhine-Westphalia, it appears that fourteen persons are beneficiaries of a pension in Belgium, according to the specifications of the Bundesversorgungsgesetz (BVG). Of these, eight are war invalids, and six are widows. Of the war invalids, seven had German nationality and had moved to Belgium after the war; only one person was Belgian. Of the six widows, half are German nationals. In the Federal Government's reply to Die Linke's parliamentary question in May 2019, it was mentioned that one of the recipients at the time was a former member of the Schutzstaffel, which is the SS in fact. The service for the payment of war pensions states that there are no indications for any of the recipients at present that they could lose the right to a benefit through involvement in violations of humanity or the rule of law, in line with § 1a of the Bundesversorgungsgesetz. In reply to the parliamentary question, the Federal Government did not respond to the suggestion that Germany would be willing to participate in a German-Belgian scientific committee with the aim of establishing the composition of the list of rightholders. The Federal Government did, however, point out the competence of the services at state level, which are responsible for the application of Paragraph 1a of the Bundesversorgungsgesetz, in addition to the notification that the complete documentation has been transferred to the Zentrale Stelle der Landesjustizverwaltungen zur Aufklärung nationalsozialister Verbrechen, the central body for the analysis of crimes committed under national socialism, and the Simon Wiesenthal Center. In addition to dealing with the relevant German authorities, I have also asked our embassy in Berlin to contact the embassies of other countries concerned in order to know what action they are taking on this issue. Apart from France and Luxembourg, which received assurances from the Ministry of Social Affairs of the Land of Saarland and that of Rhineland-Palatinate that none of the beneficiaries of German war pensions had committed a war crime, it appears that the problem of pensions is receiving less attention in Slovenia, the Netherlands and Canada. This is what I can tell you about the steps taken so far: we receive information from the Länder, since it is to them that the German Federal Government sends us back to get more information. We are also referring to the application of German regulations concerning war crimes or violations of the rule of law committed by persons receiving such pensions. We are trying to establish a scientific committee for the two countries. So far, however, I have not received an answer from Germany. However, this is a very important issue, including for the victims. We are trying to get all the information and I have provided you with the information I have received since March.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u13	Madam President, Minister, I am pleased to see that steps have been taken because, as my colleague has pointed out, it is essential today. We saw it with the breakthrough of the far right in our country, with the 75th anniversary of the liberation of the camps. It is essential to restore social, memorial and fiscal justice as well. I understand that the German Government has applied Article 1a of the German Federal Law which provides that pensions may not be granted to persons who have breached the humanitarian principle or who have been involved in crimes against humanity. These people cannot benefit from it. All the better except that there seems to be a problem with the goodwill set up by Germany in the sense that the German Government claims that all the information has been communicated to the competent authorities. That leaves me with enough dubitative. However, in our resolution we also called on the Belgian federal government to play an active role. I would therefore like us not to be content with the information that the German Government considers to have given you or not. The Belgian federal government also has a role to play. Similarly, at the parliamentary level, there may be something to be put in place when we know that the German Federal Members are currently working on a draft resolution. I appeal to my colleagues to go in the same direction. The Belgian parliamentarians who follow this file could come into contact with their German counterparts since, at the level of the German executive, things seem to be blocked.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u14	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answer. If we stick to the figures you have received, which relate only to Rhineland – different from the German Federation – only four Belgians would be involved, whereas the official German figures mentioned in response to the parliamentary question raised refer to seventeen Belgians. I can only deplore the partiality of the figures presented to us. On the one hand, I invite you to set up this bilateral scientific committee and, on the other hand, like my colleague, I invite you and we as federal parliamentarians to have this discussion with the German rapporteur who conducted this investigation. This would allow us to obtain the information directly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u15	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answers. I'll remember different things. The resolution adopted by the Belgian Federal Parliament in a very dignified manner has sprung up in neighbouring countries. We talked about Germany with actions of the Die Linke group. Furthermore, Pieter Omtzigt, a Dutch member of your political family, acted in the same direction. France asked Berlin questions to clarify the situation. This has also been a concern in Switzerland and Luxembourg. Moreover, I hear from my colleagues in the Council of Europe that we are trying to work within it on this issue. Belgium can be proud of what it has accomplished. On the other hand, it may be less so – I join my colleague Yasmine Kherbache – when we know that in the 1970s until the 1980s, the journals of former collaborators and former Waffen SS explained, word by word, all the administrative steps that had to be taken to obtain a revalorisation of his pension with the prison years that my colleague spoke of. It seems that our administration must have been involved in this shameful manoeuvre. I will, of course, ask the Minister of Justice a question whose historic responsibility it is, even if he is not himself responsible for the situation we have experienced. Finally, I will finish with the memory work. It's very important not to mess it up. I know that in every government, whatever it is, we always try to reduce a deficit. This is done through clear cuts, especially in relation to work on memory. I can only recommend to you, Minister, and to your government, that the committee referred to in the resolution be implemented. The resolution says that if there is no German agreement to set up a bilateral scientific committee, one can have a Belgian commission composed jointly of the various academic institutions. You should ensure that the historical cell of world conflicts, which has suffered a significant reduction in its numbers, is again better stocked. This would show that the work of memory is not gallved. My reply is a little long but it's really a sensitive and emotional file. You said, Minister, that there were fourteen people in Belgium. The press quoted the figure of seventeen. You say that there would be only one Belgian among the war invalids. But we must also know that, in the years 1941 and 1943, these collaborators could opt for German nationality, and that it was under the government of Konrad Adenauer in the 1950s that this German law, which allowed for dual nationality, or required German nationality, was implemented. So there's been a terrible unsaid for years. I sincerely believe that all States, which have participated, from close or far, directly or indirectly, consciously or unconsciously, in this, would have only one thing to do: to grow up today by the dignity and respect due to all the victims of this tragedy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I think you have understood that my question was motivated by the desire for maximum information and transparency to do justice to history, especially to the victims. This can be done on the basis of the administrative data available to us. That is why I asked about the figures of the Belgian prison system. I propose that I submit that question in writing, since you have not answered it. I will also address the question to Minister Geens, with a view to greater clarity. As my colleague said, I also think it is important to know the correct figures. Some people have lost Belgian nationality, others have automatically acquired German nationality. A scientific framework of that whole part of history would certainly be a huge step forward. I refer to the recent publication of Antwerp's rector and Professor Van Goethem on the role of the Antwerp police during the war years. What he describes still plays today and is very crucial. Because it is an academically substantiated publication of a professor, the facts are being objectiveized, which is very important. I think it is important to keep this dossier on the agenda. We ask for permanent pressure wherever possible. We must work together with parliamentarians from different countries on this. Minister, I am also counting on your commitment if you have any questions about this in your new position. One of your colleagues will defend European values. Well, I believe that this dossier is crucial in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u17	Madam President, Minister, two years ago, the Federal Parliament adopted a resolution calling on the government to condemn as strongly as possible all potential violations of the rights of LGBTQI people in Chechnya and to bring this point to European and international forums; and to contact the Russian authorities without delay in order to ask them to conduct independent investigations into allegations of abductions and homicides of homosexual men in their country, to ensure that anyone who could be found guilty or accomplice to these crimes is brought to justice and to immediately cease any legislation or practice that would justify discrimination based on sexual orientation. In December 2018, the rapporteur of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) responsible for investigating allegations of abuse in Chechnya submitted a report concluding that the Chechen authorities are still persecuting LGBT people, attacking human rights defenders and committing torture and other gross abuses, while the Russian government seems to support the perpetrators rather than the victims. Today, Human Rights Watch reveals that the Chechen police are still carrying out illegal arrests, beatings and humiliating acts against alleged homosexual or bisexual men. Minister, what steps have been taken by the government to implement the requests made in the resolution passed by Parliament on April 27, 2017? What analysis do you make of the investigations that were allegedly conducted by the Russian authorities in the spring of 2018? What obstacles would they still face today in the conduct of a rigorous investigation into allegations of abuses committed against homosexuals in Chechnya, but also against those who defend them (including NGOs) and the repression of its perpetrators since the last OSCE investigation in November/December 2018? Is there any consultation between the various countries of the European Union, the United States and Canada in order to put pressure on the Russian authorities to do so? Is there any reflection within the federal government on day-to-day affairs regarding the possibility of granting humanitarian visas to victims or persons threatened with persecution? In April 2018, five visas had been issued by Belgium to Chechen nationals.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u18	Mrs Rohonyi, the deterioration of human rights in the Russian Federation and Chechnya – including the increasing discrimination faced by LGBTQI people – is a major concern of Belgium. Moreover, we have already discussed this in this committee several times in recent years. This issue is closely followed by our posts in Moscow and St. Petersburg as well as by the Permanent Representations to the Council of Europe in Strasbourg and the OSCE in Vienna, as well as by my services in Brussels. Follow-up contacts have been established with members of Russian civil society, including several organisations that fight against discrimination against LGBTQI people. Our support is also expressed through concrete actions such as the participation of our services in events organized on the occasion of the International Day to Combat Homophobia and Transphobia. Due to the numerous testimonies of human rights violations in Chechnya, we are working with other countries – including the European Union's partners – to examine which international instruments we can use from the United Nations, the Council of Europe or the OSCE to ensure that the Russian Federation complies with its international human rights obligations throughout its territory, including in the North Caucasus. In its external policy, the European Union and its Member States draw up guidelines to promote and ensure respect for all the fundamental rights of LGBTQI people. On a number of occasions, I have had the opportunity to express our concerns about human rights in Russia and Chechnya – especially for this minority – during my talks with my Russian counterpart. I will continue to do so on every occasion. Within the OSCE, several initiatives have been taken to this end. Thus, the situation of human rights violations in Chechnya has been regularly raised. In addition, the Vienna Mechanism was activated at the Permanent Council on 30 August 2018. However, in view of the lack of follow-up to the procedures for this mechanism, a group of 16 countries – of which Belgium is a member, at its request – decided to launch the Moscow mechanism at the Permanent Council on 1 November 2018. An expert mission has been appointed to investigate and make recommendations in response to human rights violations and abuses in Chechnya. The OSCE rapporteur, Mr Wolgang Benedek, published his report at the end of December. The document is available on the OSCE website. Within the framework of the annual European Conference on Human Rights and Democracy, organized in September this year by the Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), Belgium, in its capacity as co-initiator of the Moscow Mechanism, supported the joint declaration of the co-activating States of the Mechanism on human rights violations in Chechnya. This statement reiterates our continuing concern about respect for the rights of the LGBTQI community and calls once again on the Russian Federation to act, without further delay, on the recommendations of the rapporteur of the Moscow Mechanism. In the same context, Belgium co-sponsored a side event on combating impunity for human rights violations and abuses in Chechnya. The situation and protection of the rights of people in the LGBTQI community is one of the priority issues on which the Council of Europe is actively working. A statement by the European Union was made at the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe on 30 January this year. The European Union and its Member States have reiterated their great concern at recent reports, which report new cases of arrests, torture and murders of Chechens because of their sexual orientation. The European Union urges Russia to comply with its obligations as a member of the Council of Europe and calls on Russia to conduct an independent investigation promptly so that the perpetrators of such acts are truly tried. The increase in the number of homophobic acts in Europe was addressed from the first committee of ministers in September by the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe, followed by many Member States, including Belgium. On 5 November, the French Presidency will organise a committee of informal ministers on respect for LGBTQI people, at the request of Finland, supported by Belgium. Belgium is also active in the Equal Rights Coalition, which published on 23 January (as it had already done in 2017) a statement on the current situation in Chechnya. It once again urges the Russian authorities to take urgent steps to respond to this wave of violations of the rights of LGBTQI people in Chechnya. It calls for the immediate release of any person detained because of his sexual orientation or gender identity and calls for an impartial, thorough and prompt investigation of the persecutions carried out in order to hold those who have ordered and committed these acts accountable. Finally, it reminds Russia of its obligation to ensure that equal treatment is granted to all minorities and, in particular, to the LGBTQI community, whose protection we call for through the actions of the Federation. Your question of humanitarian visas falls within the competence of the Minister of Social Affairs and Public Health and the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. Individual cases are examined. I would add that during various visits to Moscow, I was able to meet with NGOs active in this field of protection of minorities and, in particular, those of the LGBTQI community. I'm thinking about the NGO Memorial.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u19	Minister, thank you. I understand that many measures have been taken both internally and in consultation with other European countries and that, despite the blockage of some EU countries, Belgium has chosen to be proactive in this area. You have to be honest to say hello to him. As far as humanitarian visas are concerned, I understand that the matter is not within your competence. I will therefore ask Minister De Block about this, because it seems to me that this trail must be explored and even more so at a time when there is no objective procedure for granting these humanitarian visas. The DéFI Group has also tabled a bill to this effect. Pending an objectivation of these criteria, it would be interesting to take into account the reality and the living and treatment conditions which some people unfortunately encounter in Chechnya. For the rest, I welcome the efforts undertaken and I invite you, above all, to continue them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u20	Minister, the unrest in Hong Kong, which started and continues on 9 June, is threatening to escalate more and more. With the first mass demonstration against a controversial extradition law that would make it possible to extradite suspects from Hong Kong to China, the population was on the streets massively. That happened four months ago. Despite the fact that the governor declared the extradition law dead a month later, the spirit was out of the bottle and the protests, demonstrations and strikes continue until today. This has its origins in a struggle against a very long process of embedding by China. The general demands made by the people of Hong Kong include less interference from China, an independent investigation into police violence, the resignation of the governor appointed by China and not immediately seem to defend the interests of the people of Hong Kong, and genuine democratic elections. The dialogue between the governor, on the one hand, and the people of Hong Kong, on the other, seems virtually nonexistent. Not only is the leadership in Hong Kong speaking louder to the protesters, also from China trying to increase the pressure further. The fight by the Hong Kong police forces against their own people is constantly being tackled and the demonstrators are being brutally tackled. It seems more and more that terror is being perpetrated on one's own population and one fears, on the ground and internationally, even for a second Tiananmen scenario. In the meantime, we were able to hear this the day before yesterday, and the fear of military intervention from China is increasing. I would like to ask you the following questions, Minister. Has the Belgian Government taken an official position on this matter? If so, what is the position? If not, why not? What steps has Belgian diplomacy taken or is it taking in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u21	Mr President, Mrs Ponthier, from the start of the protests I myself and my services closely follow the situation in Hong Kong. This is done through our Consulate General on the ground and in close consultation with our European allies. In line with the principle of 'one country, two systems', my services stressed to the Hong Kong authorities last July the importance that Belgium attaches to respect for fundamental freedoms, such as the right to peaceful protest and the right to freedom of expression. Those rights and freedoms of the citizens of Hong Kong, as enshrined in the so-called basic law, Basic Law, must be safeguarded now and also in the future. This position is fully in line with the various statements already made by the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs, Federica Mogherini. The EU remains the most appropriate and effective channel for calling for peaceful dialogue and respect for fundamental freedoms in Hong Kong. Following the grim escalation of violence on 1 October on the occasion of the celebration of the 70th anniversary of the People's Republic of China, the High Representative Federica Mogherini, at the request of Belgium, sent a new call for restraint, de-escalation and respect for fundamental rights and freedoms. I can assure you that we will continue to monitor developments in Hong Kong, including the potential impact on the security of our citizens and on our economic interests. We shall do so in consultation with our European colleagues, which, in my opinion, is the best way to exert real pressure on the authorities there.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. We see that 'one country, two systems' for the situation in Hong Kong and China does not always work as it should. Europe has recently said that the situation is extremely worrying. You have stressed this, and you say that steps have already been taken in the diplomatic field. I would ask you to continue to urge the EU to be proactive, for various reasons. First of all, of course, for economic reasons. There are many European, and also Flemish, business people who look forward to the uncertain atmosphere and consequently the unstable business environment on the ground with great distrust. They ask the Belgian Government for a clear position on this matter. It is also, of course, a matter of respecting human rights. Moreover, there is the call for more democracy, because that is what it is all about in the end. Especially many young people born after 1997, who do not carry the legacy of the past, demonstrate against the way things are going, against China's interference. The events are such that these young people will continue to persevere and will not give up the fight. We saw that earlier this week. I therefore dare to ask you, on behalf of the government, to show more decisiveness where possible, and to strongly condemn the outright terror which the Chinese elite, through the leadership in Hong Kong, is exerting on its own population, with the threat of military repression in recent days, and to persuade other partners to do the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u23	Minister, for many years, my group has been active on the issues of fair trade and the establishment of a genuine binding Business and Human Rights Plan. Indeed, it is a question of ensuring that our economic exchanges are fair and do not maintain inequalities, poverty or sometimes conflicts. Many public authorities show credible signs of their willingness to use trade as a lever for development and reducing inequalities. For example, in Belgium, nearly 200 municipalities have already received the title of fair trade commune and a resolution to this effect was adopted under the previous legislature, on the initiative of my colleague Gwenaëlle Grovonius. In 2017, the federal government took note of the National Business and Human Rights Action Plan. The plan is aimed at implementing the United Nations guiding principles in this context. While this plan is an important initiative, we must note that it remains largely based on voluntary business initiatives. A sector that is regularly pointed out is cocoa production. To name but a few, the cocoa industry illustrates the need for laws that force multinationals to become more transparent and accountable for their social and environmental practices. Minister, what is your assessment of the Business and Human Rights Plan? In collaboration with the SPF Économie and your colleague in charge of foreign trade, does your administration develop ways to strengthen it, like what exists in France for example? Does Belgium plead this in the European Council? Is there any more specific reflection on the cocoa sector? Finally, during your annual presentation of our trade report, are you committed to providing qualitative – and not just quantitative – indicators of our trade in the light of the challenges of protecting human rights, social and environmental standards, and business due diligence?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u24	Mr Lacroix, the implementation of the national action plan is the subject of an annual evaluation within the Interdepartmental Commission on Sustainable Development. This commission brings together representatives of the federal and regional administrations responsible for implementing Belgium's sustainable development policy abroad. Its evaluation results in a progress report published on the committee's website, which is attached to the committee's annual report to Parliament. An evaluation of the national action plan itself is planned three years after the date on which it was approved by the Government. At that time, the plan itself can be adapted and updated. On 23 May 2019, my department organized a meeting between the stakeholders of the Belgian national action plan which allowed to evaluate the first national plan and propose actions for the next one. The report of this consultation was also published. Beyond the national level, our country systematically advocates a strong European commitment in the field of enterprise and human rights. On 23 May, Belgium, together with the European External Action Service, the European Commission and Finland, organised an international meeting on the implementation of the United Nations principles on business and human rights. It brought together national experts from more than 30 States, the Council of Europe, the European Union, the OECD and the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. The objective of the exercise was to assess the latest developments in national action plans and their complementarity with other means, to put into practice the principles of the United Nations, to discuss the challenges in the implementation of those plans and to support those Member States that have not yet drawn up such a plan. With regard to the cocoa sector, which you mentioned in particular, a broad multi-stakeholder reflection at Belgian level led to the launch of the Beyond Chocolate initiative at the end of 2018, the partnership for a sustainable Belgian chocolate. This commitment in a sector particularly important for Belgium aims to strengthen respect for human rights throughout the value chain. The Beyond Chocolate initiative focuses on four priorities: improving the income and working conditions of cocoa producers, with particular attention to gender issues; schooling of children and the eradication of child labour; sustainable improvement of climate-resistant crops; maintaining biodiversity, reducing deforestation and, where possible, reforestation. The signatories of the Beyond Chocolate initiative have committed themselves to achieving 100% sustainable cocoa in Belgium by 2025 and to improving the vital income of 275,000 cocoa producers by 2030. A fund is set up by the Belgian State to finance projects to this end. On the occasion of an economic mission to Côte d'Ivoire, we had organized an event with the Ivorian authorities on this subject. Finally, with regard to the progress report on trade treaties, we are not just focusing on quantitative aspects. On the contrary, a large part is already devoted to the values that European trade policy must promote, which must be at the service of a gradual and sustainable transition. In this regard, Belgium plays an active role in strengthening the chapter on sustainable development of trade agreements. In this context, we are working for coherence between trade policy and climate requirements, for example by anchoring the Paris agreements in the new trade agreements. These qualitative aspects are also addressed in the annual report on trade treaties, which will shortly be discussed in this committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u25	Minister, thank you for these precise and reasoned answers. I'll write down two things. First of all, if I understand correctly, the Paris agreements become binding when trade agreements are signed. I recall that, when President Macron denounces the Mercosur Treaty, he relies on a decision by Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro that aims to not follow the Paris agreements, not to respect the Amazon and to adopt a policy contrary to respect for biodiversity. These are obviously very noble objectives because the climate issues are very important. But, besides that, there are these social goals and human rights. In the long run, I would like human rights and social objectives to become binding elements in trade agreements, which is not the case at present. I imagine that the only Belgium cannot do everything and be the vigilante, alone and isolated in this world. I plead that she should be able to make this speech and obtain a European consensus so that she can, step by step, build a better world and a better business world, especially with respect for human rights, which I know is of particular interest to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u26	Minister, in mid-August, the German Government, through Angela Merkel and Minister for the Interior Horst Seehofer, expressed its opinion on a new so-called European rescue mission in the Mediterranean, following the example of Operation Sophia. The mission launched by the EU in 2015 with the initial aim of combating trafficking in human beings turned out to be mainly a type of ferry service in which nearly 50 000 illegal immigrants were transferred to Europe by European naval vessels. This led to an increasing number of protests from certain Member States and ultimately the reason why the operation was stopped earlier this year. Would you have informed me if you were aware of the German initiative? Is this another solo initiative or has this case been discussed with other EU Member States? Are you aware of a possible restart of the Sophia operation, or has it already been discussed at European level? How are you and/or the government facing a resumption of Operation Sophia? Do you consider reactivation desirable? If the plans are already concrete, what commitment is expected from the Belgian army?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u27	Mrs Samyn, neither on a bilateral level nor within the EU, was Belgium informed of a possible German initiative. Operation Sophia was set up to combat trafficking in human beings by taking action against the criminal network, with the aim of disrupting their business model. The operation remains active in the region with a greater focus on observation and surveillance, despite the temporary suspension of the deployment of ships. By supporting the capacity building of the Libyan Coast Guard, with emphasis on respect for human rights and the proper treatment of migrants refugees, the operation contributes positively to maritime security. On 12 September, Europe decided to extend the Sophia operation for six months without deploying ships. We remain in the same situation of observation and surveillance, but without the development of ships. Belgium is not currently contributing to the Sophia operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u28	Minister, the Sophia operation was set up at the time to reduce migration from Libya and to tackle trafficking in human beings. Unfortunately, in practice, it was different and it was mainly that smugglers sent the people into the sea in ever-smart vessels, knowing that they would be fished by European ships. There is no way that European ships should re-enter the European continent as a ferry service to bring illegal immigrants to Europe's mainland.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u29	Minister, in December last year, then Commissioner Dimitris Avramopoulos advocated that as many Member States as possible, in the framework of a "coalition of willing countries', should voluntarily develop a system that regulates who in future will take in migrants who have been picked up in the Mediterranean and are brought to the European continent. When Romania, as the then EU President-in-Office of the Council, put such a plan on the table in mid-June, there was criticism from all sides. According to the German newspaper Die Welt in mid-July, it could only count on support from Germany, France, the Netherlands, Ireland and Belgium. Meanwhile, a German-French initiative for a voluntary and temporary distribution mechanism followed, which was the subject of an informal meeting of EU Interior Ministers in mid-July. Afterwards, the German Minister said he was quite optimistic that a comparison could be found by the beginning of September, at a new special meeting in Malta. According to the French President Macron, 14 Member States would now agree in principle to support the Franco-German proposal. Of these eight countries would have declared themselves willing to cooperate actively, while six other countries had so far only agreed in principle. Is the report by Die Welt that the Belgian Government has supported the Romanian proposal? If so, what was the proposal? Was the Belgian Government represented at the meeting in Helsinki in mid-July and a few days later in Paris? If so, what position has the Belgian Government taken there? Is Belgium among the 14 Member States willing to support the Franco-German proposal? If so, did Belgium declare itself willing to participate actively in the distribution mechanism or is there only an agreement in principle? Was Belgium represented at the special meeting in Malta at the end of September? If so, what was the attitude and position of the Belgian Government on this whole issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u30	Ms Samyn, on 26 June, the Romanian Presidency presented its report on the temporary evacuation arrangements to Coreper, the meeting of EU ambassadors. This document proposes a number of elements to be met by a possible system of temporary removal arrangements, as well as the general structure and principles. The progress report shall include, inter alia, the conditions under which the temporary mechanism can be launched, the division of tasks between Member States and the European institutions, as well as the persons eligible for relocation. It is a non-binding document which was not formally submitted to the Member States for approval. An informal Justice and Home Affairs Council was held in Helsinki on 18 and 19 July. An informal working meeting was then held in Paris on 22 July, on the initiative of France, on temporary departure arrangements for the Mediterranean. During this meeting, the French-German proposal on unloading was put forward. Belgium was represented at both meetings. At the Paris meeting, I stressed for our country that we are in favour of structural solutions to tackle migration challenges. We are prepared to examine temporary deportation arrangements pending a structural solution, provided that there is a balance between solidarity and responsibility. Such talks should in no way prevent negotiations on the reform of the Common European Asylum System. Since the network for migrant reception in Belgium is currently saturated due to the considerable migratory pressure of recent months and the government without a majority in Parliament is on-going, I have stressed that our country cannot enter into additional commitments in the current circumstances. At the Paris meeting, eight Member States agreed to cooperate on the French-German proposal. In addition to France and Germany, Portugal, Luxembourg, Finland, Lithuania, Croatia and Ireland are involved. A new meeting between like-minded countries took place in Valletta on 23 September. At this meeting, France, Germany, Italy and Malta agreed on an amended version of the Paris Declaration. The Commission and the Finnish Presidency were also present at this ministerial meeting. Our country was not represented at this meeting. Malta's declaration was submitted to EU Interior Ministers at the JHA Council meeting on 8 October. However, without accepting the agreement, Belgium welcomed the agreement reached in Malta and expressed the hope that this would be a step towards a more structural reform of the Common European Asylum System. We look forward to the proposals that the new Commission will put forward in this regard. Belgium has pointed out that due to the state of current affairs and the high number of asylum applications in our country in the first half of 2019, our country had the fifth highest number of applications per head of population at present unable to make any additional commitments regarding relocation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u31	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am already somewhat pleased to hear that there will be no additional requests in this respect. As you yourself pointed out, we are one of the few European countries where the number of asylum applications has increased by 20% in the last year. So it is certainly not up to Belgium to take on additional asylum seekers. The creation of yet another initiative would give the impression that the crossing would have to be taken. This not only facilitates illegal immigration, it also sends out a message of hope, which leads people to cross the road, thereby risking unnecessary human lives.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u32	Madam President, Minister, this issue dates back this summer but remains relevant. According to various sources, 12 million hectares of forests have gone into smoke since the beginning of the year in Siberia. These fires obviously have a direct impact on the health of the region's inhabitants, but they also play a dramatic role in the vicious circle of global warming. This causes increased droughts that are conducive to the expansion of fires, fires that cause an increase in the amount of CO2 in the atmosphere, an increase in CO2 that helps to further deregulate the climate and so on... In this case, the smoke went to some ice in the Arctic Ocean and accelerated their melting, which itself accelerates warming. The origin of these fires seems natural. On the other hand, the emergency management by the Russian authorities has been criticized at various levels. It has been estimated by various civil society analysts, the media and others that the Russian authorities have been slow to unlock the necessary means to control the fires. The Russian authorities allegedly considered that the cost of the intervention was higher than the losses to be expected, so it was not profitable to extinguish the fires. Have you undertaken to express our concern to the Russian authorities about the impacts of these fires that go far beyond the Russian borders? How do you analyse fire management by the Russian authorities and, if so, how did you communicate your analysis to these authorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u33	Madam President, Madame de Laveleye, indeed several fires ravaged Siberia this summer. Natural and human factors are at the root of this. The state of emergency had been declared throughout the territory of Krasnoyarsk and in the Republic of Sakha. Little information comes to us but the fires would no longer be active or, at least, under control. The Russian government has announced measures to ensure that a scenario such as the one that occurred in July does not recur: satellite surveillance, forest monitoring system, purchase of water bombers. It was to be hoped that those measures would be sufficient to avoid such situations in the future. Apart from the specific situation in Siberia, our country is strongly engaged internationally in the fight against global warming and, through international financial instruments such as the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Global Environment Facility, as well as through the action of the European Union and the various regional development banks. I had the opportunity to intervene on this issue of fires when the situation in the Amazon was discussed at the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union. In the context of this Council, I insisted that the steps should not be limited to Amazonia. We were particularly concerned about the situation in sub-Saharan Africa with equally dramatic events in terms of fire but also on the European continent in the broad sense, going as far as the Asian continent and the situation in Siberia. If initiatives are taken, they are mainly taken at European level. It is at this level that we have made our remarks with the will that the actions undertaken on the international scene concern not only the Amazon but also other areas, including Siberia. The Nexus Climate-Security is one of the priorities of the Belgian mandate in the UN Security Council where Belgium is trying to draw the attention of other members, including Russia, to the negative impact of climate change on international security. I personally participated in a Security Council debate at ministerial level on this issue Climate Security and Change. I confess that there is work to be done to convince all members, including the Permanent Council, to make systematic progress in this direction. I repeat, as I said on other subjects earlier: in such a matter, our action is primarily through cooperation within the European Union, an approach that we are taking with the European Union towards the partner countries.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u34	Mr Minister, you are right to say that we must be proactive at European level in managing these various environmental and ecological disasters. I will not say any more at this stage, because I have another question that is on the agenda and which deals with the same subject and which you have answered in part. If the president allows, then I will follow up on my second question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u35	Madam President, I should like to mention that Mr Wouter De Vriendt is represented for our committee in Geneva. If I may, he asked me to take up part of his question specifically on the Amazon in my speech. Minister, according to the National Institute for Space Research (INPE), 72,000 forest fires were detected in Brazil between January and August this year, it is the highest number since this type of systematic satellite observations began, i.e. in 2013. According to INPE, satellite data show an 83% increase in forest fires this year compared to the same period in 2018. In addition, INPE warns about the state of destruction of the Amazon forest. It estimates an increase in deforestation between 2018 and 2019 of 34% for the month of May, an increase of 88% for the month of June and an increase of 278% for the month of July. There is a consensus among experts that this increase in fires is, at least in part, the result of the deforestation policy supported by President Bolsonaro for the benefit of intensive agriculture. Minister, what have you been able to do at the diplomatic level to express our concern and concern to the Brazilian authorities? Does this prompt you to question imports of Brazilian agricultural products into Belgium. As a reminder, according to the report of the Agency for External Trade (2017), Belgium accounted for 8.8% of Brazilian imports into the European Union, and was the sixth largest importing country in the Union. According to this report, more than a quarter of imports are food products, to which must be added other crops and wood products (about 10%) and other mining products, which account for more than 30% of imports and which are directly related to the intensive exploitation of the Amazonian forest. Will the management of Mr Bolsonaro's at least negligent Amazon forest motivate you to refuse the support of Belgium for the free trade agreements between the European Union and Mercosur, at least that we do not have all the guarantees regarding Brazil's compliance with its commitments to climate, biodiversity and respect for human rights? Finally, what are the links between the United Nations Security Council and climate change? You started answering the question about Siberia earlier. Does Belgium intend to put this item on the Council's agenda?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u36	Madame de Laveleye, as I said in response to your previous question, Belgium is deeply concerned about all the fires in recent months, particularly in the Amazon. These fires affect much of South America. Our country is strongly committed to the fight against global warming, including through the international financial instruments I have cited, such as the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, the Climate Fund and the Global Environment Facility. We are also collaborating with the various regional funds, notably through the European Union's action in various regional development banks. I come to Brazil in particular. In recent months, our country has been involved in a number of initiatives and initiatives related to maintaining the country in the Paris Agreement and its engagement in the conferences of Parties 24 and 25, as well as on issues related to UNFCCC. Belgium will continue to keep this subject on the agenda in its contacts with Brazil and through the various multilateral forums. In addition, the Bolivian authorities have appealed to the International Community to assist them in the fight against fires in their territory. Through a European Commission cooperation mechanism, our country sent relief supplies and sent 336 tents, 14 generators and 672 mosquito nets to the affected territories. These properties have helped Bolivian civil protection rescuers in their fight against forest fires. The FPS Foreign Affairs coordinated the Belgian First Aid & Support Team (B-FAST) mission dear to your president. As far as the October European Council is concerned, the item is not formally on the agenda. Nothing would prevent it from being addressed, but you know that a particularly urgent subject will be on the table, Brexit. But there is nothing to prevent Heads of State and Government from addressing other issues if they have the opportunity to do so. The subject has, of course, been discussed several times at European level in recent times. Climate security nexus is one of the priorities of the Belgian mandate in the UN Security Council. Together with a group of friends, our country is trying to make the theme more effective in the discussions in the Security Council. After all, climate change has a negative leverage effect on the risk of international conflicts. On 25 January 2019, therefore, I personally participated in the debate on climate and security in New York. In addition, Belgium contributes to the operation of the Climate Security Mechanism. This entity is composed of staff from three UN organisations and should provide the Security Council with information on the security implications of climate change. Finally, Belgium contributed to the climate action summit in New York in September. Our country stressed the EU's long-term strategy for climate neutrality, committed itself to climate finance and showed itself to be active on ocean, climate and security. Not all imports of agricultural products, wood and mining products come from the geographical Amazon. Brazil's exports are subject to verifications and certifications controlled by the Brazilian and European authorities. The fight against fraud is at the heart of our concerns, with or without a trade agreement. Whether there is a Mercosur agreement or not, this concern remains. As I said earlier, a choice will have to be made. The debate on Mercosur will continue for a long time. The agreement in principle reached between the European Commission and the Mercosur countries had been under negotiation for twenty years. The management of the Brazilian government does not question our willingness to participate and reach an ambitious and multifaceted association agreement with the countries of the South American cone. The problem is whether this agreement will provide us with a framework to regulate and develop our trade and political relations, as well as our cooperation, but above all whether it will give us a sufficiently important and effective environmental and climate lever to ensure that the Brazilian government or any other partner in the region respects its obligations in these areas. It is this debate that will take place; it will be a question of ascertaining to what extent the agreement can lead to such a situation or whether it should not be undertaken in the light of developments in the region. I have not given all the elements beyond the agricultural sector before, because your question is more specifically about the environmental aspect, but the same analyses and debates will have to take place. It is always the same choice in trade agreements: whether they give us additional leverage to act on these matters or whether it is better to remain in the current situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u37	Minister, thank you very much for your answers. However, you did not directly answer my question about your diplomatic initiatives. My group and, I suppose, other groups are being called upon by many Brazilian, Belgian and European organisations to consider the need for a diplomatic focus that is strong enough to protect the defenders of the Amazon forest and the peoples who live there. That is why we believe that it is essential to use diplomatic channels in order to put pressure on Mr Bolsonaro. As such, we will be pleased to invite to the House representatives of indigenous communities who are trying to stay alive in order to continue their fight in the defence of the Amazon forest. Our concern therefore persists. Moreover, our little Belgium must play a commercial role. You tell us that imported products are controlled. However, you know as well as I do that many analyses from civil society show that these audits are not exhaustive. Large quantities disembarking at us indeed pass through the meshes of the net. That is why we ask you to strengthen as far as possible the control of these imported products. In addition, please pay attention to Mr Bolsonaro's "good words" if he says he is ready to negotiate free trade agreements. We strongly fear that they will not live up to what the agricultural and citizen populations of Brazil and Belgium are entitled to expect.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u38	Mr Minister, on 2 August the United States terminated the Treaty on Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces (the so-called "INF Treaty") of 1987. The treaty, negotiated and signed by US President Ronald Reagan and Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev, had resulted in the destruction of approximately 2,700 missiles with a range of 500 to 5,000 km. They were Soviet missiles, as well as Persian II ballistic missiles and American Griffon cruise missiles, deployed in Belgium. However, the race for new missiles has now been revived. After ending the INF Treaty, the United States conducted its first mid-range missile test on Sunday, August 18th since the Cold War. New missile projects have already begun. I therefore ask you the following questions: has the Belgian defence studied the potential risks to national security of a new nuclear arms race following the dissolution of the INF Treaty? If so, what are these risks, particularly on the Russian side but also on the Chinese side? Did Belgium receive requests from the United States to install new nuclear cruise missiles in Belgium, as it had accepted in 1984 before the conclusion of the INF Treaty? What concrete steps have Belgium and NATO taken towards Russia and the United States to avoid a new nuclear arms race outside the INF Treaty? Finally, given that a report by the NATO Parliamentary Assembly states that Belgium will have to deal with the modernization of the B61 bombs stationed in Kleine-Brogel, what assurances can the federal government give against the deployment of new missiles ranging from 500 to 5,500 km in Belgium as in the 1980s? How can we guard against a new Euro-missile crisis in Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u39	Madam President, Mr Cogolati, on 1 February 2019, the United States formally announced its withdrawal from the Treaty on Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces following Russia's non-compliance with this Treaty, with six months' notice. As expressed in a communiqué of 2 August, Belgium deplores the disappearance of the Treaty. The signing of the treaty in 1987 was a milestone in nuclear disarmament. For more than 30 years, the Treaty has contributed to Euro-Atlantic security through the verifiable destruction of nearly 3,000 conventional and nuclear missiles. Unfortunately, Russia has not responded to repeated international calls to resume the fulfilment of its treaty obligations. The Treaty was also put on the agenda of the NATO-Russia Council, but without results. That is what leads to the dissolution of the treaty. As a member of NATO, Belgium stresses the major importance of strategic stability, nuclear arms control and nuclear disarmament as an essential element of our international security. As the Secretary-General of NATO said, a new arms race is in no one's interest. It is therefore essential that the United States and Russia engage in constructive dialogue and agree on stabilization and confidence-building measures. I have therefore called on the two countries, together with several colleagues, to take initiatives leading to a reduction of their nuclear arsenals covering all types of weapons systems. With regard to deployed strategic nuclear weapons, it is important that the New Start Treaty be extended beyond its current expiry date in 2021. The United States and Russia must engage in an active dialogue on this issue. In NATO, where the analyses are being carried out, studies are under way to analyse the security implications of the alliance of the disappearance of the treaty and, where appropriate, to propose measures to ensure the credibility of deterrence. Belgium has not received any request from the United States for a possible installation of nuclear cruise missiles on Belgian soil.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u40	Minister, thank you for your answer. Indeed, I also think that a new arms race is in no one's interest, especially in Europe. I am also pleased to hear you say that the New Start Treaty must be extended. I hear that a request was fortunately not sent by the United States. In my view, it is important to ensure that Belgium refuses to take part in any new nuclear arms race from anywhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u41	Madam President, Minister, this question is a little more specific about an international arbitration case against Belgium. This procedure was registered on 29 June 2017 before the International Centre for the Settlement of Investment Disputes (IIRDI). This application opposes Belgium to DP World PLC following a decision by the port of Antwerp to resume a concession of the domain to that company. On 20 April, you answered a parliamentary question on this subject. You had the opportunity to present the litigation and the status of the arbitration. Since then, the procedure has come its way. I would therefore like to ask you some new questions. Why has Belgium accepted international arbitration before ICSID? In the context of the international reform of foreign investment arbitration, does Belgium plead that access to a public court on arbitration should be possible only after the domestic remedies have been exhausted? Does Belgium also plead that this court should be open to all stakeholders, as the Walloon government committed itself to it in its political declaration? What stage in the arbitration process are we at? What are the legal bases of DP World to tackle Belgium? What is the composition of the arbitration committee? Who has Belgium appointed since it was able to appoint the chair of the committee and an arbitrator? What is the amount of the costs already paid by the Belgian State to defend itself? What financial compensation should Belgium face if arbitration is to be unfavourable to it? Finally, in your answer to the parliamentary question on the subject, you stated that "the cost of this procedure depends on several parameters which cannot yet be estimated in detail". Can you tell us what these different parameters are?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u42	Madam President, Mr Cogolati, the agreement between the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union and the United Arab Emirates on the encouragement and mutual protection of investments serves as a consent to an international arbitration procedure with the International Centre for the Settlement of Investment Disputes. This agreement was signed in 2004 and ratified by this Assembly and the respective Assemblies of the three Regions. Article 12 provides that a dispute concerning investments between an investor of one of the Contracting Parties and the other Contracting Party, which has not found an amicable settlement, may be referred to international arbitration at ICSID. In the current proceedings, after the written exchanges and oral arguments that took place last June, the two parties will now hold a final written exchange focusing on the oral arguments of the pleadings. The court's decision on its jurisdiction, as well as on the substance of the dispute, is expected around mid-2020. The legal basis of DP World is numerous and can be divided into three parts. DP World claims: first, to have been the victim of unlawful expropriation and without compensation for its investment, on the basis of Article 7 of the Agreement between the Belgian-Luxembourg Economic Union and the Emirates; second, to have been treated unfairly and unfairly, on the basis of Article 3, first, of the same Agreement; third, to have been subjected to arbitrary, unjustified and discriminatory treatment, on the basis of Article 3, second, of the same Agreement. The Belgian State contests all these arguments as well as the admissibility of the application before the court. The members of the tribunal are Professor Juan Fernàndez-Armesto (President), Dr Stanimir Alexandrov (Arbitrator appointed by DP World) and Professor Brigitte Stern (Arbitrator appointed by the Belgian State). The Belgian authorities concerned have agreed on the organisation of the defence of the Belgian State and the related expenditure. The Federal Government has so far not incurred any costs in the ongoing proceedings and such expenses are not foreseen in the future. DP World claims to have suffered significant financial losses as a result of the decision of the port of Antwerp. However, it must be made clear that it will be up to the court to decide on the amount finally awarded, and only if it gives the company first reason. This will then be the subject of a new procedure before ICSID, in which DP World should demonstrate in detail the height of its losses. The elements that DP World would like to highlight are not clear at this stage. I recall that we are challenging not only the elements put forward by DP World, but also the application for admissibility in court. As a member of the United Nations Commission on International Investment Protection Reform, Belgium is actively involved in this reform and fully supports the establishment of a multilateral court of public and permanent investment, with an appeal mechanism. In this context, the clarifications and guidance provided by the Court of Justice of the European Union in its opinion 1/17 should be duly taken into account. It highlighted guarantees and conditions to be fulfilled for compatibility with Union law. One is that investment courts are not empowered to interpret or apply provisions of Union law other than those of the international agreement establishing them. In the context of CETA, the Court considers that this condition is fulfilled because the ICS courts are outside the Union's judicial system and their competence to interpret is limited to the provisions of CETA. In the light of this reasoning, the Court states that it is consistent that CETA does not provide for any procedure for prior involvement of the Court of Justice of the European Union. It also considers it consistent that CETA does not allow an investor to bring the same dispute before a court of a State or before the Court of Justice of the European Union. The issue of opening up the future multilateral investment court to all stakeholders requires further work and reflection. A Belgian and European position in this regard is currently being defined.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u43	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. This case illustrates how vulnerable even our country can be to complaints brought by multinationals under this kind of investment treaty and subject to the decision of entirely private arbitrators. I therefore support the reform of this system and hope that we will move towards a more public, permanent system with an appeal mechanism.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u44	Minister, on August 9, the TEPCO company operating the Fukushima nuclear power plant site announced that within three years, the site would no longer be able to store radioactive water. A government-mandated panel of experts, which includes IAEA members, has made a series of proposals in this regard. Among them, the idea of pouring water into the Pacific Ocean for several years. It goes without saying that this option raises a great deal of concern, particularly with regard to the consequences of radioactive fumes on biodiversity and the food chain. Since the 2011 nuclear disaster, 23 States, including South Korea, have imposed an embargo on imports of certain food products from areas close to the site. Minister, given the evidence presented, there are some questions for Belgium. As the world's ninth largest importer of Japanese products, has Belgium investigated the potential health risks associated with the consumption of agricultural and fishery products from northeastern Japan? What are the conclusions? What position do you intend to adopt following the recent WTO conclusions? Do Belgium and the European Union have any levers, through the many existing bilateral agreements, to prevent the dumping of radioactive water in the Pacific?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u45	Mr Cogolati, following the Fukushima disaster, Belgium has put in place specific health controls targeting imports from Japan under the EU Implementing Regulation 2016/6 imposing special conditions on imports of food and feed originating in or coming from Japan following the accident at the Fukushima nuclear power plant, as amended by Commission Implementing Regulation 2017/2058 of 10 November 2017. The AFSCA is responsible for the application of this European Regulation. Belgium respects WTO rules and panel conclusions. The concrete consequences of these decisions are discussed at European level. Within the framework of the Trade Agreement between the European Union and Japan – the Economic Partnership Agreement (EPA) – the Parties undertake to implement the multilateral and environmental agreements that bind them in their laws, regulations and practices. Furthermore, in its chapter on trade and sustainable development, in particular Article 16.8, the Agreement provides for recognition of the importance and role of trade and investment in ensuring the conservation, use and sustainable management of fisheries resources, the preservation of marine ecosystems and the promotion of responsible and sustainable aquaculture. It is both through action at European level and through the WTO that we are trying to move the situation forward. As far as environmental rules are concerned, especially in terms of spills, you will find that sometimes agreements concluded within the trade framework or partnerships with third countries make it possible to have new instruments for action.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u46	Minister, thank you. I hope that, beyond the health protection of our country and imports from Japan, Belgium will do everything possible and will weigh in diplomatic relations, also through the European Union, to prevent at all costs this extreme solution of dumping radioactive waters in the Pacific.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u47	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55000451C, 55000452C and 55000453C by Mrs Daems are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u48	Minister, gold is the most important source of conflict financing in eastern Congo. The Belgian research group International Peace Information Service (IPIS) estimates that 200,000 people work in "craft" gold mines in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). LIPIS estimates that 63 per cent are occupied by armed groups that pollute the environment by pushing for more intensive production while paying workers below the market price. Uganda allows the gold arriving from eastern Congo to be "white". Its exports are tenfold. In decline after the record of US$100 million in 2006, they date back to over US$500 million in 2018. The illegally collected gold in the DRC is exported massively to the United Arab Emirates (UAE). Finally, gold is re-exported around the world and, among other things, to Belgium, which represents the 7th Congolese gold importer via Uganda. In view of Belgium's position as the 7th importer of Congolese gold, several questions arise. How does Belgium prevent illegal import of gold extracted into conflict zones in the eastern DRC? How does Belgium prevent human rights abuses committed by Belgian companies and nationals in the DRC and Uganda during the exploitation of Congolese gold? In fact, Belgian companies are really involved in this matter. What is the duty of transparency and vigilance imposed by Belgium on Belgian order-giving companies in the DRC and Uganda? Following multiple NGO reports, does Belgium support an independent investigation into the illegal exploitation and export of Congolese gold?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u49	Mr Cogolati, on the international stage, both at the United Nations, at the European Union and at the OECD, Belgium advocates a sustainable exploitation of mineral raw materials that has a positive impact on local populations. For Belgium, respect for human rights is not optional. The fact that a few foreign companies would not observe human rights is not a decisive argument to justify that Belgian companies should participate in a race to the bottom. Under these circumstances, national provisions could never achieve their true objective. Due diligence legislation will only be effective if there is an equal opportunity for companies to compete with each other. The only solution which, at the same time, allows better respect for human rights and conditions of fair competition, is to organise due diligence at European and international level. Belgium will continue to work in this direction. This is the basis of the business and human rights guidelines. We discussed it earlier in other areas with Mr Lacroix. As a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council, Belgium also participates in the 1533 Sanctions Committee with regard to the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The main criterion for sanctioning the parties involved in this system is to help identify actions that undermine peace, stability and security in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. Such actions also include support for actors engaged in destabilizing activities, through the illegal exploitation and trade of raw materials, including gold. In 2016, an agreement was concluded in the final form of a European Union regulation on minerals from conflict zones aimed at ending the financing of armed groups in developing countries through trade in tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold. Belgium was one of the main supporters of the 3T+G Directive among the members of the European Union. The Regulation covers all undertakings and requires annual reporting on imports, specifying the quantities of these specific minerals and metals. The Regulation as approved by the EU institutions should ensure a sustainable supply for more than 95% of total European imports of tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold. In the meantime, the European Commission and the Member States will endeavour to ensure that the necessary structures are in place to ensure that this Regulation is implemented. At Belgian level, the SPF Economy is the competent authority for the implementation of the Regulation. Accompanying measures to support importers, in particular SMEs, will also be deployed. These efforts will be combined with a series of development aid measures and political actions aimed at ensuring the effectiveness of the Regulation and its positive effects on the ground. I am confident that the regulation that will come into force on 1 January 2021 will have real benefits on the ground. As regards gold in particular, under the OECD Convention on Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in Relations, the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office has opened several cases concerning the illegal trade in gold, which is still ongoing and covered by the secrecy of judicial information. Every initiative and survey that contributes to the sustainable exploitation of mineral raw materials and promotes the development of countries and especially of local populations continues to receive our support. It is in this spirit that we have also resumed relations with the Congolese authorities. I think it will be discussed a little later with regard to President Tshisekedi's visits to Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u50	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 55000600 by Mr Dallemagne 55000468C by Mrs Bossuyt. The next item is, with the agreement of the committee, her question No. 55000857C.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u51	Madam President, Minister, I have a question for you about the Foreign Ministers meeting next week. It will be necessary, among other things, to decide whether accession talks with Albania can be started. Albania has been on the road for a long time to a possible accession to the European Union. First there was a Stabilisation and Association Agreement, then there was official recognition as a candidate country. Last May, the European Commission issued a progress report on the candidate countries. The report examines the extent to which Albania has implemented the Copenhagen criteria. This progress report made it very clear that there are still serious problems related to corruption and the fight against crime. Albania also has a very important role and function in terms of migratory flows towards the European Union. On the basis of its progress report, the European Commission has recommended the launch of accession talks, but the Foreign Ministers decided in June to postpone a decision on the start of these talks until your meeting next week. I have two specific questions. Firstly, what position will you take as Foreign Minister? Will Belgium agree to the start of the accession talks with Albania? Your Dutch colleague, Minister Blok, has already made it clear that the Netherlands will not accept the start of these negotiations. Secondly, what position will Belgium take in the future when it comes to EU enlargement? We will still have to wait for the European Commission's annual programme in this respect. The von der Leyen Commission, of which you will be a member, has yet to adopt its position on possible enlargement. The Juncker Commission was very clear in that regard. It made it clear at the time that there would be no enlargement for five years.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u52	Madam President, Mrs Van Bossuyt, there has been a consensus in the European Union since 2003 that the countries of the Western Balkans will eventually be able to take their place within the European Union, provided that they can strictly comply with all the criteria for membership. As early as April 2018, the European Commission made a positive recommendation to start accession negotiations with Albania on the basis of a favourable assessment on five priority reform areas. These were established by the European Council in 2014, in particular the reform of justice, progress in the fight against organised crime and corruption, public service reform and respect for human rights. The Commission's recommendation to open accession negotiations with Albania is supported by the vast majority of Member States. The opening of accession negotiations with Albania would allow the European Commission to draw up an accession strategy and define concrete benchmarks with priority focus on the area of the rule of law and fundamental rights (Chapter 23 of the acquis) and justice, security and freedom (Chapter 24 of the acquis). These priorities will therefore continue to be followed in the context of a possible accession strategy. In addition, any further step in the accession process requires a renewed consensus at the level of the European Council. The ongoing negotiations with Serbia since 2014 and with Montenegro since 2012 show that this process is certainly not automatic today, but only the start of a long process of reform in the countries concerned. Our country welcomes the far-reaching reforms that Albania has carried out in recent months and years on the path towards integration into the European Union. Among other things, with a constitutional review, Albania is currently conducting a thorough investigation into the integrity and qualifications of all magistrates in the country, the so-called fatting procedure. This procedure is supported and closely followed by the European Union. For example, 40% of these magistrates did not comply with this standard. They've already been kicked out of office. A further 20 % resigned in the meantime. Most of these magistrates still need to be replaced. In recent months further progress has also been made in setting up the special prosecutor's office in the fight against corruption and organised crime. In addition, a National Bureau of Investigation was established. This body was given important new instruments to strengthen the fight against organised crime. It is now essential that these steps are also translated operationally and that concrete results are achieved. Despite this favourable evolution, important challenges remain. Taking all the elements into account, particularly the current period, we wish to engage constructively but critically in this discussion, in line with the positions we have consistently adopted in recent years in the enlargement dossier. This position will be presented to the Länder tomorrow, Thursday 10 October, in the DGE coordination. This should allow our country to reach a negotiated position, which will be defended next week at the General Affairs Council and the European Council. We are waiting until after coordination at Belgian level for a position to be taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u53	Thank you, Minister. You refer to the fact that the process has been going on since 2003. I don't think a timeline is a reference at all. You know, as I do, that the process with Turkey has been going on for a long time, and that country is still far from joining the European Union; as far as we are concerned, it will never be able to join the European Union. I hope that Belgium will interpret and apply the Copenhagen criteria in a very strict way. The past has, after all, taught everyone that the accession of Bulgaria and Romania was premature and premature. The Copenhagen criteria were certainly not respected. We will continue to ensure that the Copenhagen criteria are complied with very clearly, should there ever be an additional accession.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u54	The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 55000470C by Mr De Roover and 55000559C by Mr Cogolati.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u55	Madam President, Mr Cogolati, are you prepared to translate these questions into written questions, in view of the more topical discussion on agenda items 25 and 28?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u56	Madam President, can we then hold a topical debate in which I can speak and ask my questions about the situation in Syria?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u57	Mr Cogolati, according to the rules, you can indeed agree with the questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mr De Roover's 55000470C and Mr Cogolati's 55000559C are converted into written questions as well as questions. Mr De Roover, Mr 55000521C and Mr 55000522C by Mr Ben Acour and Mr 55000540C by Mr Cogolati.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u58	Madam President, can we deal with items 25 and 28 together, since the distinction is subtle?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u59	Then we will have a topical debate and bring together agenda items 25 and 28.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u60	Mr Minister, in view of the time I will not go into too much detail about history, because everyone here knows what it is about. The subject is very topical, as we have received confirmation from the Turkish side over the last few hours that they have actually started their initiative. A few oral questions were also put yesterday in plenary. It's been said that President Trump surprised us. Well, President Trump surprises us all the time and that is no news in itself. He announced at both the elections and a year ago that he would do what he did not do before and what he is doing now, and rightly so, he could count on general European disapproval. After all, we are abandoning important allies here. One could raise the question of how, in future, one should assess an alliance with the United States and, in a secondary order, with Europe, when dealing with one's allies in such a way. In this sense, a clear critical note to the United States is certainly appropriate. However, we are here in the Belgian Parliament, a European Parliament. There was absolutely no response in Europe to the American question of January this year. That is the subject of my first question. What European initiatives to stabilise northern Syria have been proposed in recent months? What position have we taken in this regard? Secondly, we are currently sitting on the Security Council and in this way have more room than usual for our voices to be heard. Furthermore, we have been given a special responsibility in relation to the humanitarian aspects of the conflict in Syria. Unfortunately, the humanitarian problem will not be reduced in the next few days, perhaps on the contrary. Our country has so far focused on the battle around Idlib. Hence my questions or, when and in what way our representative has broken a lance on the Kurdish case? What perspective can be offered for the consolidation of Kurdish territorial integrity, which is currently being violated? Yesterday in plenary we also referred to President Trump's special tweet, with a messianic phrase. However, it has been forgotten that this tweet was the first of two tweets, which had absolutely nothing to do with the Kurdish affair, but was a kind of threat to Turkey, not so much in the sense that one had to stand down to the Kurds, but that one had to make sure that the IS fighters, who would then, as it were, be taken over from the Kurds, would not disappear into the forest. How do you feel about the serious fact that Belgian FTFs could abuse a possible chaos? Today, Paul Van Tigchelt stated on behalf of the OCAD that the Belgian FTFs would be best repatriated in Northern Syrian camps. The Dutch Minister has taken another option in a debate. Do you think the outgoing government can respond to the call? In that case, what are the concrete ways to do that? Are we equipped for that? Do we have the opportunity to respond to that wish? Is that logistics feasible?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u61	I would like to point out to colleagues that, since it is a topical debate, everyone has two minutes' speaking time. Try to keep to that. After that, of course, you are entitled to a reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u62	Mr Minister, my question has a very specific point of view. This is the position taken by Minister De Croo at the United Nations General Assembly, namely that we are thinking of a form of trial of the IS fighters in Iraq. For months now, both in the Flemish Parliament and on every forum I have had and here in the Chamber, I have repeatedly pointed out the urgency of the problem. Now the urgency has become all the more urgent because of the topicality in the north-east of Syria, hence my questions. There is the whole debate on stabilising the region, which is one thing, and I would like to take over the words of journalist Arnout Brouwers today in De Volkskrant that Europe can apparently do no more than produce the kettle music of the impotent. Europe makes a lot of indignant comments about Trump, which has repeatedly announced what is happening now, while there is apparently no coordinated strategy on the table for the rest. However, today's events are no surprise in themselves; they are obviously undesirable, but no surprise. I now quickly focus on the questions about the FTFs that are being held captive and guarded by the Kurds in northeast Syria. OCAD boss Van Tigchelt said yesterday that the situation there is threatening to escalate and chaos is increasing. In addition to the camps where FTF's are held, there are the guarded camps where families and other radicalized people are being held and people are already escaping from those mini-IS states. So the anxiety cannot be great enough, just like the force of action to prevent the prisoners from using the chaos and releasing it. Just think of the threat of IS leader Baghdadi, who last month urged us to storm the prisons and free all prisoners of ISIS fighters. So we really need to go beyond an intellectual exercise. I have the following questions, Minister. Minister De Croo at the UN General Assembly states that we are thinking of a way to bring IS fighters to justice in Iraq. What's up with that? What arrangements have been made with other countries in this respect? Can such an operation be initiated as a matter of urgency? What guarantees do we have in the area of justice? Remember my first questions about the evidence garage against the FTFs. I refer to the recent interview with the so-called executioner of Raqqa, who makes the shameful statement that he wants to return to Belgium and live a normal life, but this is the reality. Of course that does not work, but then it is very important that we have a solid file against that person. Our indignation can be infinite, but if we do not have clear evidence of FTFs, our country will not be a good figure and our national security will be even more compromised. In short, what is concrete about the proposal on trial in Iraq? Do we have any guarantees in relation to Iraq? I read that Iraq is asking a lot of money to do the 'dirty work', while the country does not have a good track record at all. The former Iraqi prisons, where terrorists and prisoners of the Ba'ath regime were held, became the hotbed for IS. So it is all too easy to suggest that these trials should take place in Iraq. What guarantees do we have that this will not create another hotbed for terrorist cells, which will once again jeopardise our national security? Finally, have you already responded to Paul Van Tigchelt's position? Is his position a new fact in the file, or has he expressed a personal opinion? He has repeatedly argued that we best try Belgian IS fighters in our own country, from the point of view of our national security. Mr Van Tigchelt speaks with a certain authority. I hope, therefore, that this view will not be simply thrown away.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u63	Mr Minister, first of all let me congratulate you on your confirmation as European Commissioner for Justice by the European Parliament. According to reports in the press, and especially in Knack, Belgium, like other countries, maintains sustained and discreet contacts with the Iraqi authorities in order to deal with the fate of Belgian Daesh ex-combatants present in Kurdish camps in Syria. It would have been proposed to Belgium to pay money to Iraq in order to abandon the nationals to the care of the Iraqi authorities supposed to judge them, without consular intervention by the countries concerned and, according to the Iraqi Prime Minister, "under local procedures and laws". We are talking about huge amounts, more than $2 million per suspect per year. We are also talking about the construction of a high-security prison, to which Western states would also be invited to contribute. There is little doubt that we are talking about people who must be tried for their actions, but I must not remind you that there is a rule of law and that we are bound to respect human rights, even with regard to our nationals who have shown little respect for human life. It seems to us illusory enough to be able to obtain diplomatic guarantees from Iraq. Nevertheless, Belgium should, in addition to the prohibition of torture and the death penalty, be given the opportunity to improve conditions of detention. In the absence of any prospect of an international tribunal on the matter, many experts, the Coordinating Agency for Threat Analysis (OCAM) and the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office ask that these persons be tried in Belgium, in order to obtain a fair trial. My questions are therefore as follows: do you confirm the existence of negotiations between our country and Iraq concerning these Belgian nationals? If so, what is the content of these negotiations? What about the payment of this possible $2 million per suspect per year? Is differential treatment envisaged for men, women and even minors? Does Belgium intend to participate in the establishment of this ad hoc prison in Iraqi territory? If so, what kind of diplomatic guarantees are envisaged with the Iraqi authorities? Finally, are alternative approaches envisaged in order to be able to bring these individuals back to Belgium, where they will be tried for their acts?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u64	Madam President, Minister, Turkey has carried out its threat. Turkish aviation is bombing Syrian territory, probably as a prelude to a land offensive. The images of CNN and BBC are coming. The Syrian democratic forces and the Syrian Democratic Council have just said that civilian populations are being bombed. The Kurds, our best allies in the fight against terrorism, will not do the job. They have just called on their own people to rise up and resist this Turkish invasion. You can imagine the bloodbath! The Kurds are alone in the face of this offensive, this desire for ethnic cleansing - there is no other word - and mass displacement of populations. It is a perfectly illegal act under international law. This is a violation of the Charter of the United Nations. This is a violation of the North Atlantic Treaty of which Turkey is a member. Turkey claims that it was threatened, but it never proved it. Had it been threatened, it could have approached the international community, the Security Council and NATO for the necessary protection. It is a new war that begins at the gates of Europe. Europe has done nothing to prevent this new bloodbath. Europe will be accountable for what will happen in the coming days on Syrian territory. I call for the immediate convening of the Security Council of which we are members. I ask that we also immediately convene a NATO summit. We are members of NATO, as is Turkey. We need to have immediate discussions with this so-called Turkish ally, who has distinguished himself above all by his support for Islamist groups since the beginning of the Syrian conflict. I also call for an urgent meeting at European Union level so that we can assess the situation and define an attitude to be adopted, if possible in a coherent way, at European level. You said it yesterday in plenary. I ask that we can try everything we can to stop this bloodbath. Again, it is civilians who will pay the price of this conflict. In the context of the situation which is changing from hour to hour, the problem of the jihadists is also particularly serious. We have all heard, and my colleagues have referred to it, the statements of the OCAM boss. They are not new, but they are in breach of what I thought was your government's doctrine, which you had repeated on many occasions and that a solution had to be found on the spot. It always seemed complicated. The Americans have always opposed the establishment of an international tribunal. We need the support of the Security Council and, therefore, of the Americans, to put in place a local solution. I can understand that our security services - the OCAM is not a charity - and the prosecutor's office believes that it is better to get hold of these jihadists so that they can judge, control them and ensure that this threat does not spread from Syrian territory, in the context of a new conflict as it is developing. Today it's a bit of panic football. We are told that these nationals should be repatriated, but is that still possible? What is the government's attitude to this repatriation? What coordination exists with the other Member States? Why now? How? What arrangements and logistics will be put in place? How will we ensure our safety in such a context?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u65	Mr Minister, what we were thinking yesterday did indeed happen. Turkish President Erdogan launches his curiously called "Source of Peace". From his point of view, it may be the name to be used, but from an international and European point of view, it is scandalous to call this a military operation aimed at a bloodbath and a form of ethnic cleansing of the Kurdish population. Aerial fire, artillery en route, the desire to occupy a 120 km long strip of territory by 30 km wide! I note that France has just strongly condemned the Turkish offensive and has decided to refer the matter to the Security Council. I also note that France, Germany and the United Kingdom are in the process of agreeing to move things forward not only on the Security Council but also on the European Union. Like my colleagues, I would like to hear from you on this subject. What is the position of the Belgian Government? Will Belgium accompany France in its firm condemnation and, above all, in the swift seizure of the UN Security Council? I agree with the question asked by my colleagues about the statement made by the director of the OCAM, who explained that he wished to repatriate the jihadists to Belgium for trial in our territory. Irrespective of the opportunity to repatriate these people, it is also undoubtedly an opportunity to affirm that Belgium must judge these people on its territory and not let them be judged in Syria in a completely different context. Minister, I would like to hear from you about this. Given the seriousness of the events, I will not be much longer because I believe that restraint and dignity must guide us on this day.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u66	Minister, this is a serious time. Today, President Erdogan shows himself to be Assad's objective partner in attacking the Kurdish fighters, who were our allies until then. The United States is also particularly unworthy of the trust shown to it by European countries. Today we fear a bloodbath in Syria for Kurdish populations. We are also concerned about new flows of refugees. We are already talking about 340,000 potential refugees. I recall that Turkey is a member of NATO. I read in the international press about the question of the suspension of Turkey as a member of NATO. Minister, what is your opinion on this issue? A humanitarian corridor is now extremely necessary. We are members of the United Nations Security Council and we must convene a meeting there and advocate for the establishment of this humanitarian corridor. Europe must absolutely regain its diplomatic leadership. Last July, the European Union imposed economic sanctions on Turkey following the situation in Cyprus. Mr Minister, I would ask you for broad economic sanctions against Turkey as a result of its unilateral offensive on the Kurdish population.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u67	Mr Minister, we expected yesterday, the bombing of the Kurds, our allies in the fight against Daesh, began with this "Source of Peace" operation. I let you appreciate the cynicism of such an operation that targets civilian populations with air raids and artillery fire. The President of the European Commission calls for an immediate halt to the strikes, stating that he will not finance a safe area that Ankara aims to create in the region. Finally, what are our levers at this stage? The President of the United Nations Security Council calls for maximum restraint. He added that it was up to the drafters of the resolutions on Syria to convene a session. From a humanitarian point of view, it is Belgium, Germany and Kuwait. Minister, what will the government do to try to stop this bloodbath and prevent the jihadists who are held by the Kurds in this region from taking advantage of the chaos to sow another chaos and threaten our own security? I think there are many levers: NATO, the European Union and the Security Council. Minister, for hearing you say something a few hours ago, I know you are sensitive to this question. Of course, I expect a lot of determination in the government's action.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u68	I support all the questions raised by the previous speakers. We are pointing in the direction of Turkey, but it is the United States that has unleashed the conflict. Because they are supposed to have nothing to do there, they are igniting a new war. When the Security Council talks about the problems of Turkey and the Kurds, it is also entitled to raise the issue of the United States, which is retiring there with no embarrassment and which is causing a new war.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u69	Madam Chair, I will try to take stock of the situation of foreign fighters, as the initial questions related to them and how we have tried to make progress in this area. Secondly, I will address the emergency situation in this border area between Turkey and Syria. First of all, I would like to say that yesterday I made myself very clear about the actions Belgium intended to take. Together with our French, British and German counterparts - and I hope others will join us - we have asked for an item to be added to the agenda of the Security Council today. There is no hesitation in this regard. We are directly at the manoeuvring to ask for this inclusion on the agenda, because we want to condemn this operation, about which I had the opportunity - through a special communiqué on behalf of Belgium - to demand this morning that it does not take place. We have obtained that the President of the European Commission communicates on this subject, but we are also trying to ensure that the Council - bringing together the Member States of the Union - speaks with one voice. In any case, we will not wait for the expression of one voice to act. I can therefore confirm that we have requested that this item be added to the agenda of the Security Council, thus demonstrating our willingness to condemn the action that is being taken and whose scope we are trying to know at this time. You will understand that it will be over the hours that we will see the situation change. Yesterday and again this morning, I considered that this event was going to destabilize the region. We know the Kurdish situation in north-eastern Syria, but I have also recalled the situation that persists in several camps. We may have some concerns about the security environment and the ability to keep several people inside these camps. There is no doubt about our determination. We are acting in the European Union and in the Security Council. If there is no consensus at the European Council, we will intervene directly – as I did this morning – bilaterally. We will return to the situation in NATO. I can understand the concerns in this regard. Important NATO meetings will take place in the coming weeks. By the end of the year, there will be a NATO Summit. I can understand that we are considering discussing economic sanctions, but you will understand that today's priority is not to discuss this issue at future European meetings. As I said yesterday, a meeting with my Foreign Affairs colleagues is scheduled for Monday in Luxembourg. In the meantime, it is in the Security Council that the debate must take place. But I would like to return to the situation of foreign fighters. In order to avoid any confusion, allow me to take stock of the various contacts that have taken place and those that are underway with the Iraqi side on the FTF file. With a small group of European countries, Belgium has started negotiations with the Iraqi government on this issue. A first technical meeting was held during the summer, and a second is expected to take place shortly. The services of the Justice FPS are also involved in the same way as those of the Foreign Affairs FPS. The position of the Belgian Government, like that of the other European countries that are members of this group, is that FTFs must be tried as closely as possible to the places where they have committed their crimes. We share the same concerns and demand the same guarantees of compliance with international standards on the death penalty. You know that we are at the forefront of the demand for the abolition of the death penalty throughout the planet. We therefore call for the death penalty not to be applied in the event of such a judgment. I have already had the opportunity, in the past, to intervene directly with the Iraqi authorities on this matter. We also call for compliance with international standards for fair trials – this responds to a number of concerns raised – and conditions of detention. So, on these different points, the positions are clear. Negotiations are under way. It is obviously too early to decide on their outcome. But at this stage – I would also like to confirm this – Belgium has made no commitment to the Iraqi authorities – I have read and heard many things, including financial ones – both in terms of the possible payment of financial compensation for our foreign fighters detained in Iraq, in terms of the financing of detention centres, and in terms of the more general aspects that I have mentioned. To my knowledge, the other countries concerned have not made such commitments either. However, the meeting on 26 September 2019 in the margins of the UN General Assembly in New York was a joint initiative of the Netherlands and Iraq and was called Accountability for atrocity crimes, committed by Daesh. The theme thus had a much broader scope than the FTF issue. However, the issue of the FTFs was raised. In general, the need to develop a strategy to bring the FTFs to justice was underlined. My Dutch colleague argued in favour of an international process, without further explanation. With regard to the establishment of an international tribunal, no concrete solution was found at that meeting to circumvent the obstacles in this area. The participants underlined the need for evidence to ensure and support the prosecution of the perpetrators in this context UNITAD and the International, Imperial and Independent Mechanism (IIIM) set up to collect evidence. The Belgian Government, represented at the conference by Deputy Prime Minister De Croo, made no technical-financial proposal. That wasn't the purpose of the conference. Moreover, the issue of the transfer of FTFs from Northern Syria to Iraq was not raised. My Iraqi homologist made no commitment to the exclusion of the death penalty and the use of torture. I confirm our position. First, in cooperation with others, we want to conclude an agreement with Iraq on the trial of the FTFs on the ground, perhaps later on with Syria, but that is more difficult. There are several possibilities, such as a local tribunal supplemented by experts from the international community. Secondly, I confirm the decision of the government, which was already taken before the resignation of some ministers in December 2018, to repatriate all Belgian IS children under ten years of age. We had always made it clear at the time that, of course, these children had to be identified, and the procedures had to be put in place in order to do so. Beyond the age of ten, the choice would be made on a case-by-case basis. That is what, I recalled, led to a first repatriation operation of six orphans, including more than ten years, as part of the approach that we have put in place, where Foreign Affairs assumed the support of these children with logistical means implemented by the Defence. I had to combine the two actions in order for this operation to be carried out. I do not have much to comment on the statements made by the head of the OCAM. I've read about it. I assume that this statement will be discussed in the National Security Council. I am thinking of the Belgian Council, of course, where the OCAM boss sits with the members of the government and other security actors. The government will see if there is a need to change the attitude. I have heard comments on what the federal prosecutor may want to do. We are, of course, listening to any specific requests made by the judicial authorities or by the security authorities. But I discovered statements like you through the press. I can only confirm the position that has been adopted so far by the government. I would point out that if we were to imagine a change of attitude, a debate in Parliament would probably be necessary, since, as I pointed out, decisions and guidelines were taken at a time when the government still had a majority in Parliament. This is no longer the case since the December resignations and the May elections. That's an important point. As far as the situation in the region is concerned, on the ground, I may wish to recall, as I did yesterday in plenary, that we have decided to participate in operations in the region. Perhaps this is a debate that will also have to be held in the committee or even in the assembly. In any case, we have decided to participate in operations in the region. At the time, we made it very clear that our F-16s could – from Jordan – contribute to actions in Iraq and then in Syria. At the same time – and I remember very well, since I was a member of the government and I defended the request for intervention – Parliament had very clearly demanded that our military not be present on Syrian soil. We went to Baghdad to help with training and accompaniment beyond, including to Mosul. I hear a lot of statements today – and the issue will certainly be raised within the government. The debate will have to take place in Parliament anyway. I do not hide from you that if we were to plead – as I have heard – for European operations, it will be very difficult to be convincing by announcing from the start that we are not ready to participate in any operation on the ground. Therefore, I believe that coherence will have to be found. I assume that the Security Council will address this urgent issue. Nevertheless, a summons of the latter was announced to deal with it. We'll see when the meeting takes place. For the rest, I repeat that with our British, French and German counterparts, we have asked for it to be organised. With regard to military operations, I cannot provide much more information than is received over the hours. It is obvious that an operation started with bombings and, probably, with a presence on the ground. At the moment, I do not have any more detailed information on this, as it comes to us as we move on. I called again this morning that there should be no unilateral action that could seriously destabilise the region and undermine the struggle against Daesh, which has not yet been fully achieved! There are still negative effects of its presence in the region and not only. The impact on the humanitarian situation is important, and we have therefore taken initiatives with our German and Kuwaiti colleagues so that this aspect can be revisited within the framework of the Security Council – given that we have a special responsibility in this matter – with concern that there will be further displacement of populations. As you know, this region of north-eastern Syria has several camps where thousands of foreign fighters are being held. According to OCAM figures, there are several dozen fighters linked to Belgium, the majority of whom are women and minors of age. The Turkish operation could jeopardize the monitoring of these camps, which should be avoided. We will continue to monitor this situation closely both bilaterally and with our European colleagues in the Security Council. A change in the regional context may force us to reconsider our position. I have taken note of the statements made by the head of the OCAM, but this is a debate that has yet to take place at the National Security Council in Belgium, within the government and perhaps in relation to Parliament. With regard to the international coalition against Daesh, it seems to me that we will also have to consult with our partners because we want to avoid the destabilization of this part of Syria and a further outbreak of the situation. Many actors are present in the field. I will not hide from you that we are working towards a common position of all European States, but that does not prevent us from acting either bilaterally or through our presence in the Security Council. We had already made some progress on the political front in Syria, but the current situation is sad. It might have been possible to go to a new meeting in Geneva at the end of October with the establishment of a Constitutional Committee. However, it will be difficult to make new progress in Geneva now, given the situation on the ground. I hope that the action will be limited. It is now too late to ask that it should not start, because the action has started, but I hope that, in cooperation with our international partners, it will still be possible to go to a real halt. I do not know if this will be possible, but the determination of the Belgian Government and our diplomats, in the various bodies where they sit, is very strong in trying to avoid fuelling the escalation that has begun in terms of the declarations and preparations of the last few days. I simply hope, as has been mentioned several times with our American colleagues, that it will be possible to return to a more controlled regional situation. I also said it in plenary yesterday, but in the US Congress, both on the Democratic side and on the Republican side, there are voices in favour of maintaining an American presence. There was also a strengthening of the French and British presences on the ground. I hope that this will make it possible to channel whatever is happening. I repeat that we condemn the action taken, like other European colleagues. We will do everything we can to prevent it from leading to a destabilization of the region. We must be realistic: we can only do so by solidarity with several European actors present today in the Security Council, but also by trying to ensure that other permanent members use their influence to limit the extent of what is happening and return to a stable situation. I can't tell you any more right now. All contacts are made and the pressures are maximum to try to prevent the situation from degenerating, as is already the case in the last few hours.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u70	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. Turkey seems to like some symbolism. Today is 9 October 2019, nine years after the expulsion of Öcalan from Syria to Turkey. I don't know if this is a coincidence, but it makes sense for symbolism. I fully understand the very limited possibilities, also in the context of what has been decided in this context, including here in Parliament. In general, there is indignation today in this Parliament and in the media. There is a scandalous, unacceptable and appalling operation in breach of international law. In some media, I read that Turkey, through the 1998 Adana Agreement, could even build up some legal argument to justify today's actions. Here, with us, the indignation is common. We are pointing the finger at Mr Trump, for which there is absolutely no argument, which I have already raised in my question. Let us not forget, however, that the tacit and passive attitude of the European countries also plays an extremely important role here. I am thinking of the minimalist use of some British and French troops on the ground. In this respect, it is not bad that you contact your colleagues from your position to ask whether or not these troops will be withdrawn or thrown into the line of fire. It doesn't seem obvious to me. However, the commitment is so minimalistic that any decision I think will make little impression on Turkey. Actually, we're chasing the facts. According to some colleagues, we must now go beyond the intellectual exercise, but these colleagues must know what they are aiming at with that statement. In your reply, Minister, you have somewhat hidden that between the rules. You said that in the past it was decided not to have boots on the ground, and that we must therefore remain coherent in our criticism today. I am absolutely right in saying that coherence in our attitude is very important, but, let us be honest, the time has passed when we can continue to hide ourselves comfortably under the American umbrella. I think we can no longer escape that. We can no longer sit in front of a dime in the front row, as is said in the Netherlands, and outsource our security to Washington. We have done so for decades. That all seemed very pleasant, cheap for us and also safe. It is absolutely necessary for us in this House to open the debate on the consequences of this. Does our solidarity towards the Kurds go beyond expressing indignation in this committee or do we know what the consequence of the withdrawal of the United States from that area is, in fact, the execution of a Donald Trump electoral promise? Let us leave this area open, and in that case should we be silent? Or do we accept the consequence of our indignation? I believe that we can no longer avoid this debate here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u71	Minister, you have been very consistent in repeating the mandate you have so far had to discuss the situation in Syria and Iraq. However, I feel that I have not really received an answer to my questions. I'm specifying. My question about the FTFs in Northeast Syria was: what now? You have clarified the state of play of the debate on the prisoners in Iraq. I am glad that you did, because that is not an easy discussion, but that is not an answer to my question. Quid de FTF'ers in Northeast Syria? You then said that we had the discussion in the past and that you followed those lines. Mr De Roover, I fully agree with you when you say that indignation is actually cheap in itself and that it is easy to tell the rest of the world from Europe when you are under the safety umbrella. But when we look at the situation today, it is not a question of referring to the position Parliament has taken in the past. That may have been a very legitimate position at the time, given the situation at the time. Now the situation has evolved and the question is what to do next. Mr Secretary of State and Defence, you have the luxury of maximum information. I know this isn't a luxury, but at least you're the best informed. What is your position? Then we can have a discussion on that basis, taking into account the change in the situation and taking into account the input you give us. Otherwise, I think it's a very sterile discussion. One says that we are now dealing with what was decided at the time. I think the decision at that time was very legitimate. Now the situation has changed and the question arises as to how we deal with it. We can take a lot of steps. I can't judge what's best without information. There is indeed a reference to the British and the French, to what their position is in that regard. Parliament must have these elements. I would also like to ask you what your position is, from the point of view of bringing more stability to the region and from the point of view of national security, when it comes to the FTFs. What are we supposed to do now? It is not a question of attacking each other with what has been said in the past. The decision in the past was then made with the facts of that time. What are we going to do with today's facts? Minister, I am counting on you to give us an informed position to which Parliament can respond.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u72	Mr Minister, with regard to Turkey's intervention, I take note and thank you for having clearly condemned the facts. It is important that Belgium, like other European countries, should be at the forefront of dealing with the issue as quickly as possible by the Security Council. We must immediately monitor the humanitarian consequences, which are unfortunately foreseeable. Thank you for your clarity. Thank you for having clearly answered almost all my questions about foreign fighters. I take note of the decision in principle that these combatants should be tried as closely as possible to the places where their crimes were committed. Yet their security conditions and ours must be fully guaranteed. I understand that a negotiation is under way and I assume that you or your successor will keep us informed before the agreement. I hear that there is no financial component, at least at the moment, and that is very important. I'm still hungry on one point. It is not that the OCAM or the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office consider that bringing and judging these people here would be a better idea. It is also a consideration that has been heard here from several colleagues and people from civil society. I have not heard you mention any reason why it would be problematic to bring them back here. Again, it is about the rights and security of the people concerned, but also about our security. It is a matter of having these individuals under our radar; perhaps this will not be the case, and we see how destabilized this region is today, if only for 24 hours. I am still hungry about the argument developed not to judge these people here. It would be more interesting for them to be so even if their actions were committed abroad.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u73	Minister, thank you for your answer. I ask you to live up to the current events, so that Belgium can live up to this tragic new page that is written at the gates of Europe. I hear your conviction and it's the first time you've used that word. Unfortunately, it comes late but it is important. I hear the convening of the Security Council, but I hear nothing decisive that would bring Turkey back. You are sweeping away the idea of sanctions, as well as the fact that Turkey is still a real partner because you said that this is not the time to discuss it. I didn't hear any sanction from you. We know that Turkey will lift its shoulders when it learns of Europe's indignation because it probably already knows that Europe will do nothing but indignation. For my part, it seems to me that measures should be put in place to stop this offensive. You say that you have not heard a single group which might agree to discuss Belgium's cooperation in the establishment of an interposition force. It seems to me that as Minister of Foreign Affairs and Defence, you must speak. Just like on the F-16 issue, you have to speak. This is your political responsibility. We need to know your opinion on the matter. You refer the groups to the House but we still have a Foreign Minister who has an opinion! At least I can imagine it. My personal view is that, as part of an international force, we must participate and contribute to security efforts. And from this perspective, we need to consider the different options that are tailored to our capabilities, to our usual role in such operations. In times like this, we also need political leadership that tells us what options are on the table and what Parliament needs to be able to discuss. I heard what Belgium's position was on the FTFs. I have the feeling that the debate remains theoretical. The situation is above all different between Iraq and Syria since Iraq has a government with which it is possible to discuss. But the vast majority of our FTFs are in Syria. There is no government there. There is a situation of war and you say that there is still a need for debate at the level of the National Security Council and at the level of the government. I called for a debate in Parliament. I asked earlier to hold a specific debate on this subject. Madam President, I understood that there was an agreement in principle on this point and that a date had to be found. It is indeed a question of seeing what is the best option today in terms of our safety, what are Mr. Van Tigchelt. If the federal prosecutor's office believes that the return of the jihadists is an option that should be put on the table, I think it should be heard. I have just had the reaction of the president of the association of the victims of the 22 March attacks, who also calls for justice to be done, who is worried that these jihadists will disappear in nature, that they will be dispersed because of the current context. I believe that there are enough elements to have very quickly - I do not understand how it is not in progress - a discussion on what needs to be done for our security, for justice to be done and to avoid new jihadist cells and the resurgence of the Islamist state in northern Syria. These are some of those elements that I would like to see dealt with quickly. But once again, the European Union and the Security Council must take an extremely firm stand. You said you condemned the situation, I believe. This is indeed a perfectly illegal invasion of one country by another! We cannot tolerate it and certainly not on the part of an ally who thus violates the North Atlantic Treaty.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u74	Madam President, although I am a member of the opposition, I found that the Deputy Prime Minister had nevertheless clearly answered all the questions. No doubt, with restraint, but is it for a minister in charge of external relations to add tension or provocation to the situation? I'm not sure. Contrary to what some say, I heard the minister say that he condemned what was happening in Turkey today and the attitude of the President of that country. On the other hand, I would like this condemnation to be equally strong vis-à-vis the United States. Deputy Prime Minister, reactions continue to grow and I am concerned when I read that Jean-Claude Juncker said to the European Parliament: "If the plan is to achieve a safe area, do not expect the European Union to contribute to it. It only wants to contribute to a genuine political transition." I know that we must not hire troops without thinking, but I would have expected Europe to favour political and diplomatic solutions and, in a broader discussion in the Security Council, to appreciate how it could intervene. Which doesn't mean we're going to intervene militarily. But how we are prepared to act on this issue. However, the outgoing President of the European Union does not announce this. That's what I'm sorry about. Once again, the European Union is to the absent subscribers. A kick should be set in the European anthill for us to take on our responsibilities. They are not necessarily about arming our troops and going to the field, but we must not just say that we will see and that, above all, we should have a political solution.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u75	Minister, thank you for your long reply. It is true that the Security Council is already seized by Germany, the United Kingdom and France. I believe it is extremely important to send international observers to the area and to ensure a humanitarian corridor for the civilian population. Having said that, I also want to remain pragmatic and realistic, because I know that we are facing a potential veto from Russia. That is why, in my first speech, I stressed in particular the role to be played by the European Union and NATO in this region. I have also heard that you are, in a way, sweeping away the idea of economic sanctions against Turkey. However, I remember July when the European Union imposed such sanctions on the same country because of gas drilling off the coast of Cyprus. Today, we are talking about bloodbaths and civilian populations who are victims of a unilateral offensive that absolutely violates all the principles of international law and, in particular, international humanitarian law. That is why I would like frankly to stress the possibility for the European Union to exercise its full weight - through much stronger economic sanctions - in order to encourage Turkey to abandon this unilateral offensive. Turning back on civilian populations is the best way to witness a return of terrorism, of the Islamic State, of instability in the region and here. Let me remind you that we are talking about 340,000 Syrians who could take the road to the shelter at home. In my view, therefore, the European Union cannot remain passive at all. We must do everything possible to stay on the side of the civilian population and avoid, of course, new victims.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u76	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. I really think that's a common sense answer, with a cold head on my shoulders. There is no need, as Mr Lacroix said, to add tension to the tension in these times, which are sufficiently complicated. You cannot be blamed for not putting the plough before the ox, as I have sometimes heard from other colleagues. You clearly condemned on behalf of Belgium this Turkish intervention in Syria, and you did so just two or three hours after the intervention began. You can hardly be asked to do it sooner. On the other hand, with regard to the prompt convening of the United Nations Security Council, I believe that the message has passed well and I am extremely pleased with it. Everything will be played in the next few hours. I know your determination to send the message firmly to Ankara. Unfortunately, peacemakers will need it in the light of Donald Trump's latest Twitter statements: "It is time for Turkey to take care of the Daesh fighters that Europe refuses to take charge of. This stupid endless war is over for the United States." We understand this very well, ladies and gentlemen, that Europe, not only politically but also, if necessary, militarily, must now be ready to play a role in resolving this crisis. Here, Belgium has its role to play as a member of NATO and as a member of Europe. It is also up to us, Members of Parliament, as the colleague from the N-VA reminded us, to take a position in decisions such as the deployment of military personnel on the ground. Of course, we cannot regret that there is none if we ourselves do not have a consensus and compromise on the matter. The same applies to, as my colleague from the CDH said, a possible force of interposition. In any case, what is certain is that, on the humanitarian level, we have a leading role to play with Germany and Kuwait in the Security Council. I count, of course, on you, Deputy Prime Minister, to be the driving force behind this action.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u77	Minister, we have heard clearly that you condemn this attack. The question is also to make this concrete on the international stage. In what way will we end this condemnation, including against Turkey? Will this be done through sanctions or other measures? After all, I think we should not just say it, but also make it concrete on the international stage. This is my first point. Secondly, I believe that this is yet another wake-up call for the European Union. We must take our destiny into our own hands. We used to have loyal allies, like the United States. Mrs Kherbache said that we can best be informed by the Minister, but the question is to what extent one can be properly informed by an unstable head of state in the United States who does not back off surprise attacks and withdrawal. The question is whether the European Union wants to take its destiny into its own hands. We must ensure that we no longer have to hide behind an unstable ally who decides from one day to the next to go one way or another. Thirdly, certain events must be decisive. This has been said here before. Together with Germany and Kuwait, we are a penholder for humanitarian issues in Syria. We must make proposals in this area to create a humanitarian corridor for humanitarian organisations so that we do not abandon the people on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u78	Madam President, I do not want to add anything immediately, although I want to be very specific and clear. First, this morning, after the debates we had yesterday, I asked that there be restraint on the Turkish side and that there be no invasion (the term was used this morning) by the Turkish authorities in north-eastern Syria. As soon as the operations began and the debate in your committee could be discussed, I very clearly condemned, on behalf of the Belgian Government, the ongoing operations. I would like there to be no doubt about that. The second element I would like to add is that the urgency, at this very moment, is the United Nations Security Council. This is where it is possible – I am not saying this is going to happen – to have a real reaction when such operations are set in motion. That is where security problems are solved, as long as we reach an agreement. That is why we reacted immediately, in solidarity with our French, British and German colleagues, and I hope that other Europeans will join us in this process. In any event, the approach has been taken, and the request to add this item to the agenda has been made. I do not exclude any discussions on sanctions within the European framework or discussions within NATO on the measures to be taken. I am simply saying that the urgency is the United Nations Security Council, as I mentioned. We are also trying to have a common position from the whole of the European Union on the subject, which is not yet the case. I understand that I am told that a decision should be taken, but that would require consensus and unanimity within the European Union, which is clearly not yet the case at this time. I guess you'll have observed the reactions and looked who's reacting. I wanted to react well before, not wait for European unanimity to be reached. I repeat that we are doing so with our colleagues in the E3 group (Great Britain, France and Germany) with regard to the request for discussions in the United Nations Security Council. Finally, with regard to the Belgian position (I recalled, but we will return to it in another context), when we talk about military operations in the planning of the coming months, we have always maintained the idea of participating in operations in Iraq and Syria through the presence of our F-16s. I repeat that if we were to go to other types of European debates and interposition forces of any kind, I always said that I was open to discussion on the subject. I have recently heard the difficulties that have been ours. I will take two examples. For the repatriation of six orphans, agreement had to be reached within a government and the operation had to be implemented. I want to be told that much more needs to be done. I will be happy to hear the proposals that will be made on this subject, in particular at the National Security Council. Furthermore, in terms of Belgium's more active participation in the region, I think it would be useful for the debate to take place in the government and probably also in Parliament. I am prepared to give you all the information that will be available to me with respect to this type of participation, but we must understand the importance that can be attached to the exercise of both the functions of Minister of Foreign Affairs and Minister of Defence. I still need to have a position of government and, if possible, a majority in a Parliament. I've heard this all the time, in recent weeks and months, in this house. I want us to be able to work this way. My full commitment is to ensure that we use all the means at our disposal to prevent this situation from degenerating even more than it has begun to do in the last few hours. In order to achieve this result, I am convinced that there is a need for very strong political solidarity in Belgium, for strong support for everything we are going to do in this Parliament and in the government. We also need to act in full agreement with at least our main European colleagues who sit with us on the United Nations Security Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-09-55-commissie-ic025x.u79	Thank you, Minister, for the extra time you have given us, given the importance of the dossier that has been before us today.
