ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u2	Madam Prime Minister, a Royal Decree of 19 July 2001 states that former ministers and State Secretary are entitled to two full-time staff during a full-time term of office. For five years, the state treasury pays. Under the motto 'listen to my words, but do not look at my actions', all parties declare that they are opposed to that system, but they all use it, even those who were ministers for a few weeks, like Mr Loones. In Belgian politics, the principles are very far-fetched when the cash register rings. Madam Prime Minister, following a press release from me on this scandalous system, the newspapers for which these staff are actually employed have been checked. This does not seem to be in line with the spirit of the transitional arrangement. There are private drivers, they are involved in the party work, they are used to join the campaign and in the case of Johan Van Overtveldt they have to do nothing at all, and all at the expense of the State. I have asked your predecessor very often to abolish this scandalous and expensive arrangement. Every time I received the answer from Mr Michel that he was prepared to revise that arrangement and that he would do so by the next legislature. We are here: it is the next legislative term and nothing has changed about that. The only thing that has changed is that Mr Michel himself can now make use of this arrangement. Madam Prime Minister, I am sure you will be able to tell me whether Mr Michel is calling for this arrangement. What I particularly want to know from you is when you will finally abolish this expensive, scandalous and unnecessary regulation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u3	Thank you for your question, Mrs Pas. The subject of political renewal was discussed several times in plenary. I take the issue very seriously, and I repeat that political renewal is crucial to restoring citizens' confidence in our democratic institutions. In this respect, I welcome Parliament's work. The working group which met on a weekly basis for a few months has reached agreement on certain points. The Working Group wishes to bridge the gap between majority and opposition and has made progress in the area of good governance. Good cooperation between Parliament and the executive should enable further progress to be made. I am, of course, in favour of continuing to work on the political renewal. The specific issue of former ministers and State Secretary staff can certainly be addressed in the next government agreement. Indeed, it seems difficult for a government in current cases with 38 seats to take measures that are binding on the next government. That is one of many reasons for calling for the rapid formation of a fully-fledged government.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u4	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for your reply. I do wonder why you need another government to do that. You could easily change the royal decree. You yourself referred to the working group on political renewal, in which you see all the evidence that everyone agrees. For once, therefore, you should not point to your 38 seats, because there is a Chamberwide majority, which will support you, if you simply change the royal decree. You're not going to do that, it's obvious. Fortunately, there is the Flemish Interest, which has already submitted a legislative proposal in this area. One must be legally creative in order to be able to settle the issue by means of a legislative proposal, for which thanks to our former colleague, Mr Vuye. You welcome the parliamentary work. You welcome the cooperation. I have noted that all parties want to abolish the system. So I am very curious whether the four traditional parties, who are so eager to make use of the regulation today, will support our proposal when we put it to the vote in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u5	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, I would like to interpret you on the basis of an unveiling dossier drawn up by the VRT. According to that file, a lot of cabinet employees came from or emigrated to the private sector. The VRT has put forward an outrageously long list. How is that possible? Let me give you some examples. The spokesman of former minister Kris Peeters now works at AB InBev. The spokesperson for Hilde Crevits also works at AB InBev today. A former advisor from Mrs Marghem's Energy Cell works today at Electrabel. An employee of the Office of Open Vld Minister De Croo came from ECTA, the umbrella of the European telecoms sector. From there he went to work at the Van Quickenborne cabinet. From the Van Quickenborne cabinet, the person went to work at BASE-Telenet. Hop! From BASE-Telenet, the person concerned works in the De Croo cabinet today. That's not even revolving door politics anymore, it's a helicopter! What is being done? There'll be plenty for everyone. It's really revealing. Minister De Block's medical advisor works at Novartis-Pfizer today.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u6	Mr Hedebouw, you have one minute to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u7	N-VA Minister Jambon's healthcare advisor is currently working at pharma.be, so it's just big business. Have you also seen the list of former Minister Van Overtveldt? His deputy secretary works at PwC today. His deputy chief of economic and financial policy now works at Ackermans & van Haaren. His tax advisor is now working at PwC. Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, it is untenable. Forty to fifty employees now work for multinationals. The political world and the economic world are completely merged in the Cabinets. I notice some nervousness at the N-VA. Perhaps it is because of such files that the N-VA would like to silence the VRT.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u8	Mr Hedebouw, you must now ask your question. Your speaking time is exhausted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u9	Madam Prime Minister, do you think it's normal for this to happen? Do you think it would take a five-year debriefing period in such situations?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u10	Mr President, Mr Hedebouw, every member of the federal government is assisted in the performance of his various executive tasks by his administration and his policy cell. This policy cell consists of both executive staff and substantive staff. The members of the policy cell shall be recruited on the basis of their competence and expertise in the private sector or in the public sector. Working on a cabinet is an intense and time-consuming activity. It is usually a temporary activity because the long-term exercise is difficult. It therefore makes sense for the persons concerned to be able to continue their professional activities in a sector they know, be it the public sector or the private sector. Moreover, there is no legislation prohibiting a cabinet employee from making this switch, but it goes without saying that restraint and the duty of discretion apply to everyone. A working group on Political Renewal has been set up within this assembly. As always, the government will take note of any recommendations made by this working group.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u11	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, it is clear. So you're saying it's just gonna stay like this. You know very well that all those employees take that knowledge with them. You are paid to defend the entire population. These people, with their knowledge of the public sector and of their cabinets, pass from Vandeput to Lockheed Martin and from Marghem to Electrabel. It's outrageous. What's happening in our country? The real power in our country lies not with this Parliament, but with the multinationals. These multinationals have not only economic power, but also political power because they are present in the cabinets. The PVDA believes that there should be a five-year period to ensure that private interests do not dominate the general interest in our cabinets.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u12	Mr President, Madam Prime Minister, my question concerns the present and the future. There is an urgent need to take into account the problem of people and to provide responses to the economic and social situation, which is declining with an increase in poverty and inequality. Every day, the news shows us the difficulties facing different categories of people, companies that have to close their doors or are undergoing restructuring, the difficulty for older people in having to choose between treating themselves, feeding themselves or heating themselves, but also the inability of some workers to pay their rent. We are therefore faced with a situation which requires, as the Socialist Party has done, the tabling of legislative proposals aimed at combating poverty by increasing purchasing power – notably by raising the minimum hourly wage to EUR 14 and the minimum pension to EUR 1,500 net per month – to ensure the financing of social security and the strengthening of health care, to better adapt social benefits according to the situation of each individual. The importance of social dialogue, which is an essential element of stability, must also be taken into account. Madam Prime Minister, my question is simple and constructive: is the government in day-to-day affairs ready to work with Parliament that is democratically elected to make arrangements to implement bills that address the real concerns of citizens?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u13	Mr President, Mr Goblet, thank you for your constructive question. Much progress has been made over the past five years in addressing socio-economic challenges. But it is true – I do not disagree – that there is still a lot of work and effort to be done to take social distress even better and even more into account. Over the last five years, we have worked mainly to create jobs because we believe – and we still believe – that this is the best social protection. You recalled the importance for the population of having sufficient purchasing power. Let me remind you, in my turn, that this was one of the objectives of the previous government, which, through the increase in the tax shift, made it possible for substantial efforts to be made in terms of purchasing power. But not just. Improvements have also taken place through interprofessional agreements. I know it's important to you. We managed to record three of them. You ask me if the government in day-to-day affairs can support Parliament, which has all the prerogatives. As always, Parliament has the capacity to decide, taking full responsibility for its decisions. You're asking if the full-function government is ready to help you. I take the example of the white coats fund: we said that thanks to the technical teams of our firms, we were willing to help you turn a budget line into a reality for white coats. And that's what we did.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u14	Madam Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. Wishing to put me in a constructive vision, I did not talk about the past. The present and the future are what matters to me. The measures that have been taken are not those that we would have chosen. For us, the most important thing is the gross wage, because that is what determines the social protection of the worker. I hope that we can indeed, as with the white coats, move forward with the bills that we have tabled at the parliamentary level with the assistance of the government in day-to-day affairs. It is ultimately the House which, democratically, must take these decisions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u15	Madam Prime Minister, every year the European Commission assesses the budgets of the Member States. Every year the comment is that we have to be careful and ensure that the budget is under control. That will be no different in the coming years. However, when it comes to the European Union's own budget, the European Commission is suddenly singing a different song. Then suddenly it's:money, money, money. Then suddenly it's more, more, more. Suddenly it is: Member States, pay a little extra. The European Commission is now presenting a proposal to increase the contribution of Member States to 1.1 %. The European Parliament even wants to go to 1.3%. What is the very concrete consequence of this for us? For us, it means that we should pay at least half a billion extra to the European Union. Why is that sensitive? First of all, we don't have the money. Second, the Brexit is coming. This means for us that there is less trade and jobs are lost, especially in Flanders. That's the first invoice we'll pay for Brexit. Now the European Commission wants us to pay a second invoice for the Brexit by increasing our contribution to the European Union. It is not for us to pay for the Brexit and certainly not for us to pay for it twice. Thirdly, every year we collect EUR 2.5 billion in customs revenue through our ports. Now the agreement is that we may keep 20% for our own budget. The Commission wants to bring that amount down. So we will have to pay more to the European Union, but we will get less back. Madam Prime Minister, a group of countries in the European Union is called the "Soft Five." These are Germany, Denmark, the Netherlands, Austria and Sweden. Madam Prime Minister, please make sure that the 'Soft Five' gets a member and that we are among the 'Soft Six', the group of countries that does not want to increase the contribution to the European Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u16	Mr Loones, with the forthcoming perspective of the Brexit, it can be expected that Belgium will have to contribute more to the new budgetary framework. This would also be the case in the case of unchanged policies, but new challenges such as migration, border management, digitalisation and climate policy need to be addressed and funded. This may lead to an upward trend in the contribution. You have also spoken about customs duties, which, of course, also play a role. No decision has yet been taken on this matter. There will probably be an agreement at the European Council not until spring 2020. An agreement must also be reached with the European Parliament. At present Belgium pays an average of 3.9 billion euros per year. Nothing definitive can yet be said about the future contribution. For this, we must wait for the final outcome of the negotiations, which will only begin at a political level in December. In essence, the regions are mainly net recipients, including through the common agricultural policy, cohesion policy, research and development. There is no doubt that we are all net beneficiaries of the EU budget, which is essentially an investment budget and therefore an added value for all of us. Priorities are coordinated at all political levels in order to take the best position. For the time being, that process is going pretty well. I am sure you will be pleased to hear that this process is also going well with the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u17	Madam Prime Minister, unfortunately you have no reassuring message. I have not heard that we are on the side of those countries that want to keep the European budget as it is. On the contrary, you seem to be insinuating that our contribution to the European Union will increase. You are right to say that the European Union needs to change its focus, that there are new challenges, such as migration, security and innovation, and that we need to finance them more. I fully agree with that. However, one can do that perfectly by keeping the budget as it is and ensuring internal shifts. Your example frightens me. You refer to the European agricultural policy and say that we would be net recipients when it comes to European agricultural policy. I don't know if you read The New York Times from last week. You absolutely must do that. It examines the whole of the European agricultural policy. It brings out corruption. It shows how the money does not end up with our farmers, but with large industrial players in eastern Europe. That's about our tax dollars. Every year 700 million of our Belgian tax dollars go not to our farmers, but to large industrial farmers in eastern Europe. We are not a net recipient when it comes to agricultural policy. We are a net contributor, not to our own farmers, not to family farmers, but to those big industrial players. The New York Times calls it new feudalism and talks about that corruption. I sincerely hope that with more ambition we will have that European debate and join the 'Since Five', the countries that want to control the budget and focus on migration, security and investment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u18	The next set of questions is about partner violence. A number of questions are addressed to Minister Geens and a number of questions are addressed to Minister Muylle. We are going to deal with all these questions in one debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u19	Daniëlle, Élodie, Valentine, Fatima, Jessica, Nancy, Sabrina, Dominique, Céline, Éliane, Julie, Barbara, Isabelle, Mia, Sally, Leïla, Ellen, Lutgarde, Lesley, Aurélie and Jill. Mr President, Minister, 21 women died in 2019 under the blows of the man who claimed to love them and 70% of the complaints of domestic violence are now dismissed in Belgium. How can we still deceitfully mourn each of these victims when nothing is done to avoid them? Minister, where are the investments in a comprehensive plan to carry out an effective policy against violence against women, allowing for a complex understanding of the mechanisms of domination that are playing out and for the deployment of coordinated measures at all levels of power in terms of prevention, protection of victims and prosecution of perpetrators, as foreseen by the Istanbul Convention ratified by Belgium in 2016? Minister, where are the criminal prosecution policy directives in this area? Declarations of intent are no longer enough, we expect you to take swift action and a proactive policy in this area.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u20	Mr Minister, I have been very hesitant to ask you today about violence against women, as we have done in the past in the Committee on Justice, the Committee on the Interior, the Committee on Health and Equal Opportunities; and we have often had answers with declarations of intent, but few actions have followed. And then, I thought, in this case, what made the lack of strong measures was the lack of emotions. I thought that with the tragic events of the last two days, the deal had probably changed. I am not going to confront you with reminding you of the number of femicides in Belgium. I'm not going to fight you to remind you of the number of rankings without action. I am not going to confront you with reminding you that we are still failing to implement the obligations of the Istanbul Convention, which we have yet ratified. Minister, how do you intend to stem this scourge of violence against women? How do you intend to move it from the "miscellaneous facts" section to a real societal debate? How do you intend to implement a criminal policy such as, for example, the one established in Liège in 2004, which applied zero tolerance? What did your government do? What does he intend to do? It's a social emergency.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u21	I invite Mrs. Zanchetta to make her Mayden speech. You'll applaud him later.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u22	Mr President, Aurélie, this is the name of the last femicide victim in Belgium. Twenty-one women have died in Belgium since the beginning of the year under the blows of a spouse, a former spouse, a man, because they were women. And it is not to mention all those whose tragic outcome has not been reported in the media, all those who have lost their lives by keeping their burden down, and all those children who have been bruised by the violence of which they have been spectators. I will return to the number of complaints. In 2016, 40,000 complaints were filed for domestic violence. This represents more than one hundred complaints a day and eight out of ten women are still subjected to violence, several years after leaving their partner. Ladies and gentlemen, what is your government waiting for? What more do you need? Nothing, absolutely nothing moves! Neither at the level of the police, which continues, in many cases, not to provide victims with the reception they need, nor at the level of the justice system, which continues to make the ranking without follow-up at arm's length. It continues, in too many cases, to ignore the risk of recidivism among those who have taken the beatings. Ladies and gentlemen, the violence against women is multiple, physical, marked on the bodies. They are also moral, with threats and intimidation. They are economic when they deprive these women of the resources they need to live. We must make this fight against violence a political priority and identify the necessary resources. I ask you: when is a new national plan against violence against women, and when is a specific budget to implement it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u23	Thank you, dear colleague. We're going to be objective: it was a little long, but I congratulate you for your first time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u24	Mr President, Minister, Minister, feminicide is the word of the week. I hope it's not the word of the year. Give me something more cheerful, because the numbers are staggering. Two women a month are killed by their partner or ex-partner. One hundred and fifty murders a year are related to stalking. There are 22,000 complaints to the police about stalking every year. These are indeed staggering figures and we are not even talking about the dark number, because a lot of women just don't report them out of fear. They're afraid to leave their homes. They are afraid to go back home because they are at risk of being beaten up. We must not, of course, accept this, because murder of women is actually a trial. It starts with intimidation, then comes stalking followed by psychic and physical violence. As a government, we cannot just stand by and watch violence explode and these women become victims of murder. Madam Secretary mentioned a stalking alert she wanted to roll out. Today there is already a pilot project in Ghent. Unfortunately, this will only stop the escalation and we must therefore dare to go much further. This is literally and figuratively but a tissue for bleeding. First of all, we must try to prevent feminicide from happening at all. We must ensure better prevention and supervision of the perpetrators. We need to ensure that the police services work much more easily, and that there is a faster and more appropriate follow-up by those police services. I would therefore like to ask the Minister about the gender-related action plan against violence. What is the state of play in this respect? How is work done on the root causes of feminicide?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u25	Madam Minister, Minister, I am yet another woman in a row and, frankly, I am surprised that violence against women is apparently still primarily a matter for women. Here's a call that you'll be answering for us next time. I am not going to talk about statistics, because Mr Van Hoof has done so extensively. It is clear that we are dealing with a very serious social problem. We have talked about repression, about punishment. I am, of course, the first to advocate very strict and effective sanctions, but I would like to go one step further. I want to talk about how we can really turn the tide. How can we ensure that fewer women are the victims of gender-based violence? All experts agree that we need to look at the time bombs that are the perpetrators or the possible perpetrators. After all, they are time bombs, we know that. They start small, they usually also take a path from minor missteps to increasingly violent behavior. We do not intervene in this, we sometimes even laugh a little away. Furthermore, there are also scientifically based risk analyses that assess the risk of this time bomb becoming larger and larger and really explosive. What are the possibilities of intervention at the moment, Minister? What are the protection measures we apply to women? Right now, it's a removal, a restraining order, or a restraining order. Those are the only two options. So we temporarily put the time bomb out of the house, but that doesn't solve the problem, of course, because the removal is only temporary. I understand that salvation is near or should be near. So I would like to ask you how we can defuse that time bomb. There are possibilities. The law provides for that. As from January 2020, in the event of a temporary expulsion, the federal services must inform the regional services that they will be able to accompany both the possible perpetrators and the perpetrators. What is the state of play in that? Have you discussed this with your colleagues? Are you ready for that measure or is it still a dead letter?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u26	Aurélie, 31 years old, was murdered last week by her ex-partner. Jill, 36 years old, was murdered a few days later, including by her ex-partner. That's two women in one week. These are not isolated cases, Minister. Every ten days, a woman dies just because she's a woman. That should be a political priority today, but it is not. We are far too little concerned about this. The last letter from the Minister of Justice and the Public Prosecutor referring to violence against women dates back to 4 May 2007. Minister, do you think it is normal that there have been no new directives on violence against women for 12 years, six months and three days, when we are on the streets every year against this violence? Will you change that? Both women, Aurélie and Jill, had filed a complaint with the police. It was very clear that they were in a life-threatening situation. Still, nothing happened. Police and Justice failed. Minister, what measures will you take to prevent a repetition? A major problem is the laxity with which complaints are dealt with. For example, we hear that people in Ghent have to visit four times before something is done with their complaint. What are you going to do about this? Will you draw up a new circular to bring concrete changes to this? You spoke positively yesterday about the proposal of a stalking alert for suspects. Can you commit yourself here today to taking a concrete measure? Can you afford to do this? Finally, the Justice Department has failed here. Violence against women and feminicide must be priorities. There's no other way. In Spain, after a lot of movement among the population, 200 measures have been taken for women. There, 1 billion have been released for the women's cause.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u27	Minister, this year's figure is 19. About 20 women were already killed this year because they are women, two this week alone. Last year, there were 37. In 2017, there were 40 of them. Jill Himpe is the most recent victim and died the day before yesterday. She was stabbed to death by her ex-husband after he'd been assaulting and stalking her for months. In the National Security Plan, partner violence is a priority. Intra-family violence is a priority for the Justice and Police Department, right? Gender analyses would be foreseen and risk assessment tools would be developed to better identify signs of intra-family violence. That's all in there. However, reality is different. Feminicide, the murder of women after a course of stalking and abuse, is present in Belgium in a hard way. The numbers are staggering. Despite demonstrations, despite the proposals of the Women's Council, despite all the expertise, despite all the good intentions in the National Security Plan. Mr Minister, why do the priorities in the National Security Plan not lead to results? Why are the Family Justice Centers still not working enough? What means do you use on the theme of partner violence?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u28	Mr President, I would first like to express my sincere condolences to the victims and their families of family violence and to the recent crimes mentioned here. Violence against women has been discussed, but violence against the wife and partner has been discussed. I'm going to limit myself to it, excuse me. These are not the only violence against women, I know, but it is impossible for me to say everything in two minutes. It is certain that this priority has been very clear in the government's policy and that it is quite wrong to state that the last circular was issued in 2007. It is also clear that it is not only the partners, the women in this case, who suffer; children are also victims and may have lifetime consequences of what they have experienced with their families. Colleagues, please do not say that this has not been a government priority! Do not necessarily deduce from the fact that violence is still being exerted that the government has done nothing! It's a little short. You'll have to recognize him. First, I would say that the government has, as far as possible, strengthened the measures that had already been taken under the previous legislature. For example, an important network of expertise related to the ban on housing, which may impose the ban, has been set up within the framework of the College of Attorneys General. Attorney General De Valkeneer van Liege is perfectly prepared to explain as quickly as you wish in the Committee on Justice what has happened over the past few years in the field of combating partner violence. And then the Family Justice Centers say they don't work well enough. We all know that this is a chain violence. It is therefore also violence that must be countered in the chain between the Communities and the federal level: prevention and repression. There are more Family Justice Centers in Flanders than in Wallonia. That's right. But I must tell you that cooperation has worked in an exemplary way between the federal and regional levels. There are Family Justice Centers in Flanders, Antwerp, Hasselt, Turnhout, Malines. We're setting up the same thing in the Wallonia-Brussels Federation. The cooperation between the relevant Ministers, Mr Madrane, Mr Antoniadis, Mr Vandeurzen and myself, has worked perfectly over the last five years. As many of you have indicated, prevention is more important than repression because it usually comes too late. Prevention means that in the Family Justice Centers a collaboration between the police, the police, the OCMWs, the province, the Communities and the federal government will be possible under the seal of professional secrecy. This is already happening in many provinces in a very good way. Victims can testify secretly there. The various services may break the secret in the context of the common secrecy under the new Article 458, which came under the previous government, allowing open communication of such facts. You should not forget, however, that it is not easy for a man to speak in this discussion, so I am sorry that I have to do it anyway, because sometimes there is love. So it's a little less easy for the police and the public prosecutors. I'm not saying there's too little or too much dismissal. I do not dare to pass judgment on sufficient or insufficient follow-up. I know, however, that the whole of society is trying to save what remains of family ties, of the future for the family concerned, which means that sometimes too late intervention is necessary. The ban measure is precisely a non-penal measure, which allows the public to ban people from entering the house without the stigma of imprisonment in prison, making contact with the rest of the family impossible. So we are trying to solve things as lovingly as possible; that too is part of the truth. It means, however, that people are at risk. We cannot lock up every potentially violent man; I apologize for that. Even though I am aware that the questions do not relate to this, it is a very difficult balance which necessarily also fails. So you must understand that some of the dismissals, as the Attorney General will explain to you, are caused by the fact that a situation has apparently improved, after which the partner withdraws her complaint, which means that the police do not wish to cause any further unrest there. That's part of the truth. I will conclude, Mr President. The electronic anklet with GPS system is clearly a good measure, which can also work. The Communities are currently preparing this measure. The Justice Houses will be able to implement this measure from 1 January 2020; I will reply to a question from Mrs Liekens. Most recently, on May 5, 2019, we strengthened criminal legislation for those who do not comply with the contact ban. I'd like to hear everything, but there are limits! The circular on domestic violence of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the Minister was completely rewritten in 2015. It's a priority! Mrs Jiroflée, you have rightly said that it is a priority of the Integrated Security Framework Plan and of the National Police Security Service. It will have to be a priority again for the next government. The Integrated Security Framework Plan served for five years and was completely new. For the first time since 2004, Mrs Vindevoghel, ten years after the last, we have once again drawn up a framework plan. The following is already in preparation and will again include it as a priority. Please question the D.A. and the competent Attorney General. The Centre of Expertise has published a report on this subject. As such, Attorney General De Valkeneer is at your disposal and wishes to answer all your questions to indicate that this is clearly a priority of the Department of Public Prosecutions and the Minister of Justice. Mrs Muylle will answer all the other questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u29	There were seven speakers. Many questions have been asked, but let us try to stay within the limits.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 36% of Belgian women have already suffered sexual violence and 6% have been victims of domestic violence in the last year. These figures are particularly high. The consequences of physical, sexual, psychological or social violence cannot be underestimated. Since 2001, our country has therefore implemented four national plans to combat gender-based violence. In the spring of 2018, the interim report of the latter states that the majority of the 235 measures taken were implemented between December 2015 and December 2017. My services are preparing a new action plan, which will allow the next government to move forward quickly. For me, it is clear that violence between partners remains a government priority. Colleagues, since 2017, in several major cities, sexual violence treatment centres have been established, which are open day and night, seven days a week. Victims benefit from a multidisciplinary and holistic approach, including medical, psychological and legal care. They can file complaints on the spot. The existence of these centres has demonstrated a real need. During their first two years of activity, some 2,000 victims were treated. This figure is much higher than we originally planned. As many as 68 per cent of the victims registered in the centres filed complaints with the police. Again, this number is much higher than before. The government has been constantly looking for tools to lower the aid threshold. That's why we opened a discussion line – a cat line – led by psychologists, through which victims can contact a counsellor. For some of them, it is easier to write down what they have experienced than to do orally. Colleagues, a Flemish line is currently operational for five weeks. Two weeks ago, we also opened a French-speaking line. We see over 200 victims have signed up through the chatline. We also see that 3% of them bring his story for the first time, which also allows us to lead them to relief in a good way. In addition to the care centers and the chatline, we are currently working on a mobile alarm project, which was also referred to by several speakers. In this way, we want to move more actively towards protection and guidance, especially in life-threatening situations. It's a cell phone application that allows the victim to request urgent police help. It is also very important that a multidisciplinary team, including representatives of the parish, the police and local administration, and aid workers, investigates to which victim the tool can be assigned. It is even more important to link a full range of assistance. We will look not only at the guidance of the victim, but also at the family situation, we will check whether there are children and we will prepare a tailor-made route for this. Right now, we're operational without any victims testing in Ghent. In the coming weeks, the system will also be running with victims in Ghent, and it is planned to apply it throughout the country during 2020. Very briefly, I have also understood that initiatives were being taken in Parliament to introduce some kind of alarm when perpetrators are approaching, which can also be imposed as a measure. I want to be very clear on this: my services will cooperate fully in this. After all, I am convinced that any new safety measure is good. We will therefore make available our services to implement them. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, a great deal has already happened. As both of us have shown, we have already been able to do a lot of good business in terms of cooperation. We are nowhere near where we want to go, but I am convinced that today's holistic, multidisciplinary approach is the only way to win the fight against gender-based violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u31	I have had the Members of Parliament and the Ministers elaborate a little bit. Colleagues, I would remind you that the Rules of Procedure provide that the time allotted to the reply is limited to one minute. I shall then inform the Chamber of a sensational renewal which we will undertake in order to ensure that speaking time is better respected. This was decided unanimously in the Conference of Presidents. Making unanimous decisions remains possible in politics!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u32	Minister, Minister, thank you for these answers. Minister, I am a little shocked by the enthusiastic answers you have given. The returns that come from the field evoke a deficit in the care of those who file complaints, from the training of persons to the reception of police stations which do not provide an adequate response to the situation. They offer mediation formulas or send the victim straight back to her home saying they can't do anything. These are the testimonies we hear every day. In 2019 alone, most victims had filed complaints and sometimes several times. So there is a real problem here. I want to hear that some things have started, but I am still happy to hear Minister Muylle say that this is not enough and that we need to go further. We will, of course, support any initiative in this direction. We do not want a "gadget" policy. We will support the idea of setting up a remote bracelet. On the other hand, we do not want to make it a unique solution, key to door which, like a magic wand, would solve the problem. As you said, we need a cross-cutting policy at all levels, from prevention to conviction. It's fundamental.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u33	Mrs Schlitz, you have passed the minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u34	Mr President, I should like to conclude by reminding you that there will be four more victims by the end of December. I'm really warning you about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u35	Minister, Minister, thank you for your answers. I hear a great deal of unanimity in this Parliament to say that we must move forward. I would remind you that, earlier, the text on the electronic bracelet will be taken into consideration. From what I hear, the government seems to want to move forward. I therefore ask that this text be examined as soon as possible, but also other texts on the agenda. We must be able to move forward, but we must also have the means to do so. Sometimes your statements make me think that hell is paved with good intentions. Of course, your statements are important: what you want to put in place is essential. But if the means to ensure that they are accompanied are not there, it will be of no use! We'll just have raised hope. I ask you to make this debate a national cause, quickly and on the basis of the texts that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u36	Minister, Minister, thank you for your answers. You seem more optimistic than I am. Yes, my group has tabled a text for femicide to be included in the Penal Code. Yes, we have filed a text to secure victims by providing them with an alarm system when they are in danger. Yes, we plead for better training of police officers and magistrates. Yes, we want the perpetrators of violence to be monitored and prosecuted. We are well aware that it is not measures taken in isolation that will change the situation. A global response must be provided to avoid new tragedies, as we will surely live from them. By closely involving field associations and all levels of power, the new action plan must be an opportunity for a change of course, but human and budgetary resources must be provided.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u37	Madam Minister, Minister, in the early 1990s I was in the cabinet of Minister Miet Smet when the first action plans against violence were made. Since then, many action plans have been followed, including security plans. It would get a little tired, but I have to say, for the sake of fairness, that a lot of revolutionary things have happened during the previous period of government. I am thinking of the Family Justice Centers, the Care Centers after Sexual Violence, the restraining order and the chat line. Those are new things that matter. I believe that we should move forward on that momentum. We need a globally coordinated holistic approach, but we also need more staff and more financial resources to follow up on perpetrators and to do more about prevention. Those are things that need to be done. I hope that the next government will work on that. There is also a need for compulsory, non-binding training for the judiciary, the public prosecutor and the police, so that victims are taken seriously. In this way, we can work on prevention, the follow-up of the perpetrators and the supervision of the victims.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u38	Minister, you said that you find it regrettable and difficult to answer these questions as a man. I regret that, because this is a battle for all of us, not just for women. Thank you for joining us in this fight. I also understand that you have exceeded the difficult division of powers and that it is intended to deal with or deal with the perpetrators. That gives us great pleasure, because it is not just about the fight against the femicide. It is also about helping the thousands of women who live in fear, because the horror of a life in fear is sometimes worse than the femicide. I'd like to conclude with an appeal to all the women involved to press charges. Don't minimize it. Don't condone it, but report it, because you've heard it. It's the highest priority. We'll keep an eye on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u39	Minister, Minister, first of all I would like to talk about the circular. We were clearly talking about a circular around feminicide, about violence against women, while you are talking about the circular about intrafamilial violence. It's not exactly the same thing. We will support any initiative that is a step forward in tackling violence against women. We think that is very important. In two weeks, on 24 November, there will be the annual major demonstration of women's organisations. We will support them in their demands for the improvement of the position of women and join them on the streets.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u40	Minister, Minister, let me make it clear that I do not doubt your good will at all, but we note that in practice the declaration of partner violence often does not help enough to prevent murders. Apparently, filing a complaint for stalking does not lead to sufficient vigilance. We therefore call for a linear follow-up by the police of all complaints of violence, ringing or stalking by the partners or ex-partners. Only that will be good enough for those women who live in fear all the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u41	Mrs Zanchetta, I congratulate you on your Mayden speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u42	Minister, this week Eurostat published figures on crime in the various EU Member States. To put it euphemistically, it doesn't look famous for our country. Let me quote two figures. In the category of thefts, we have the questionable honor of being in the first place, with 167 declarations out of 100,000 inhabitants. In the category of murders we are in fifth place, with 1.8 murders per 100,000 inhabitants. These figures are not only hallucinating for me and many others, the federal police are shocked. She announced that she would find out where those numbers are coming from today and how the fork is on the handle. Minister, what is your response to these figures? More importantly, what additional measures will you take to deal drastically with the rising crime in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u43	Mr Minister, European statistics on crime were published yesterday. It must be noted that Belgium is not in a favourable position. We are fifth in homicides, first in robbery, second in assaults. It's quite challenging. However, some experts pointed out that these figures should be taken with tweezers, as apples and pears were "mixed" according to the phrase used in Today's Future. Indeed, some offences do not exist in some countries, others are not encoded, and since these are figures encoded by the police, it is not known what follow-up has been at the level of justice. These statistics can lead to a certain sense of insecurity among the population and give a detestable image of our country. Minister, what is your reading of this report? Do you think this data is biased?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u44	Mr President, Mr Depoostere and Mr Burton, the figures are from Eurostat, a European body, but they are provided by us. Eurostat is responsible for compiling statistics. The Member States themselves play a first-class role in this, even if they do not make the statistics themselves. This is very important to know. For the sake of clarity, the figures published in the press refer to the year 2017. When the figures for 2018 and 2019 are known, I will gladly hand them over to you. The figures come from our integrated police. In other words, it is not an external European body that has provided these figures. There's a record of crime. This is particularly important to us because any criminal fact should be registered with us. For this reason, there are also differences between the different countries. You know that registered crime is the subject of police efforts to identify correct information on crime from high to low crime. To us, a handbag theft is also a criminal act. There is no distinction between morale or value in these criminal acts. We encourage civilians to press charges. The more confidence there is in the police forces, the greater the willingness to report will and will remain. Mr Burton, you said you had to avoid mixing pears and apples. This is a great challenge for us because the Member States of Eurostat do not all apply the same criteria. In Belgium, improved methods were used to optimally detect possible murder in case of suspicious death. Identification of an accident is also much faster. We are forerunners in this area and this system is not applied in all countries, which may lead to some problems of interpretation. Moreover, unlike many European countries, Belgium has a very comprehensive registration system and a national database. These elements may in part explain Belgium's classification. Without wishing to put the figures into perspective, the only explanation and framework we can give is that of the comparison with previous years' figures and the comparison with similar facts abroad. I have instructed the competent department of the federal police to examine the figures and not to take any new initiatives, as the changed security threats in our country have also been identified in this study.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u45	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. You disappoint me a little about the great explanation, the methodology. We must not hide behind the methodology; we must take these figures seriously. Behind every report is a criminal fact. These figures must be taken seriously, because they do indicate the degree of safety in our country. Minister, during hearings by experts, but also, and above all, by people on the ground, the committee has repeatedly said that there are problems in the police services. There is talk of a capacity problem in the police, of a lack of resources and of a demotivated police because there is some form of impunity in the judicial field. Mr President, I would like to call on Members of this House to form an alternative majority in order to make available the necessary resources for security in our country. What was possible last week for the healthcare sector can today and perhaps even more to ensure the safety of every citizen in this country.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u46	Minister, thank you for your answers. You seem to take the numbers seriously as you compare with previous years. The recordings are very complete and well followed by our police, which is to their credit. The question remains about these figures and their use and about the search for objective and homogeneous criteria for the Member States.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u47	Minister, it is now five years after 5 August 2014. There are 56 suspects, and there's 138 million euros of damage. This week it appeared that there was not one incident, where 65,000 litres of lubricating oil leaked out, but that in the weeks before there were two other incidents. Next to the emergency pump that went out, there was an improper use of an emergency button, and silicone was sprayed into a door. A nuclear power plant, as we all know, has incredibly many safety procedures. It is therefore critical infrastructure. We have an institution to follow them, the FANC. However, a television programme is needed to expect a breakthrough in the research. That'll put things on edge. What has happened over the past five years? What actions have been taken? It also highlights other issues, namely that we did not know a number of things. Apparently, the FANC didn't announce the previous incidents? Was there any reason not to show transparency in this matter? In particular, what action has been taken on these incidents by the FANC, particularly as regards the safety culture? How were those incidents scaled up on the INES scale? Especially, Minister, yesterday it appeared that dozens of tips have already come to the police about the robot photo. How's the FANC handling these dozens of tips? Is there any co-operation between the police and the FANC? Is information being shared? How can it help to improve safety procedures?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u48	Minister, Mr Van der Straeten has already outlined the situation. After five years, the investigation is still stuck. There are 56 known people who had access to that room. This week, a robot photo has been distributed of a fifty-seven person who wants to speak to the court because he would have been seen there. But there's no motive yet, nor is there a perpetrator in sight. Nuclear power stations are indeed part of our country's critical infrastructure. They need to be secured. When we talk about security, we talk about external security and internal security. External security involves camera surveillance, access control, but also physical surveillance. Today there are still 140 soldiers guarding our nuclear power stations. Internal security is about internal badge and camera systems to ensure that the employees and contractors working in the nuclear power plants, in our critical infrastructure, do not use malicious practices. Mr Minister, my question is threefold. Firstly, how are our nuclear power plants protected from external threats today? Have measures been taken in this area over the past five years? Secondly, how long will the 140 military continue to guard the power stations? When will they be replaced by the police? On the other hand, should we be looking forward to a private company taking charge of surveillance? Thirdly, Minister, what internal measures have been taken over the last five years to strengthen security?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u49	Mr President, Mrs van der Straeten, Mr Vandenput, you are talking about the security of nuclear power stations, although we were actually talking about the sabotage actions that took place in Objective 4. I'll be very brief about security. You also know that we have often discussed this issue in the Committee on the Interior. This is a strategic installation for which special measures have been taken, both external and internal, and there is also military surveillance. A special level of terror applies to this too, whatever you know. New threats, which may not have existed in 2014, such as flying over or approaching by drone planes, also apply. The issue of external and internal security is a first priority of the government and of the Ministry of the Interior. Let me now turn to the incident that was the essence of the current question. This is the incident that took place in 2014. The agency was aware of two events with the pump, the first of which occurred in the summer of 2014, on 10 July 2014 to be exact. The second incident took place on 31 July 2014. I would like to make it clear that these incidents did not occur in the nuclear part of the Objective 4 reactor, but in the part considered non-nuclear. It is important to know that in the meantime we would have known that the incident had no impact on nuclear safety, either on the safety of persons or on the safety of the plant. Nor was there any security risk to the outside world. Let that be emphasised once again for the sake of clarity today. No INES evaluation has therefore been carried out either. I'd like to dwell on that. INES is the International Nuclear and Radiological Event Scale. That evaluation didn't happen because there was no nuclear incident. As a result, there was no external communication in 2014, where a procedure would have been initiated in one way or another. The investigation into the events of 2014 at the nuclear power plant has more than forced the FANC and the federal prosecutor to decide to investigate the events closely. They're very disturbing. Let's get that straight. A study has been launched in this context. That is once again the 'welcome' in which we sit. It's a judicial investigation. I can't say much about that investigation. We knew what the television broadcast could bring us. It was a very useful broadcast, by the way. I would like to pay tribute to those who have made this possible. Additional safety measures have been taken in all our nuclear plants, including those of Doel, to the extent that we can take additional safety measures in relation to such incidents. After all, we are sometimes a little bit on the inside of the outer lane when it comes to security measures. There were extra cameras. There is an access badge system that was expanded. The so-called four-eyes-principle has also been applied, which stipulates that one must always be physically present with two persons in such a possibility of abuse of manipulation. The FANC and the federal prosecutor are working together. I also hope that the appeal to the citizens of this country will lead to a solution to this problem, which should never happen again.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u50	Minister, you call it a useful broadcast and I am inclined to agree to it, but we should be even more concerned about that. We need a television programme to achieve a breakthrough in a file in which safety is so regulated. A limited number of people have access to certain spaces, but we still can't find the suspect there. I think everyone in this room, including you, has a very uncomfortable feeling about this. We will now have to work together to see how we can raise nuclear safety to a higher level. This incident makes us realize that the myth of the safe nuclear plant does not exist.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u51	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. We are very pleased that these additional measures have been implemented and are also bearing fruit on the ground. However, we know that much remains to be done. During the incidents that have occurred, there has always been a human intervention. It is therefore important to know who is at which point in the nuclear power stations. The new technologies must be used, such as camera surveillance with facial recognition. This will allow us to investigate more quickly what has happened and prevent such incidents.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u52	Yesterday, Minister, in front of the Liège courthouse, about 700 exasperated police officers protested against the violence against them. Everyone here will remember the terrifying murders committed in May and August 2018, during which two policemen were killed and another shot at close range. Most recently, on 9 September last, a policeman was injured at close range during a simple check, even if his days are not in danger. The police officers are, of course, the custodians of public authority. As such, they are monitored and punished if they use them illegitimately or disproportionately. This implies an important corollary, namely that society must itself be able to protect them in case of necessity and sometimes give them more means to defend themselves. In a State governed by the rule of law, violence against law enforcement personnel must be condemned, whatever it may be. However, they tend to multiply. So, Minister, have you met with the police unions, or is such a meeting planned, on the margins of yesterday's demonstrations? Have you made any commitments, particularly in terms of material input? I'm thinking about the body cams, which allow the police to protect themselves preventively. Are additional human resources being considered?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u53	Mr President, Mr De Smet, thank you for your questions. In response to your last question, since I took over responsibility for the department in December 2018, I have met without delay with all the personnel officials, be they trade unions, administrative officials, police personnel, representatives of firefighters, civil protection. These interviews were interesting and led to very concrete results, leading to solutions to considerable concerns. I wanted to stress that. I will be very clear: violence against police officers, first aid workers and other professions of general interest is totally unacceptable. I have applied the principle of zero tolerance to all these phenomena since I took office. Unfortunately, this is not a new phenomenon. Last year, 2,364 cases of violence were recorded, or about 6 per day. As far as the police are concerned, no fewer than 780 cases of assault were recorded in 2018. It's too much! It's too much and it's unacceptable! These figures are more or less comparable to those of previous years. Many measures have been taken in consultation with the police union representative organizations to ensure maximum protection for them. Mr President, I will mention two of them: the heavier weapons such as the FN SCAR.300 and the body cams that will be made available to the police these days. Special attention is paid to the reception of victims. For a full overview, I refer you to the resolution of the cdH group introduced in this Parliament on violence against the police. It will be discussed in committee next week. Once again, I insist on preventing any form of impunity for violence against the police and rescue forces. The new Criminal Code would also provide for heavy penalties for acts of violence committed against persons in public service. I think your question deserves a great debate in the Committee on the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u54	That's what we'll do!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u55	Minister, thank you for your very clear response and your commitment, particularly with regard to body cams. I would like to add one element. Yesterday at the demonstration, many police officers highlighted their natural overload of work and the slow pace of recruitment procedures. This does not seem to be related a priori to the violence against them, but in fact it is. Indeed, when they are many on the ground, the feeling of insecurity decreases. Thank you for continuing to follow this file.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u56	Mr President, Minister, yesterday and today we were told that Proximus wants to send some 550 workers, who will be 58 years old by the end of next year, home until retirement, with 70% to 75% of their wages. It concerns workers with a lot of experience and talent, who are most probably not asking to be sent home. It is incomprehensible and irresponsible in times of severe labour shortages. It is also difficult to accept in a context where almost all political parties are right to argue for a higher level of activity. Everyone finally realizes that we all need to work a little more and above all a little longer in order to continue to finance our social security. The argument that this would cost nothing to our social security because Proximus will pay a financial compensation is not correct. With this system a tax and social work bonus is activated, which directly leads to less revenue for the government. Through the technique of early retirement, Proximus has actually devised an escape route to avoid the activation contribution, which was just introduced a few years ago to counter such constructions. Madam Secretary, what do you think of Proximus' plans? Do you agree with me that these early retirement mechanisms do not really fit into the current context of our labour market and should disappear? Quite specifically, will the government approve the royal decree that allows the extension of three years' leave prior to retirement, i.e. the VVP system, from 58 years old for Proximus? If you do so, what will you do to ensure that full financial compensation is delivered to social security?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u57	Mr President, Minister, I have just looked at the figures. Proximus announced last year that 1,900 jobs will be lost due to digitalization, restructuring and a new platform, which is currently being worked on. At that time, there was no idea how this would be organized. We didn't know exactly how those jobs would die. Yesterday, however, Proximus informed staff about the social plan and the agreement concluded with the trade unions. Three thousand employees will be hit. The 58-plussers, accounting for 550 employees, will be able to stay at home with a wage retention of 70 to 80%. I do not think that a public undertaking sends out the right signal by taking such measures at the moment. Our labour market is screaming because it doesn't fill the vacancies. There are also several opportunities today, such as retraining, lifelong learning and so on. There is absolutely no need to send out the message that older workers can be pushed off the labour market in this way. In addition, there are voluntary departure premiums, which may apply to 1,300 Proximus staff. They would receive 1,500 euros gross for each year's seniority in exchange for their departure. However, the trade unions fear that, despite these measures, there will unfortunately be 500 more naked redundancies at Proximus. Hence my question, Madam Secretary. What does the restructuring of Proximus really look like today? What do we do with the 1,300 staff who are eligible for a voluntary exit grant? Are they being activated? How do we ensure that there are as few layoffs as possible? What happens if the social plan is not approved by the Joint Committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u58	Mr President, it is true that the negotiations on the restructuring of Proximus started in June 2019. At that time, conciliation was also launched at the request of different parties. Two social mediators were then appointed by the FOD WASO. Conciliation concerns two main issues: the great principles of restructuring and the analysis of the business units involved in restructuring. Within the mediation there are three main shutters, the transformation plan Fit For Purpose. In view of digitalisation, there is a clear need for retraining and internal mobility. 1,900 jobs could be removed and 1,250 new recruitments would take place. A number of shops would also be closed, which also concerns the seven business units, with a direct impact on the 3.350 employees. To this end, a social plan should be drawn up, which will be used to a large extent on voluntary departure. There are also many statutory employees at Proximus, who ask for special measures. It is also intended to look at the existing wage and working conditions of the people employed today and of the people who will start next year. You're both asking for my opinion today. I would like to make it clear once again that provisional agreements were concluded on 24 October. Those provisional agreements shall be submitted to the staff through information meetings. In addition, the trade unions submit the agreements to their supporters for consultation. On 18 November there will be a new conciliation meeting at which these provisional agreements will be discussed. I am convinced that we can reach a solution on 18 November. I will also make the necessary contacts in the coming days. There are many acceptable proposals on the table today that can answer the restructuring questions that lie ahead in the company. Until November 18th, I will give the meeting every opportunity. I hope for an adult agreement on November 18th.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u59	Mr President, Minister, I did indeed ask for your opinion, but you did not give it. However, that is not the most important thing. I believe that it is particularly important that the government tries to convince or even force companies like Proximus not to send older workers home early, while retaining wages. In my view, more and better tools are needed to create agile and workable work for older workers, so that they can stay on the labour market for longer in a feasible way. The N-VA will therefore retable a legislative proposal on start-up runways that has already been submitted. For the employee, this offers an ideal opportunity to give his or her career a different twist, without losing the safety net of the previous job. For the employer it is an important tool in the search for talent or in the search for a solution for employees for which it becomes too difficult. We believe that this is the only way to ensure that older workers can stay longer on the labour market in a credible and positive way. In this way, our social security can be better financed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u60	Mr President, Minister, I understand that you would like to wait until 18 November for the social dialogue to take place. We support you in this, but I do hope that Proximus will be called upon to ensure that they participate in lifelong learning policies. After all, we need every talent in the labour market. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u61	Madam Secretary, this is a flashback for me. A few weeks ago, I was standing here asking your colleague Marghem a question about the rising electricity bill. At that time, I gave a series of figures on energy poverty in our country. I could do that again, but we could also use our time to listen to your concrete proposals to do something for the affordability of the invoice. Madam Minister, I have only two questions for you. Firstly, the social tariff for electricity is granted half-yearly on the basis of the market price. Your predecessor, Minister Peeters, has frozen that price. My group thought that this was a good proposal, but unfortunately it was a temporary measure. I read that you are renegotiating a new calculation. What is the status of this consultation? Secondly, because electricity bills have risen so massively in recent years, more and more families have to rely on the social tariff. In Flanders alone, there are 206,000. For this group, the electricity bill has increased by 46% over the last four years, despite the social tariff. Those are really impressive figures. I would therefore like to hear from you which direction it is heading. For that group, it means a great deal when a social tariff is created, which is at least still social.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u62	Mrs Depraetere, I will be brief. You have outlined the situation very well; the social tariff for both natural gas and electricity has indeed been increased by more than 20%. You also referred to the freeze, which was extended until 31 January 2020. Together with the CREG, we have looked at how we could avoid major price fluctuations and shocks. That exercise is now done, because we have tried to do so quickly. I intend to present the result to the Council of Ministers in the coming weeks. However, I can already tell you what the spirit of the proposal will be. The aim is to come up with a proposal which provides for a quarterly calculation of the social rate. We work with a double ceiling, a lower and upper limit, to avoid brutal fluctuations in the social rate. This double ceiling means that the social rate will fluctuate within a limited margin, from trimester to trimester and on an annual basis. Those are the broad lines. I cannot say today what the upper limit and the lower limit will be. You will understand that I shall first request the approval of my colleagues. Either way, that's two or three weeks from now. You can be sure that we will then be able to cope with the great fluctuations by means of measures, with the double ceiling.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u63	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I am glad to hear that a draft has been prepared and that we will soon hear more about it. I certainly hope that the ceiling will be set correctly. After all, the latest proposals of the CREG showed an increase of 22%, while in recent years the increase was already high, including for the social tariff. I look forward to your design and I hope there will be a solid ceiling.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u64	Mr.President, Minister, on November 4, 2019, the Day of Unequal Pay Day is a very sad day. 4 November marks the day from which women are no longer paid, compared to men in similar positions in the same circumstances, until the end of this year. This is truly distressing at European level. It must be noted that the wage gap between men's and women's incomes is still 16%. Belgium is actually doing better. I'll give it to you! In our case, this gap is only 6%. This is much better than in most of our neighbouring countries. For cause, we've been doing this for some time now. In 2012, we passed a law aimed at putting in place measures and implementing policies aimed at gradually reducing the wage gap as quickly as possible. Unfortunately, the reasons for this totally unfair differentiation of treatment still lie in discrimination, in the lack of information in the sectors concerned. Minister, can we move on? Have you ever been able to read the report on the evaluation of this law that we passed in 2012?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u65	Mr President, Madam Minister, women today earn 20% less than men for equal work. They receive 28% less pension than men. Only 34 per cent of women still hold leadership positions. The figures of the 2019 socio-economic barometer published by the FGTB confirm this. In 2019, equal pay for men and women is still not a reality in our country. It's dismaying! Minister, as you know, in some respects this wage gap can be explained objectively. But you also know – and that is what we denounce – that a significant part of the wage gap between men and women is the result of direct or indirect discrimination. The studies and trainings chosen by women and men are already the result of persistent stereotypes. Women's careers are often penalized because of family responsibilities and difficulties in reconciling private and professional life. Women's work remains concentrated in some areas where wages are below average, such as health care, education or distribution. They are also hampered in access to the highest responsibilities and thus higher wages with immediate consequences. This is how they get less at the end of the month, they have fewer extra-legal benefits. And the consequences of this wage inequality continue throughout their lives as it will have a direct impact on their pensions. I come to my question, Mr. President. Over the past five years there has been little – if any – progress in tackling the wage gap. Let me say otherwise: this government has never dealt with this issue with its arms. Minister, you've inherited the Equal Opportunity portfolio for the last few weeks. Is a change of course envisaged?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you know the problem. You have quoted this last calculation which concerns Belgium. I would point out that this figure is based on the average gross monthly wage of full-time and part-time workers. By comparing gross hourly wages, Belgium is among the good pupils compared to other European countries with 6% of the difference. However, according to the statistics of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), the wage gap in Belgium is only 3.7 per cent. This figure puts us in the top 3 of the best performing countries. The fact that Belgium achieves good results from an international perspective is certainly also due to the general wage formation in our country. Pay scales, for example, are set out in a collective labour agreement which is declared universally binding and applies to the whole sector. In addition, since 2012, the Wage Gap Act obliges employers to analyse the remuneration of men and women and aims to make the classification systems of functions gender neutral. Of course, we can only be satisfied when there is no wage gap at all. I would like to stress that it is also important to pay attention to the career gap, because many more women work part-time, take parental leave and run into a glass ceiling. There is still work to be done to bridge this gap between women's and men's careers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u67	Thank you, Madam Minister, for having substantiated the reasons for being, unfortunately still present, figures that you confirm and corroborate my own, even if they may not correspond to those of my colleague. I hope you don't have the figures from the PTB's study office, which are still very alarmist! In any case, it is not to be welcomed that there is always a gap between men's and women's wages. For equal work, we want equal pay.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u68	Don't worry, I have the right numbers! Like my colleague earlier, who was talking about violence against women, I believe that fighting the wage gap between women and men has never been a priority of this government. Indeed, equality between women and men, in all its components, you have nothing to do with it, except, of course, a few beautiful lyrical flights in the media. On the contrary, you have only deteriorated the situation of women. See the measures taken in recent years: tightening of the conditions for access to the pension, raising the legal age of the pension to 67, attacks on similar periods, flexibilisation of overemployment, decrease for women working part-time voluntarily, no real decriminalisation of the abortion. But, Madam Minister, I would like to inform you that we have nevertheless put texts on the table. These include pay equity and the creation of an equality label within companies, and a better balance between birth and parental leave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to remind you of the fairly historic renewal we are going to undertake. We will draw up a number of clocks here. They'll be visible to the press, too. The regulatory speaking time shall be two minutes. After 1 minute and 45 seconds, the light will jump from green to red. That color is pure coincidence, there may be other shades of color. After two minutes, the microphone goes off automatically. That will also apply to the members of the government. I had a discussion yesterday with Mr Van Peel on the Management Committee. We have also submitted it to the Conference of Presidents. I hope, knowing the speed of the services of the Chamber, that we will certainly be able to receive that gift against Saint Nicholas.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u70	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Karin Jiroflée, John Crombez, Valerie Van Peel, Servais Verherstraeten, Sophie De Wit, Sophie Rohonyi, Goedele Liekens, Philippe Goffin.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u71	The general discussion is open. The general discussion is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u72	Mr President, I refer to the written report. Mrs Liekens will be speaking for the Open Vld Group shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by quoting a few comments, because I think that the victims in particular should be able to speak here. Paul: "I am a 60-year-old man. I was 11 when it happened, and this is the first time I've shared my story. The perpetrator walks quietly around my congregation and my silence has given him a lifelong release." Dirk: "Fifty-five am I now and I don't understand why I kept silent for so long, but it's so hard to learn how to deal with what happened to me; the associated emotions and feelings that most victims have to deal with all by themselves, because no one believes it, because the unsub manipulates you into shame and silence. I didn't realize what had happened until very late in my life, but I was 40 years old. It took me fifteen years to place this because the least I can do is throw me back into the past: a movie, beautiful music, a wonderful performance, a joke, a smell or new facts that come out. All this time, I'm powerless. Again. After all, the facts are time-barred." Annie: "My youth has been taken from me. It took me until I was 36 to dress and behave as a woman, and even longer to understand how much damage the damage actually was. I got it when my own kids got the same age as I did back then. Too bad it came so late. Child abuse, in whatever form, must never be allowed to lapse. Misfits think they're untouchable. Victims must feel that they can't just get away with this and that such a perpetrator can't continue to make victims. Because I'm not alone here in the village, I know that by now." Lize: "In my youth I was abused by my brother, who continues to deny everything, while I was not the only one he abused. He's supported by my mother. We were instructed to remain silent and cover everything with the cloak of love. Pretend nothing happened. I've lived with this for over 40 years. But now I'm stronger in life and I can't keep quiet. I'd give a lot if I could at least file a complaint so that he could answer. That too is part of the processing. I just wanted to say this and hope passionately that you can reverse the statute of limitations on such far-reaching facts." Louis: "If the limitation period of child abuse were to fall, I would feel a lot less bad. It's too late for me. I realize that. The pain, even if it is more than forty years ago, will never go away, but at least it will be different for later victims and that gives hope." After my own testimony three years ago, without exaggeration, I received hundreds of those e-mails, all of them victims. Between those stories, there were only a few who could have brought it to trial, and that's wrong, so wrong. Still, even if it's been three years, I'm being addressed weekly by a new victim. We still underestimate how widespread child abuse is, we still underestimate what it does to someone, and we often underestimate and fail to understand why someone is silent for so long, while silence and silence by the perpetrator is just an essential part of this type of crime. Just as a result, the limitation period for many victims is unfortunately an unfeasible hurdle. What is going on here today seems to some of you to be something that will not immediately make the big difference in practice, and for some of your lawyers it is a path that should not be followed. A friend of mine once told me that for lawyers there are only two certainties in life: the sun rises and things ages. And yet I also ask them to question this kind of certainty about these crimes, just as the Netherlands did years ago, because child abuse is an eminently silent crime. This may be very difficult to understand for people who have not experienced it, but the many people who have experienced it understand that very well. Child abusers make that silence their trademark. They manipulate the victim, who is still a child, to that end, usually with great success. As a result, the child often learns to talk about exactly what happened decades later. Just so we're clear, I don't want to strengthen that silence. As a society, we have a duty to create a safe environment in which victims can come out immediately. That is not only healthier for them, but it also makes lawsuits more likely to succeed. Today we stand where we stand and we are not yet there. Many steps have been taken in recent years to deal with this issue more openly, but the road is still long. After all, there are still a lot of stories hidden, stories that people eat up from the inside and often never find their way out with all the consequences. What we have here today is more than just a means of actually punishing more of the perpetrators. Today, virtually all child abusers go free. Most of the time, they're never even addressed to the facts. Only a few stick to one victim. That's not unimportant to know. So it's not just the established fact that every child abuser who gets caught means saving our children. It is not just a question of someone like Vangheluwe enjoying his pension today, but actually sitting in court. I wouldn't be sorry. There is no reason to allow perpetrators to go free when the evidence is available, simply because the facts are legally statute-barred. As far as I am concerned, anyone who has committed this kind of crime will never have to walk around in peace. It's about a lot more, colleagues. It is a signal of understanding for the victims. It is a question of understanding that this limitation period is often yet another blow to them in a process that the victim has to be powerless over and over again. First as a child, later as the adult who according to society often did not come out with his story in time. What's on time? What makes 15 years after the age of majority sufficient? Or 20, or even 30? The day after my testimony, I was addressed on a single evening by no less than six men from over sixty to seventy years old. They all kept quiet until that day. They had come to an explanation specifically for that. For all of them, every day of their lives would have been a fight to understand what had happened to them. Have they kept quiet for too long? Are they guilty of that? Or do we also have a duty for them to at least keep all options open? I understand that after all these years, the burden of proof is very difficult, but so is she after 15 years. She's been there even after 48 hours. Moreover, it will be up to the lawyers to be honest with their clients, to see if a case still has a chance and to start looking for other victims of the same perpetrator, because there are unfortunately many of them. Together, we might be able to prove it. Above all, the choice of what to do should be with the victim for once, not with us. The victim's had to suffer enough of his own willlessness. I therefore hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you will all support the proposal across party boundaries. I want to thank everyone, but especially John Crombez, for joining the cart. I hope you all understand the importance.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u74	All the groups are listed, I respect the order.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u75	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is, of course, very difficult to take the floor here after Mrs van Peel, whom I admire very much, for her courage with which she came to testify; I would like to say that. Colleagues, the issue of sexual violence is also receiving a great deal of attention in Parliament. That was the case in the past, and I am sure that will be the case in the future. Let me remind you of whatever debates we have had in the past. In 2016, the Advisory Committee for Social Emancipation thoroughly examined the issue of rapes, including numerous hearings. This work resulted in a resolution that was unanimously adopted in 2017. It called on the government to take initiatives in many areas in the fight against rape and sexual violence in order to reduce the dark number. That dark number is still very high, according to estimates 90%; 90% of the victims are not taking the step to Justice today, for many and often understandable reasons. This year, the Supreme Court of Justice has issued a series of recommendations to improve the approach of the Justice of Sexual Violence. They aim, among other things, to increase the low level of willingness to report and to reduce the number of cases dismissed by the public prosecutor. These figures are very high. It is also important to collect evidence more quickly. Also in 2011, the special committee on "sexual abuse" discussed the issue in depth and made numerous recommendations. As a result, the limitation period for the abuse of minors was increased from 10 years to 15 years from the age of majority of the victim. The abolition of the limitation period was never recommended in the previous work of the committee. There have never been any specific hearings on abolition in the past. That measure is now on the table. In committee, however, there was no room and no willingness to discuss the proposals in depth with all the actors involved. Our group deeply regrets this. Opinions on the proposal are divided on the ground. There are strong supporters of good and sensitive arguments, but there are equally many people and organisations with equally good arguments. It is a missed chance that Parliament has not heard the people involved. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone agrees that a global approach is essential in order to be able to take major steps forward. We are talking about an approach that was, for example, set out in the 2017 resolution, to which I have already referred and which was unanimously approved in the Chamber. However, there is no such consensus on the abolition of the limitation period. That does not mean, however, that one is right and the other is not. We must conduct the debate in a serene manner. We were able to do the same in committee. Everyone wants to improve the situation of the victims. Everyone wants them to be able to report more quickly and that there is sufficient expertise for rapid and professional action, both in the field of assistance and in the field of police and justice. Everyone also wants there to be fewer dismissals, that perpetrators are convicted more quickly and that as little as possible is repeated after a conviction. Such crimes affect the integrity of the victim in an incomparable way, which often takes years to talk about and take the step to the police, the court or the aid. Proponents particularly refer to these arguments when they argue for the abolition of the limitation period, but the later a declaration is made, the more difficult it becomes to collect evidence and testimonies. It is essential that evidence is collected within 24 hours, at the latest after 72 hours. It is essential that policy should focus on promoting it. The role of the provincial health care centres after Sexual Violence in Question Time was referred to it. The approach in the care centre of Ghent, one of the first to start, shows enormous added value, also in cooperation with police and justice. Unfortunately, these care centres are not yet available in all the provinces. There are only three provinces. Unfortunately, there is no financial resources to set it up anywhere in the country. Ecolo-Green therefore calls for these resources to be provided as a matter of priority. That would be a great step forward. The problem of proof is still there today, with the limitation period that exists today. That's right. That is what the advocates of the legislative proposal rightly note, but the introduction of non-annuality does not solve this problem either. The authors of the bill are well aware of this. They themselves wrote in the explanatory memorandum to the bill: "We realize that many years after the facts there will no longer be proof and legal action will result in an extradiction due to lack of evidence. However, in our opinion, the possibility of turning to the court remains symbolically important, not only for society, but above all for the process of processing the victims." The authors themselves admit that this bill has a symbolic importance, but that can also be important for the victims. On the other hand, it can also lead to the creation of expectations among the victims that can no longer be fulfilled by the justice system, because, in the absence of evidence, there will be no further condemnation, which can lead to new frustrations and anger at our legal system and the functioning of our justice system. In any case, there must be a place for the victims where they can always get their stories and where they can get the necessary help and support. It's important that victims have a place where they can go with their stories. Following the work of the Special Committee on Sexual Abuse, an arbitration board was set up for victims of old age cases. There were indeed victims at that time who were 60, 70 or 80 years old. For many of these victims, it was important that they were given recognition of the suffering that had been done to them, even though they knew that there was nothing more for them to do. Initiatives have already been taken to this effect, places where one can go to report and talk about it, but they deserve much more attention and publicity. An extension of their operation is also necessary. Let us all work on this as well. It is for all these reasons that our group, like the committee, will abstain in the vote. The problem deserves a broad approach. Our group will continue to do so and you will always find a partner in us for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u76	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, prescription has always been one of the cornerstones of our judicial system. It is a founding principle of our law, inherited from Roman times and inscribed under Napoleon in the Code of Criminal Investigation of 1808. The statute of limitations makes it possible to reconcile several fundamental requirements in our judicial system and creates a fragile balance between, on the one hand, legal certainty, the right of accused persons to be tried with due respect for the rights of the defence and within a reasonable period of time and, on the other hand, the essential right of the victims. It is justified for many reasons which remain relevant. First of all, the passage of time has consequences for the quality of the trial and for legal certainty, in particular due to the loss of evidence and the weakening of testimony. Secondly, the efficiency and effectiveness of justice requires prompt investigations and trials in order to ensure the usefulness of the sentence, not to mention the principle of exceeding the reasonable time frame and the necessary preservation of the social peace resulting therefrom. Finally, in the opinion of the legal professionals themselves, the passage of a long time creates risks to legal certainty and an obvious risk of disappointment for the victims. Indeed, if a complaint does not succeed, if the department decides not to proceed, or if the person in question is dismissed, acquitted or punished lightly, the victims could experience these decisions as a denial of their word and trauma. That is why, in my group's view, the principle of the limitation period remains essential and fundamental in our legal order. We affirm that there is no exception to this principle other than that which is subject to our sagacity today. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, we know that sexual abuse of minors is a real scourge and has caused profound trauma in Belgium. No one can ever forget the victims who made the headlines of the press; no one can forget the stories of the victims of the Church; no one knows either that our work is not complete and that victims still exist within families and other bodies. For them today, Parliament wants to launch a clear signal with a strong symbol: we recognise them in their statute. We are at their side and support them. Parliament also wants to warn potential authors that they will now know that, regardless of where they will be and when the victim will speak, they will be prosecuted. Ladies and gentlemen, this is just a step. May we do much more tomorrow by making every effort to bring down taboos related to sexual assaults so that the victims, minors or adults, feel sufficiently powerful, supported, accompanied to report the facts as close as possible to the offence. Let us do all we can to make it easier to establish the evidence against the authors, to drastically reduce the rankings without follow-up, to avoid new victims and to take care of them especially immediately. To this end, let us give our police and justice, which suffer from a structural shortage of human, financial and material resources, the means to act humanely and quickly in the face of these unacceptable crimes and offences. Only such measures will have a real impact on this scourge. Only such measures will effectively help to stem these tragedies.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u77	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we fully support this proposal. The Flemish Interest Group is very pleased that the spirit has finally matured in this dossier. In the case of child sexual abuse, it is important to say that this is primarily about abuse of power. This abuse of power is opposed to the restoration of equality. Many victims take years to come to the conclusion that they cannot live worthy of what happened to them. The knowledge that the facts are time-barred at the moment when victims are finally able to speak about them discourages them. They also clash with the silence of society. The abolition or significant extension of the limitation period as a signal for the seriousness of the facts can break society's misconception. "We would like to see the limitation period abolished completely. However, this would be difficult to fit into our current legal system. We therefore call for a significant extension of the limitation period to 50 years after the victim's adulthood." What I have just quoted comes from a bill submitted by Alexandra Cole, Bert Schoofs, Gerolf Annemans and Peter Logghe for our group on 10 January 2011. This happened in response to the confessions of Bishop Vangheluwe. This bill was then voted down by all the other parties in this hemisphere. Today, almost nine years later, an almost identical bill from the politically correct parties is finally on the table. Since laws cannot be applied retroactively, it is a pity that some paedophiles have been given a nine-year chance to escape the dance forever. We also note that today we are voting on a legislative proposal which completely abolishes the limitation period. This is also a fervent wish for our group, but we wonder whether this will survive the legality test at all levels. All parties should have voted unanimously for our bill nine years ago. I repeat, we are very proud that this bill is finally on the table today, and we shall be voting for it with great enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this text, which is called a new emotional law, effectively opposes lawyers, lawyers, magistrates and victims and their representatives. What are the arguments against? The removal of the limitation period is a general principle of law that applies to all offences. Only a few exceptions exist: genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity. Extending the list of imprescriptible offences could therefore create a precedent and undermine the very basis of the statute of limitations. Other infringements could also justify this extension tomorrow. Second, the lawyers highlight the difficulty of finding evidence years later and stress that, as a result, most legal actions would lead to a dismissal. Finally, the removal of the statute of limitations would lead to an increase in the number of judicial errors. No legalist can be insensitive to these arguments and yet the arguments in favour of the victims weigh much heavier in the balance, without falling into emotion. Anyone who has heard the testimony of victims of serious sexual offences knows how much time is essential in the process of acceptance, in the process of reparation. Accepting that the fact has been committed, talking about it, and finally deciding to file a complaint is an extremely lengthy process. It can take decades, as the trauma is deeply buried by these young victims, children or adolescents at the time of the incident. Some will never dare to talk about it. To vote for the abolition of the statute of limitations for serious sexual offences committed against minors may be contrary to the general principles of law. But how not to be sensitive to a child's special vulnerability to abuse, of which a thousand and one reasons are fear, shame, loyalty, intimidation, guilt or refoulement, prevent him from expressing himself at the time of the act. My group has co-signed this bill on the abolition of the statute of limitations because it is an important gesture towards the victims, but it is also a strong signal for society because it finally puts an end to the authors' sense of impunity. I hope that a large majority of the House will be sensitive to these arguments and support, as we do, this text.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I rise today to say that my group will support this bill. We support it because we hear the social need that justifies this text. We also support it because we know that filing a complaint may not be obvious because of a complex family context, post-traumatic amnesia, the perpetual consequences of these crimes, the aggressor's grip. By our gesture, we want to support the victims. We want them to feel free to act, to fully exercise their rights and that their victim status can be recognized, regardless of the time frame. I've been a little girl's daddy for just a year. I can't imagine anyone could abuse my child. I dare not imagine that his attacker may be a trusted person, a person belonging to his family or a friend of the family. I dare even less imagine that on the day she has the courage to denounce this violence and to file a complaint, she can be prevented from doing so because the deadlines are exceeded. It is for all these reasons that we support this proposal. However, I would like to point out that the imprescriptibility exists for two types of crimes, namely crimes against humanity and genocide. Today we are adding a third exception, but this should not be an open door to extending these exceptions to other offences. If that were the case, the exception would be meaningless. Colleagues, I wanted to remind you of this warning. In our society, it is unacceptable that perpetrators of such abominable crimes should be able to escape justice because deadlines have passed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u80	Mr President, I did not know what to expect, so I wrote down some key words. Colleagues, for me, the fight against sexual violence was one of the main reasons why I decided to go into politics. I notice, fortunately, that sexual violence is getting more and more attention here. This draft law, which I have put my shoulders on, is a first step in the right direction for me. It is important to say this: it is a first step in the right direction. I know the counter-arguments. Most of you know them, too. One of the main counter-arguments is that we should encourage victims to report it as soon as possible. That remains, of course, the case. The willingness to report only 10% of the victims is far too low. We must lower the threshold, and we must continue to do so. We must create a safe environment, we must ensure that expertise is present, so that there is a safe place for victims to go. But one doesn't rule out the other, of course. Therefore, we should not throw the child away with the bath water. Another counter-argument that one often hears is that one is at risk of secondary victimisation, because the victims will not be heard and the perpetrators will not be convicted, because over the years, of course, the evidence becomes scarcer, the witnesses are no longer there, or they do not remember, the physical evidence is gone, the traces have been erased. But expertise teaches us that this is also the case after 15 years. Even after 15 years, the tracks have been erased and evidence is becoming increasingly difficult. The crucial moment falls even after two days. In short, that is no reason not to support the bill. Moreover, is the limitation period not going to pave the way for precisely victimisation, because the victims are actually accused of having waited too long for a declaration to be made? In fact, they are told that they are guilty of the fact that an unsub is still out there. That, too, is a reason for me to say that the limitation period should not be maintained. But the main reason for removing the limitation period is that our society must give the signal that we take these crimes very seriously. The experience with victims of sexual abuse that I have as a psychologist and sexologist, nationally and internationally, shows that this is exactly what perpetrators do. Perpetrators manipulate their victims, they have power over their victims, and they make it clear that it's not a big deal, that it's not all that serious and that they might have wanted it a little bit, like just friends to each other. Those are the typical power games. It's the typical manipulation that perps use to silence their victims, apart from threats, of course. As a result, children often do not realize how serious the facts are and it takes them a very long time to realize that. It is very important for society to give the signal that these actions are serious, so serious that we never want to talk about them. There is no time limit beyond which offenders are allowed to go free. It is also important for the victims' processing process to be heard, for them to be recognised for the facts that have been done to them, even if there is less evidence of proof and even if they run the risk of losing the process. That seems to me to be the responsibility of the lawyers. Even then they can be heard, they can go somewhere. The limitation period is yet another blow to the face of a victim. It is high time to show understanding for the victims. Our group is aware that it is only a first step in the right direction and that we will have to look at the problem of the limitation period as a whole. Weird situations are happening now. However, how does one eat an elephant? Piece by piece, of course. So let's start with the first piece. We support the bill and I call on you to do the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u81	Mr President, it is rather unreal to have this discussion in plenary because we are doing something that is unbelievable in society. Parties of different colors and families are used to discussing and knocking themselves on their chests, saying that they were the first and that they did well after all, and that happened once this afternoon, but that is not very bad, while victims only ask for a just settlement. Justice is not just a legal discussion. The authors of the proposal have all been contacted repeatedly and it appears that it is about children or young people experiencing something that they could not do anything about, where the abuser's dominant position, as has been explained a few times here, has not been able or dared to do anything about and which they think should not be talked about for their environment. It is about the fact that suddenly one day, for example, when they are older than a child who is old enough to become a victim, while the perpetrator of their abuse is still out there, is still able to commit abuse of power and may still be a perpetrator, they can say that after twenty years they will not remain silent. That is enough reason for me to drop, exceptionally, the statute of limitations. I say exceptionally, because, as in the Netherlands, we should not think that if we delete the possibility of limitation for such crimes, we should also do so for other crimes. It must remain an exceptional rule. I can understand the arguments of the lawyers, but I cannot accept them. It is difficult to gather evidence then, as a Parliament, take steps to be able to collect a lot of evidence in these cases. This will give people the chance to get a case, to get a conviction and to protect other children. Child abuse and sexual violence against minors are far too common in our country. Girls and young women in particular are the victims of this: up to one in six of them have already been victims. In our country, unsubs get a very low sentence, which doesn't increase. Parliament can then, with all due understanding for the comments of lawyers, decide not to allow such acts to be allowed to lapse and to take measures to make the taking of evidence much easier, so that the chances of a case coming up and of the perpetrators being convicted are greatly increased. That's a social signal. I would therefore like, like Mr Liekens, to call for the plenary to vote in favour, including those who are in doubt, even for legitimate reasons, so that the public signal is given to Parliament. That's just a call. Everyone has a democratic right to do what they want. I would like to begin by thanking the colleagues from various groups who, from the outset, supported the proposal, namely DéFI, MR, CD&V, Open Vld and N-VA, but also the colleagues who did not sign the proposal, for the discussion we had in committee. It's an important step and, as far as I'm concerned, let it be a start. After all, politics often shows to the public that it is divided and that it is difficult to solve and deal with matters. Mr Van Hecke is wrong that this would only be a symbol. It is much more than a symbol; it is a social issue on which we all agree in the end that we must work hard on it and do much more about it. We have said for too long that we think this is important, without improving anything about it. So please let it be the start of measures that we can take across party boundaries to tackle the situation seriously. Once again, I would like to thank my fellow Members who have made sure that we have come to this point. Now all we have to do is vote. Let's all vote for it. That's all I can ask.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u82	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we have to vote on a particularly sensitive and sensitive text. Not only because of the subject matter it seeks, namely the imprescriptibility of sexual offences, not only for the public it aims at, in this case for minors of age, but also for the scope it assumes and the risks it could create for the legal order of things, the judicial order itself. One cannot help but wonder that a text originally carried by the only Vlaams Belang and rejected by all the other parties, just a few years ago, is now at the heart of our debates with apparently massive support that no particular topicality demands. And even if that would have been the case, we all know, legislating in haste, under the blow of emotion, is very often bad advice. At a time when so many issues should be at stake in our country, we cannot help but wonder about the urgency of having to deal with this subject in contempt of even the slightest hearing, a step which our group has repeatedly called for, and by others, so that our work may be informed of the collateral and professional aspects of this issue beyond the emotional question. We would indeed have liked to have benefited from the input of experts to verify that the repeal of the statute of limitations for these crimes and offences was in the interest of the victims, some of whom have sometimes made a strong point of speaking in their place. This was refused to us and we deplore it all the more because lawyers.be and the trade union association of magistrates had expressed serious doubts and had asked several times to be heard. However, everyone will agree, and I have no doubt about it, that minors are a particularly fragile audience to which the greatest attention must be paid. I am also sure everyone will agree that any physical or moral harm to a child or adolescent is reprehensible. Everyone will also agree, and the adoption of this text will demonstrate, that any sexual assault is most abject. The text we are debating is intended to respond to this profound societal indignation, by no longer limiting the ability of a victim to seek redress by filing a complaint and by initiating an investigation for crimes or crimes committed before the age of 18 and of a sexual or similar nature. For some victims, we are aware that the criminal statute of limitations is seen as a denial of justice and as a major obstacle to reconstruction. However, it must be asked whether, for others, the dismissal or acquittal of the suspect is not even worse at any time. At the CDH, the desire to protect the weakest bears our conviction that this text deserves to be supported despite the fact that a series of questions remain. We have reserves, even, that continue to win us. How would a grievous crime, after torture, stabbing or strangulation, committed against a minor of age be less scandalous than a sexual offence that did not result in death? The imprescriptibility would apply only in the latter case, and not in the others, on the sole ground that there was no sexual dimension grafted on horror. How can we explain this to parents? The imprescriptibility would apply in the future to someone who has committed voyeurism, and even an attempt at voyeurism. While it would not be in the case of a child who has been abused, beaten or psychologically destroyed throughout his youth. Are we sure we're reasonable? Exhibitionism is elevated to the same rank, by virtue of this imprescriptibility, as crimes against humanity or genocide. Again, are we sure we're reasonable? The amendment approved in committee, aimed at extending the law, is, in our view, excessive. Without being able to refer the text back to committee, where we do not have the right to vote, to analyse the text again, but above all to analyse it seriously and without the haste desired by a large majority of the parties in this House, we must choose between two extreme postures: either to reject a text with excesses to the detriment, in this case, of the legitimate protection of the weakest of us in a specific framework, or to validate a text which, despite its imperfections and its faults, aims to strengthen the essential protection to be offered to our minors when sexual offences are aimed at them. Between two evils, one has to choose the least, it is often said. Between two convictions, you have to choose the strongest one. For the CDH, today, the one that is needed remains and will always remain, and above all, that of the protection of our children and adolescents. We must remain sensitive to the suffering of victims of very old and committed acts when they were minors. Despite our doubts, we will therefore vote in favour of this text in the hope that it will ultimately do more good than harm. We believe that there will probably be few victims of events for which the statute of limitations has not yet been reached who will wish to file a complaint and, even less, who will obtain a conviction - as the authors of the bill acknowledge. However, if this text can give satisfaction to several victims, so much the better. The examination of these complaints will mobilize resources that will not be devoted to others that relate to more recent acts. If the attention to older victims is not to be paid to the detriment of more recent victims, and vice versa, as we have long been asking, there will be a need to substantially refinance justice. He is the poor parent, shamefully and for too long, of our federal administration. Finally, the imprescriptibility of certain crimes and offences, such as those we are looking at today, should not lead to the death of the criminal statute of limitations as a whole. This is an aspect to which the CDH will continue to pay particular attention in future debates. Indeed, in many situations, this requirement continues to be meaningful. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u83	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in 1996 I was nine, exactly the same age as Julie and Melissa. I am thus part of this generation of children who have never ceased to say to each other – during a period that must have been that of carelessness – that all these victims could have been us, our classmates, our sisters, our cousins, our neighbours. It was on the basis of this case that the legislator realized that it was necessary to enshrine in our Constitution and then in our laws any provision that could better protect children and, if necessary, enable them to rebuild themselves, to overcome the trauma they will bear in their entire lives and thus to be fully recognized as victims of what they have experienced. Our bill pursues precisely that objective. This proactive role of the State has also been recognized by the European Court of Human Rights in a unfortunately abundant case law on child sex crimes. That is why our bill is aimed at eliminating the statute of limitations on sexual crimes against minors. The requirement of a public action is that, after a certain period of time, the authors of a fact can no longer be prosecuted, in a logic of balance between the interests of the victim on the one hand and the rights of the defence on the other. It is generally justified by the reduction of the disorder to the social order due to the lapse of time, by the loss or weakening of evidence, by the loss of memories in witnesses and the consequent increase in the risk of miscarriage of justice, or by the impairment of the rights of the defence. Let me tell you that these justifications are difficult to deal with the specific nature of the sexual crimes against minors, to which our proposed law is confined, exactly as the Swiss legislator did in 2013, following a case of sexual abuse committed by a social worker out of 120 children and for which only a quarter of his crimes had been prosecuted on the grounds of statute of limitations. This specificity seems all the more important to me in view of the public order nature of the statute of limitations, which obliges the judge to declare the statute of limitations ex officio, even though the word – often late in the case of victims of such crimes – has finally been freed, and has resulted in the filing of a complaint. In the case of sexual crimes against minors, which are often incestuous – in any case, 90% of the cases – the perpetrator has a very great grip on the victim. We repeated it. And his authority allows him to abuse his victim, without the victim becoming aware at the time of the facts of the criminal nature of the acts committed against her. I wanted to go back to an explanation given by Lilly Bruyère, who is the coordinator of the SOS Inceste association. She also explained that in cases of incest, it was extremely difficult for victims to report family members. The child, the teenager, is caught up in loyalty conflicts that often seem inextricable to him. Threats and blackmails on the child must also be taken into account. It follows that to talk is often to take a risk, it is to break a family and social omerta. It is therefore, in addition to the trauma, this report of authority which makes the filing of complaints extremely difficult and sometimes very late. Thus, it is not the near expiry of a statute of limitations that would motivate a victim to file a complaint, but its own physical and psychological reconstruction process, its ability to free itself from the grip of its perpetrator and its fear of reprisals. A whole journey that – it is true – can take a lot of time. Today, victims can no longer hear that this long and difficult reconstruction process has taken too long to be recognized by justice. I therefore wanted to respond to the critics of the imprescriptibility of sexual crimes against minors, point by point. And I will do so after taking care to consult at length the associations of victims who – indeed, Mr Prévot – support our text. No, the statute of limitations for these crimes is not such as to ensure social tranquillity and public order. Let us not be told that allowing pedocriminals to act with impunity for decades contributes to the social order, the majority of the aggressors of minors being multi-recidivists! Let us not be told that by institutionalizing the silence of the victims, by praying to them to remain silent because they would have had less force than others, they will end up, one day perhaps, in peace with themselves! I think that, in doing so, we are particularly at risk of their trauma getting worse where, on the contrary, social tranquillity would like to give victims the time to find the courage and strength to file a complaint. Let us not be told that law and order is ultimately tantamount to giving priority to the hypocritical calm of certain circles where abuses have been committed on the truth of the facts, no matter how devastating it is for the balance of these same circles! No, the statute of limitations on sexual crimes against minors does not limit miscarriages of justice. As I said, the minor victims of sexual crimes never talk about it the day after the events that have taken place very often over a certain period of time. They always do it months, years or decades later. However, they must do so, which is not always the case, as some of my colleagues have pointed out. In the absence of evidence such as DNA, which is otherwise only available up to 72 hours after the fact, testimony is always the first or only means of proof recognized by the courts but also by psychiatrists to attest to the veracity of these sexual crimes. Whether the complaint was filed a month or thirty years after the facts, it does not change the weight of this testimony. Testimonials are easier to obtain after 30 years, at the end of traumatic stress, which is objectivable by MRI. The rate of false accusations of sexual crimes against minors, which is quickly detectable by psychologists, is extremely low. As far as the risk of dismissal is concerned, this does of course exist, as with any crime, but there is nothing to prevent judges, as they already do, from declaring this non-trial, while at the same time showing kindness to the victims. No, the current statute of limitations for sexual crimes against minors is not long enough. A victim recently reported that it was only when her sister-in-law told her that her half-brother, who had abused her until she was twelve years old, had now attacked her nephew that she had decided to file a complaint, except that, at that time, the facts were prescribed. The current law does not allow for traumatic dissociation or refoulement, which are phenomena by which the victim flees his or her trauma to a part of the brain to literally survive the facts, which is also observed among 100 per cent of victims under six years of age. Victims often experience trauma at the age of thirty-five or forty, often when they become parents but also and especially when the facts are prescribed or are in the process of being prescribed. However, it is only at that time, when the victim finally re-appropriates her story, that she will think of filing a complaint for her attacker to be prosecuted, but also to arrest her in her criminal career. Because a victim who lodges a complaint does so both for his recognition as a victim and for his willingness to protect potential new victims, haunted by the fact that his assailant could still crack down. To this is added the ambivalence of the feelings of the victims of incest, shared between love for their brother, sister, parents, people who are supposed to protect them, and hatred for those same people who have stolen their childhood, but also in the end, their whole lives as the sequelae are and will remain deep. The many victims who have written to us and who continue to write to us to thank us for our bill, also present themselves as survivors of these sexual abuse. Yes, the imprescriptibility of sexual crimes against minors contributes to the protection of victims. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), approximately 20 per cent of women and 5 to 10 per cent of men reported sexual abuse in their childhood and 25 to 50 per cent of children reported physical abuse. WHO also notes that 70 to 80 per cent of these acts are committed by relatives. Today, only 10% of victims file complaints and of these 10%, only 1% lead to a conviction! This impunity for child criminals implies that even if a complaint cannot always lead to a conviction, it is important to be able to feed a case, to complete an investigation and possibly to avoid new victims. Given the often repeated profile of perpetrators of sexual crimes against minors, allowing the filing of complaints, even decades after the facts, will considerably increase the chances of reaching convictions of perpetrators of several victims, even if they have no common history, other than the identity of their executioner. Our State is committed on the international stage to seriously investigating all forms of rape and sexual abuse and to punishing their perpetrators. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, sexual crimes against minors are characterized by their abhorrent character but also by the long and tedious reconstruction work that victims are doing to be recognised as such, beyond the physical and psychological injuries that will have an impact on their intimate, social and professional lives, forever. I would like to take advantage of this important debate to pay tribute to their courage but also to the work of the associations that accompany them, such as SOS Inceste or Women of Law. At the same time, I would like to remind our Assembly of its responsibility to protect the victims and to combat impunity for their aggressors. It is our moral and legal responsibility to empower victims to rebuild themselves and to remove the obstacles that deprive them of this fundamental right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u84	Mr President, very briefly I would like to explain why I will abstain in the vote. The reason for my abstention is not in the hoof of the present bill, which in itself I think is a good proposal. Nor do I rely on legal hair-clubbing, such as the disappearance of witnesses or the disappearance of evidence so many years after the crime was committed. Nor do I invoke Article 6, 1 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which protects not only the rights of the victim but also the rights of the offender. Nor do I invoke Article 14 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (BUPO). I will only abstain because I believe that there is a great disproportion and discrepancy between the nature of the crimes in the present proposal and the gravity of other crimes. I have just applauded Mr Maxime Prévot of cdH, who gave a wonderful example in this area. According to the present bill, voyeurism never births, but for those who kill a minor child, even tortures in advance, but thus without sexual abuse, the crime is a birthday. On the basis of common sense, I have a very difficult time with that. If the present legislative proposal is a reason to make other legislative adjustments, then I fully support it. However, I cannot support the proposal as it stands. That is why I shall abstain in the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u85	Mr President, I would like to thank the authors and all those who contributed to the legislative proposal. I would just like to replicate Mr Dedecker, where he referred to Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights or the right to a fair trial. I am in favour of everyone, including every perpetrator, being entitled to a fair trial. We have not, without reason, endorsed and will continue to do so, for all the provisions, but victims of sexual delinquency also deserve a fair chance. In order to give the victims a fair chance, especially with the fact that many of them often do not dare to complain in good time, we want to give them that opportunity because of the inevitability. For example, the public prosecutor's office is obliged to investigate the matter and cannot and cannot hide behind it. There is indeed the problem of proof, but the best way to answer it is not to change the limitation period. The best way to respond to the problem of evidence is to encourage people, once they are victims, to file a complaint as soon as possible, knowing that government, justice and assistance are ready to receive them and to protect them from those who have been the subject of the complaint. Finally and finally, Mr President, I would like to say to this assembly and to the public that this is a procedural law. A procedural law shall enter into force immediately. All of the perpetrators whose facts are not yet time-barred must know that this law applies to them. We shall therefore be pleased to approve this proposal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u86	Mr President, I wanted to thank my colleagues for the dignity of the debate. It was so rare in this assembly that it deserved to be emphasized.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u87	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The general discussion is closed. The general discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u88	We turn to the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (439/4) We shall begin with the discussion of the articles. The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (439/4) The title was amended by the commission to "proposal for a law amending the Act of 17 April 1878 containing the preliminary title of the Code of Criminal Procedure with a view to abolishing the statute of limitations on serious sexual offences committed against minors". The title was changed by the Committee to "draft law amending the Law of 17 April 1878 on the prior title of the Code of Criminal Procedure as regards the abolition of the limitation period of serious sexual offences against minors." The bill has 3 articles. The bill has 3 articles. No amendments have been tabled. No amendments were tabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u89	The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote on the package will take place at a later date. The discussion of the articles is closed. The vote will be taken at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u90	In accordance with Article 25/1, § 1, of the Law of Principles of 12 January 2005 concerning the Prison Administration and the Legal Status of Prisoners, this Rules of Procedure must be submitted to the House of Representatives for approval. Pursuant to Article 25/1 (1) of the Basic Law of 12 January 2005 on the prison system and the legal status of the detainees, the Chamber of Representatives is required to adopt these Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u91	The discussion is open. The meeting's open. Is anyone asking for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over. The vote on the Rules of Procedure of the Central Penitentiary Supervisory Board will take place at a later date. The vote on the House's Rules of Procedure of the Central Prison Supervisory Board will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u92	The list of three candidates nominated by the Council of State for a position of French-speaking State Councillor was communicated to you during the plenary session on 10 July 2019. The list of three candidates nominated by the Council of State for a position of the French-speaking State Council was communicated to you at the plenary session of 10 July 2019. Since the presentation is not unanimous, the Chamber may, in accordance with Article 70, § 1, paragraph 8, of the Acts on the Council of State coordinated on 12 January 1973, and within a period of not more than 30 days from the receipt of the communication of that presentation, either confirm the list submitted by the Council of State or present another list of three formally reasoned names. Since the nomination is not unanimous, the Chamber may, in accordance with Article 70 (1) (8) of the Laws on the Council of State coordinated on 12 January 1973, either confirm the list proposed by the Council of State within a maximum period of 30 days from the date of receipt of the notification of the nomination, or propose a second list of three names which are expressly reasoned.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u93	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 6 November 2019, I propose that you confirm the list presented by the Council of State. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 6 November 2019, I propose to confirm the list proposed by the Council of State. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u94	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 19 September 2019, an appeal to the candidates was published in the Belgian Moniteur of 25 September 2019 for the position of Dutch-speaking judge in the Constitutional Court. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 19 September 2019, a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 25 September 2019 for the office of Dutch-speaking judge at the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u95	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 6 November 2019, I propose that you transmit the curriculum vitae of the candidates to the political groups. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 6 November 2019, I propose that the candidates' CVs be sent to the political groups. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u96	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents, I propose that the following motion for a resolution be referred to the Committee on External Relations: - the motion for a resolution (Ms Vanessa Matz) calling on the Government to support the pre-agreement between the Ministers of the Interior of Germany, France, Italy and Malta with a view to establishing a mechanism for the distribution of asylum seekers between the Member States of the European Union, No 568/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents, I propose that the following motion for a resolution be referred to the Committee on External Relations: - the proposal for a resolution (Mrs Vanessa Matz) on a request to the Government to support the preliminary agreement signed by the Ministers for the Interior of Germany, France, Italy and Malta with a view to establishing a system of distribution between the EU Member States for asylum seekers, No. 568/1. This motion for a resolution had previously been sent to the Committee on the Interior, Security, Migration and Administrative Affairs. This resolution proposal was previously sent to the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administration. At the request of the authors, I also propose that the following bill be referred to the Committee on the Interior, Security, Migration and Administrative Matters: - Bill (MM. Peter Buysrogge and Tomas Roggeman) on the opening of Laeken Castle Park to the public, No. 591/1. At the request of the proposers, I also propose that you refer the following legislative proposal to the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administrative Affairs: - draft legislation (Mr Peter Buysrogge and Mr Tomas Roggeman) opening the Laeken Castle Park, No. 591/1. This bill had previously been sent to the Commission on Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions. This bill was previously sent to the Commission for Mobility, Public Enterprises and Federal Institutions. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u97	You have taken note of the list of proposals that have been requested for consideration in the last agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I shall consider it to be taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider it accepted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u98	Mr President, I call for the urgency of the proposal for a law to protect victims of domestic violence by wearing an anti-approximation bracelet (No. 682). The debate that had taken place earlier on violence against women had led to some unanimity on the possibility of rapid action. I call for urgent consideration of this text as well as of the text on violence against women.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u99	Mr President, after today's debate, it is clear that we will support the urgency. I thank the CDH for the submission of this text. Hearings and debates will be required. We will not have to stop at this, but this is already a first step we can take without delay.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u100	Mr President, the proposal also relates to the question posed earlier today. The Minister of Justice suggested to invite Attorney General De Valkeneer, who is working on this matter. My suggestion to the author of the urgent motion is to invite the Attorney General to the Committee on Justice. We could then set up all similar proposals. At that time, we can interperate the expert on this issue and discuss how we can further develop these proposals. Mr President, that is the method I would like to propose instead of voting on the question of urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u101	Mr President, let us be honest! We're voting for urgency, that's one thing. Secondly, the committee is the head of its work and may decide to hold hearings. However, this should not become a committee, even if only for the respect due to the work of our colleagues. Therefore, I have no problem with the holding of hearings, but this should not, however, consist of a commissioning procedure. Let's be good at it!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u102	Mr President, with regard to the urgent request made by the CDH, I would like to say that Challenge will support it. Every victim is a victim of too many. Therefore, it is really time to tackle concrete and effective measures. That is why I would not like us to forget the budgetary debate that will have to accompany them. Spain has been able to seriously reduce violence against women because it has also put in place a comprehensive plan of action, including several initiatives. Therefore, if we give urgency to the text of the CDH, we should be able to give it to the other texts that are interested in this topic.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u103	If no other colleague requests the floor and, Mrs Matz, you keep your request, I propose that the House speak. We shall be voting in favour of the motion for a resolution. 682.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u104	What a beautiful unanimity again!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u105	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 116 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 21 Abstensions Total 137 Total Accordingly, the House adopts the bill. It will be submitted as a bill for Royal Assent. (439/5) Consequently, the Chamber adopts the bill. It will be submitted to the King for ratification as a draft law. (439/5) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]] Mr Jan Briers voted in favour.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u106	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u107	Yes 136 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 136 Total Accordingly, the Chamber adopted the draft Rules of Procedure. Consequently, the Chamber adopts the draft Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-07-55-plenair-ip012x.u108	We must approve the agenda for the next sitting. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for the next sitting. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, November 14, 2019 at 2:15 p.m. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 14 November 2019 at 2.15 p.m.
