ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1033x.u1	Mr President, Minister, on 10 January, a warning published on the Russian social network VKontakte called on LGBTQI people to flee Chechnya. The following Monday, the president of the Russian LGBT Network, Igor Kochetkov, said that a new wave of arrests had affected men and women on the grounds of their alleged or actual sexual orientation. According to him, the Chechen authorities confiscated the identity papers of the persons concerned in order to prevent them from leaving the territory. We're talking about two deaths as a result of torture and almost forty arrests. At the end of December, the OSCE published a report denouncing a regime of impunity in Chechnya, where very serious human rights violations are committed against LGBT people. Already last August, fifteen OSCE member states – Belgium was not part of it – urged Russia to explain the "homophobic purges" that regularly took place in Chechnya. The latter would have shown a clear lack of political will. As my group has already initiated a resolution on these terrible facts, which was adopted by this House, I would like to ask you a few questions, Mr Minister. Through our diplomatic network, do you have any additional information on these very serious and unacceptable potential facts? What steps have been taken by your services at the bilateral and multilateral levels to get an independent investigation into these violations of LGBTQI rights in the Russian Federation and, more specifically, Chechnya? What initiatives do you intend to take, particularly at the Council of Europe level, to ensure respect for the rights of LGBTQI people in Chechnya and, more broadly, in the Russian Federation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1033x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the deterioration of human rights in the Russian Federation and the Chechen Republic, including the increasing discrimination against LGBTQI people, is, as you know, a major concern of Belgium. This issue is closely followed by our posts in Moscow and St. Petersburg, as well as by my services in Brussels. Follow-up contacts have been established with Russian civil society, including several organisations that fight against discrimination against LGBTQI people. Our support is also manifested through concrete actions, such as the participation of our services in events organized on the occasion of the International Day against Homophobia and Transphobia. I have had the opportunity to raise human rights concerns in Russia on a number of occasions, particularly in Chechnya, including LGBTQI rights, during my discussions with my Russian counterpart, and I will continue to do so. In view of the numerous reports of human rights violations in the Chechen Republic, we are also consulting with other countries, including our partners in the European Union, to see what international instruments we can use within the framework of the United Nations, the Council of Europe or the OSCE to ensure that the Russian Federation implements its international human rights obligations throughout its territory, including in the North Caucasus. As part of its external policy, the European Union and its Member States implement the guidelines to promote and ensure respect for all the fundamental rights of LGBTQI people. Within the OSCE, a number of initiatives have been undertaken to this end. Thus, the situation of human rights violations in Chechnya was regularly raised, and the OSCE Vienna Mechanism was activated at the Permanent Council on 30 August 2018. In view of the lack of follow-up to the procedures of the Vienna Mechanism, a group of sixteen countries, including Belgium at its request, decided to launch the Moscow Mechanism at the OSCE Permanent Council on 1 November 2018. An expert mission has been appointed to investigate and make recommendations on human rights violations and abuses in Chechnya. The OSCE rapporteur, Wolfgang Benedek, published his report at the end of December. It is available on the OSCE website. Belgium endorsed the joint statement made by the Permanent Representative of France to the OSCE on behalf of the 16 participating States. Through this declaration, Belgium and its partners take note of the publication of the report and express their concern at the confirmation of allegations of violations and serious violations of human rights in Chechnya. The Declaration stresses that this report is an important contribution to the continuation of dialogue and initiatives to ensure that the Russian Federation fulfils and defends the OSCE commitments. The subject remains on the OSCE agenda. Currently, a number of follow-up actions to the Benedek report are being considered. My services are actively following these developments. A statement by the Delegation of the European Union was delivered at the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe on 30 January. Belgium participated in its elaboration. The European Union and its Member States have reiterated their great concern following recent reports of new cases of arrest, torture and murder of Chechens because of their sexual orientation. It calls on Russia to conduct an independent investigation promptly so that the perpetrators of such acts are truly tried. The European Union urges Russia to comply with its obligations as a member of the Council of Europe, in particular with regard to Articles 2, 3, 5 and 14 of the European Convention on Human Rights. Belgium is also active in the Equal Rights Coalition, which published on 23 January, as it had already done in 2017, a statement on the current situation in Chechnya. It once again urges the Russian authorities to take urgent steps to respond to this wave of violations of the rights of LGBTQI people in Chechnya. It calls for the immediate release of any person detained because of his sexual orientation or gender identity and calls for an impartial, thorough and prompt investigation of the persecutions carried out in order to hold those who have ordered and committed these acts accountable. Finally, it reminds Russia of its obligation to ensure equal treatment and protection of its LGBTQI citizens. The fight against discrimination based on sexual orientation remains a priority of our human rights policy. Belgium supports in particular the work of Mr. Victor Madrigal-Borloz, the United Nations independent expert on sexual orientation and gender identity. It organises a monitoring of the implementation of the international instruments in force. We also participate in the International Day Against Homophobia and Transphobia (IDAHOT).
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1033x.u3	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. Belgium is one of the most progressive countries in defending the rights of LGBTQI people. As such, we can serve as a model of living together. To do this, our voice must not be limited to supporting the voice of the OSCE member states that condemn violence, but must aim to bring this ambition higher. This includes strong initiatives within the Council of Europe, the United Nations and the OSCE. Moreover, as you pointed out, this means following closely the assessment measures that Russia will take, with a view, hopefully, to making progress in defending the rights of LGBTQI people.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1033x.u4	Mr President, Minister, my question is from last December. I assume you have up-to-date information. Russia had just seized three Ukrainian naval ships in the Kerch Strait, which marked access to the Azov Sea. The Russian navy had fired, wounding some crew members. The situation had worsened with the Russian blockade of the two Ukrainian ports of Berdiansk and Mariupol on the Azov Sea. Only Russian ships travelling to the ports of the Azov Sea were allowed to cross the Kerch Strait. In total, no fewer than 35 vessels had been blocked, including European vessels that could not access Ukrainian ports. In the face of this Russian aggression and the significant increase in the Russian military presence on the border (more than 80,000 Russian soldiers present, mainly located along the Russian border with Crimea as well as in the Donetsk and Lugansk regions), the Ukrainian President had referred to the threat of a total war and called for a united response from the Western world. For its part, the international community was struggling to react together and failed to condemn this aggression in a firm and unequivocal manner. Russia's justification that Ukrainian vessels were sailing in Russian territorial waters is contrary to the agreement that access to these waters is managed jointly. Minister, what is your assessment of the situation now around the Azov Sea, particularly in the Kerch Strait? NATO has met for this purpose. What is his position? Our Ambassador attended this meeting. What came out of it? How does the European Union react in general? What is Belgium's attitude towards what, in international law, seems completely illegitimate and which can be described as aggression?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1033x.u5	Mr President, Mr Dallemagne, the answer that has been prepared is bilingual, as five questions have been put together on this subject. I would therefore like to thank you for being here. Twenty percent of the questioning parliamentarians are present; that's good, right? The incident in the Kerch Strait on 25 November, in which Russia shot and seized Ukrainian ships, captured their crew members and closed the Kerch Strait, is a serious violation of international law. Russia did not shy away from the use of force, resulting in a dangerous increase in tensions in and around the Azov Sea. Both the European Union and NATO have condemned Russian action in separate declarations. The EU and NATO called on Russia to release the captured Ukrainian sailors, to release the ships and to guarantee the free passage in the Strait of Kerch. It also recalled the determined support for Ukrainian territorial integrity. Finally, there was a call for restraint and de-escalation. Belgium fully supports these statements. The situation in the Azov Sea was discussed at the NATO Foreign Ministers' meeting on 4 December, at the Foreign Affairs Council on 10 December and at the European Council on 13 December. At the Foreign Affairs Council in December, the European Union discussed the increase in economic aid to the regions of Ukraine affected by Russian actions in the Azov Sea, a principle which Belgium fully supports. At my meeting in Ukraine with my colleague Pavlo Klimkin on 8 February, I recalled Belgium's commitment to the territorial integrity and sovereignty of Ukraine, including its territorial waters. I welcomed the resolute and united action of the European Union, condemning the use of force by Russia, called for respect for international law, de-escalation and unconditional release of the 24 Ukrainian sailors imprisoned in Russia. I also indicated that Belgium was open to the implementation of targeted sanctions against Russians involved in the incident of 25 November, in and around the Kerch Strait. We also actively support the European Union's efforts in Moscow to demand the release of the 24 Ukrainian sailors still imprisoned in Russia.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1033x.u6	With regard to the agenda for internal reforms in Ukraine, I have confirmed Belgium's support for a non-paper to be presented to the Foreign Affairs Council on 18 February and which calls on the Ukrainian authorities to continue to implement ambitious reforms in order to keep the country on the path of rapprochement with Europe. The incident in the Azov Sea fits in with a picture of deteriorating relations between Ukraine and Russia following the illegal annexation of Crimea by Russia and Russian interference in the Donbass. What exactly drives Russia behind these most recent escalations is hard to estimate. The result was that the tension between the two countries was dangerous. Especially from Ukraine's point of view, the situation is very delicate, both from an internal political and economic point of view and from a security point of view. As already mentioned, it was important to avoid further escalation in the region. Although the risk has not completely disappeared and the underlying causes of the tensions have not disappeared, in particular increasing militarisation in the Azov Sea, there has been no further escalation. The traffic through the Strait of Kerch also seems to be smoother. The incident is an illustration of the very complex security environment that we are facing in Europe. It is due, among other things, to a very assertive Russian military stance over the past few years, which is reflected in large-scale unannounced Russian military exercises near the NATO border, maritime movements in the North Atlantic Ocean, the Baltic Sea or the Mediterranean Sea or still testing the preparedness of enhanced air defence. The incident with the Belgian Navy ship Godetia during the participation in a NATO exercise in November 2018 must be seen in that light. It is also a problem that the existing European security architecture, particularly within the OSCE, is increasingly being compromised and that this makes the necessary dialogue with Russia more difficult. It is important to avoid escalation in these circumstances, but at the same time we must act together, both within the EU and NATO. A firm signal to Russia that military action, as recently in the Azov Sea, is unacceptable, is certainly on the table. As far as relations between NATO and Ukraine are concerned, there has been intense cooperation for years, but especially since 2009. NATO supports it in particular in the area of defence and security sector reform, as well as capacity-building. Cooperation with Ukraine has intensified, in response to Russia's illegal annexation of Crimea and interference in Donbass. Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko was also received by European Council President Donald Tusk and NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg. We continue to monitor the situation very closely. More generally, with regard to sanctions against Russia, Belgium fully subscribes to the regime adopted by the European Union. I would point out that the European Council of 13 December endorsed the extension of economic sanctions against Russia and that sanctions were also tightened several times in 2018. This was the case in connection with the holding of the Russian presidential elections in Crimea, the construction by Russia of the bridge over the Kerch Strait and the holding of illegitimate elections in the self-proclaimed republics of Donetsk and Lugansk.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1033x.u7	Minister, thank you for your detailed answer. I am obviously pleased to hear the firmness that you indicate with regard to Russia's behaviour, which is completely unacceptable. You are right to put this in a more general context of increasing threats and tensions. Russia today has an unqualified attitude towards Ukraine, a country it constantly attacks. But it is clear that it is not the only country that is facing Russian threats. This is happening in a context of very important tensions. I believe, unfortunately, that these threats must be taken very seriously and that they must be as firm as possible, while avoiding escalation. It is this famous Harmel doctrine of dialogue and firmness that must be applied. The continued detention of these 24 sailors is obviously unacceptable. These sailors have not committed any law violations or breaches under the Convention signed by Ukraine and Russia on water management, particularly in the Kerch Strait.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1033x.u8	Minister, this is a bit of a question. So we may have some more up-to-date information in the answers you're going to give. On Sunday, 9 December, early parliamentary elections were held in Armenia. At the end of a vote which, according to the OSCE, took place without irregularity, the party of the outgoing Prime Minister, Nikol Pachinian, largely finished in the lead by winning more than 70% of the vote. Conversely, the Republican Party of Armenia of former President Serge Sarkissian won less than 5% of the vote. During the "velvet revolution", Mr. Pachinian promised to make several reforms, including the fight against corruption in his country or the development of democracy. It also promises to further seal the strategic alliance with Russia and at the same time strengthen cooperation with the United States and the European Union. Minister, what impact will this radical change in the Armenian political landscape have on our bilateral diplomatic relations and within Europe with this country?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1033x.u9	Henry, following the victory of his party in the early parliamentary elections of December 9, 2018, with 70.4% of the vote, Nikol Pachinian was elected Prime Minister by the new Parliament on January 14, 2019. Since then, he has formed a new government. Upon his accession to the post of Prime Minister, Mr. Pachinian announced that his priorities were the fight against corruption, the restoration of legal certainty and economic liberalization in order to ensure internal stability. We had the opportunity to discuss the situation in Armenia in the context of the ratification of an agreement with the European Union. During a meeting on 4 December 2018 with my Armenian counterpart in Brussels, I confirmed Belgium's support for such reforms. I will have the opportunity to meet him again at the end of the week at the Munich Conference. On the European Union side, work is under way to ratify the Association Agreement. On the Armenian side, nothing seems to have changed in substance, but, as mentioned earlier, it is clear that the establishment of frameworks for political discussion and consultation with Armenia by the European Union is a very positive development that will strengthen cooperation and collaboration, as well as, where appropriate, raise concerns with the Armenian authorities. We will continue to work in this direction. I thank your committee for approving the ratification of the text between the European Union and Armenia.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1033x.u10	Minister, thank you for your answer. This government was formed on 14 January. It would be interesting to see how that government and Mr. Pachinian would keep their promises. If that is the case, it will be an encouraging step forward in this part of the world, especially for a member country of the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1033x.u11	Mr President, as my question of February 5 brings up to date the oldest, I will ask only this one. Minister, on December 19, President Trump announced on Twitter the immediate withdrawal of US troops to Syria. This brutal decision led to heated controversy across the Atlantic, including the resignation of Pentagon leader James Mattis. If this decision seems to be still being debated today, it will certainly have disastrous consequences. Such a withdrawal is both a moral error and a huge strategic mistake. It is a moral mistake towards loyal allies, the Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF), in the fight against Daesh. Without them, it is very likely that the Islamic State would still be there and that it would continue to threaten the world – among other things, our country. It is also a major strategic mistake, with northern Syria being anything but stabilized. At least three concurrent threats weigh on what the Kurds call Rojava: the threat of invasion by Turkey, which is a pretext for security problems, yet absolutely devoid of any reality; the continued threat posed by cells of Daesh, al-Qaeda and al-Nusra, some of which are even reportedly secretly supported by Turkey; the threat posed by the regime of Bashar al-Assad – and Iran – to this part of Syria. The American withdrawal and Europe's lack of existence enshrine Russia's supremacy as the master of the game. It is known that the latter played the worst role in the permanence and cruelty of the Syrian conflict, to the benefit of the regime and its Iranian allies. The withdrawal of the Americans to the north may well be at the root of a new conflict of extreme violence. The Kurds warned that they would not be allowed to do so – and we can understand that. Minister, these are my questions. What is the status of discussions on the US withdrawal? What initiatives have been taken by the European Union, Belgium and NATO to try to deter it? What is the European Union's attitude on this issue? Is there no chance of seeing a European defence initiative to remedy the departure of the Americans? What is your analysis of the situation when the US, French, British and German troops are gone? What support will the Kurds receive? At the very least, the SDS calls for the establishment of a no fly zone in northern Syria. Is that feasible? What initiatives are we taking, among other things within NATO, to deter Turkey from continuing its invasion of northern Syria, thereby committing an illegal act of war contrary to the NATO Treaty and the Charter of the United Nations? What political initiatives are under way to avoid new bloodbaths in Syria and finally lead to a calming and political transition?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1033x.u12	Mr Dallemagne, some of your colleagues who have asked questions on the same subject, you will again be entitled to a bilingual answer. President Trump's announcement of the rapid withdrawal of US troops from Syria has surprised the international community and its coalition partners against Daesh. Also in the US government and administration there was clear disagreement about the decision. The resignation of the Minister of Defence and the Special Envoy for the Coalition is a clear example of this. My services, like those of the other allies, were contacted soon after the announcement to indicate the decision. Minister Pompeo and the NSA Bolton also travelled to the region to reassure the allies and partners there and the withdrawal was linked to a number of conditions, namely: the definitive and complete defeat of Daesh and the protection of the Kurds. However, the circumstances and the exact timing of the withdrawal remain unclear. The preparation of a possible Turkish military operation in the Kurdish part of Syria raises concerns among allies. I share this concern, because the operation could destabilise the region more. The US has already made it clear that the security of the Kurdish people must not be compromised. Belgium and the other members of the coalition against Daesh are in constant consultation with each other. In this context, we will continue to repeat the message that the fight against Daesh is not over and that we must continue our efforts. The threat of Daesh returning or a similar violent extremist or terrorist movement is still present. In addition to the military agenda, the coalition must also focus on its civilian tasks, namely the political, material and social stabilisation of the areas recaptured at Daesh in Iraq and Syria. The US has played a special role in Northeast Syria in supporting the military struggle against Daesh. The US and other partners, both individual countries and the EU and other international organisations, should help to stabilise those areas in the north-east in a sustainable way, so that no power vacuum is created. At the request of the global coalition against Daesh, of which Belgium is an active member, the Syrian Democratic Forces, with the support of coalition forces, released almost the entire north-eastern region of Syria from the yoke of the self-proclaimed Islamic State. Belgium is particularly grateful for this effort, the result of which has had a direct impact on our national security because of the role of foreign terror fighters in the area. Belgium has also supported the military effort of the coalition and the Syrian Democratic Forces, notably through the operational engagement of F-16 bomber fighters in the Air component. It is a priority to avoid the resurgence of Daesh in the Levant while protecting the successes achieved by the coalition and its local partners. Stabilization is not primarily a military exercise. The priority is to ensure acceptable living conditions, by supporting the management of the territory by local authorities and, above all, by responding to humanitarian needs, through the re-establishment of basic services (water and electricity supply, infrastructure redevelopment, education). There is no alternative to the international community, and in particular the coalition member States, assuming their responsibilities in this regard. A joint mobilisation is carried out in particular within the working group Stabilisation of the coalition in which Belgium participates. Recently, active reflection has begun on the possibility of a more focused approach to the north-east region which, at this stage, receives relatively less international aid, within the competent Belgian authorities, both international cooperation and foreign affairs. These humanitarian stabilization activities are not in contradiction with the European Union's position not to grant reconstruction assistance to the Syrian Arab Republic of Bashar al-Assad as long as there is no lasting political transition on its way to Syria as a whole. In this context, Belgium continues to support the efforts of the United Nations Special Envoy, Mr. Geir O. Pedersen, who is working in particular to finalize the composition of the Constitutional Committee and to adopt its rules of operation. In recent years, the European Union has played an important humanitarian role in the conflict in Syria, as the largest donor to the affected Syrian population. This year, for the third time, the EU will organise a major conference on Syria in Brussels, where, in addition to the humanitarian aspects, the need for further steps in the political process will be underlined. In addition to the humanitarian and political process, Belgium will also pay particular attention to the fight against impunity and the role of Syrian civil society in the material and political reconstruction of the country. In the current mandate, a Belgian military presence in northeast Syria is excluded. Belgium, together with the other coalition allies, is now investigating how cooperation with local partners in northeast Syria can continue with a view to stabilisation. An EU operation is therefore not on the agenda until further notice. Any EU or CSDP alternative or other new international initiative will in any case have to comply with the international legal order and an international mandate. In the framework of NATO, NATO Training Mission Iraq started in November 2018. This is a non-combat mission aimed at helping develop Iraqi defence capabilities. In the long term, the mission should have 500 staff, supported by mobile training teams. The training mission in Iraq depends on the coalition against Daesh for logistical support. The withdrawal of American troops from Syria will in principle have no direct effect on the military campaign in Iraq and on the Belgian participation in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1033x.u13	Minister, thank you for your answer. I remain extremely concerned about what could happen in the coming weeks. The Americans seem to say that they will leave as early as April. The immense moral paradox is that we are moving away from the Syrian democratic forces, in which both Arabs and Kurds are in the process of completing the work against Daesh. Even today, they protect themselves, but they also protect our societies. You told them your gratitude. They're losing men and women there and we're gonna let them go. There are no other words. They have to face three concurrent threats: Turkey, of which you have not spoken, about which I asked you, and which is gathering troops at the border, and Bashar al-Assad, who wants to regain control of its territories, including by force. The people living in northern Syria have not forgotten that it was Bashar al-Assad who released a series of Islamist prisoners, and that it was these people who sowed terror in their cities. The third threat is that of Daesh, which is not completely finished. As we have seen, Daesh's principal officials are at large and could not be intercepted. The threat continues. I deeply regret this abandonment, which for me is a serious mistake for Europe. Of course, the Americans can be blamed for leaving, but this is a threat to our own security. It's at the borders of Europe. Above all, we must note that we are unable to ensure our own security on the margins of Europe, and to be reliable allies for fighters who have helped us particularly in this region. This question should not be evacuated. You also did not answer about the no fly zone. I hope that we will have the opportunity to ensure that, in one way or another, the Kurds and Sunni Arabs who are trying to protect themselves from these various threats benefit from our cooperation and support. On the issue of reconstruction, as you may know, Mrs Leila Mustafa, Mayor of Raqqa, was received informally in Parliament. She's asking for reconstruction assistance. You said that humanitarian aid was insufficient in northern Syria. We would be wrong to leave third countries with very precise agendas, such as Saudi Arabia and Iran, to be the only operators of the reconstruction of large cities. Our Minister of Cooperation will be in Mosul in the coming days. It's an important trip. We should do the same for Raqqa and other major cities that have suffered significant damage. The people are ready to try to relive together and get rid of Daesh. But they could find it very difficult to rebuild themselves if they were abandoned. For the time being, there is humanitarian assistance from the United Nations. I continue to plead for specific European aid. It is important that Europe is present there. This is an important political signal that we must give. Through the assistance of the United Nations, we know that the main donors are countries that do not necessarily have our agenda. Humanitarian aid must include assistance for the reconstruction of basic services. It's essential. For the moment, these are endowments in the form of food parcels. People no longer need this, but they need to rebuild water, energy, sanitation, schools, etc. It is in these areas that we must give priority to organising our aid. I plead that we don't waste any more time. This essential support must be provided, not only through the Syrian democratic forces that have helped us, but because it responds to important security challenges for Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1033x.u14	Mr. Chair, Minister, I will ignore the current political situation – which may have an impact on the response you are going to give – and try to focus on my fears about national parks. Recently, the Democratic Republic of the Congo has hypothesized implementing an oil project in two of its natural parks, Virunga and Salonga. If this possible but regrettable area of oil interest were to emerge, it would cover an area of 172,000 hectares in the Virunga Park alone, representing 21% of the total area of the park, which is classified as a UNESCO World Heritage Site. In this regard, the NGO Global Witness and several local environmental organisations have called for a halt to this project by denouncing "the catastrophic consequences for the environment". According to them, the Salonga Park is home to nearly 40% of the world's bonobos population, while the Virunga Park is a vital habitat for many protected species such as hippopotamus, elephants and some of the last gorillas in the mountains in the world. Minister, could you please tell me whether our country has had diplomatic contacts with the Congolese authorities on this matter? Is it monitored at European level, in particular in terms of compliance with social and environmental standards by European companies in such a context?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1033x.u15	Mr President, Mr Henry, the issue of the decommissioning of certain protected areas in the Virunga and Salonga parks is a matter of concern. Our position is closely following the situation. At this stage, a decision of the Council of Ministers of the DRC of 8 June 2018 (confirmed on 14 July 2018) concerns the establishment of two inter-ministerial committees to begin a reflection on the oil issue and protected areas, in order to prepare a dossier for the Council of Ministers. If we cannot prejudge the decisions that will be taken, Belgium is part of a very firm joint response by the European Union. Oil exploitation and exploration are not compatible with the UNESCO World Heritage Status. Although UNESCO has not responded formally, the World Heritage Committee has always been clear that oil and mining exploration and exploitation is incompatible with the status of a natural site on the World Heritage List. Donors are following the issue very closely. The Belgian facilitation 2018-2019 of the Congo Basin Forest Partnership (CBFP), which is part of a commitment of the countries of the subregion to work within a regional framework of enhanced cooperation, encourages dialogue. This was particularly the case at the eighteenth meeting of the parties held in Brussels last November. It is in this context that the Belgian facilitator of the CBFP, Minister of State François-Xavier de Donnea, mobilizes the political representatives of the countries of the subregion as well as their international partners. The European Union, for its part, continues to support the parks and biodiversity of which they are abundant. A joint letter from the European Union, Switzerland, the United States and Canada was sent to the Congolese Minister of the Environment in June 2018, recalling their concern about this plan to decommission classified areas and the incompatibility with its UNESCO status as a natural world heritage. Belgium marks its continuing commitment to the protection and defence of this heritage alongside the European Union, as we recalled in a joint communiqué with my colleague in charge of cooperation last June. We now look forward to seeing what the new government, which is still to be formed after the last elections, will do. It is announced to us by mid-March, but we continue to be very active in these matters. This morning, I signed an agreement to grant two million euros to UNODC (the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime) for the preservation of the wild natural heritage. It is also an important element. We will continue to work with the various actors in this area. The Belgian facilitator was present this morning.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1033x.u16	Minister, thank you for these answers. Indeed, in the climate context we are experiencing today and beyond the consequences of the new government's policy following the elections, we must remain very vigilant on this issue. This project of oil exploitation in a protected area would not only be a major environmental disaster, but also a tragedy for local people who derive most of their livelihoods from these protected areas.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1033x.u17	Minister, people around the world are regularly abused by businesses against their fundamental rights. The trend is worsening. International regulation has so far proved insufficient to prevent and remedy violations. A recent study conducted by the Belgian HIVA Institute, comparing human rights initiatives in France, Germany, the Netherlands and Belgium, points out that our country proposes only a fragmented institutional framework, voluntary initiatives, without showing any significant effort to strengthen a structural and comprehensive vision to act accordingly. The ongoing negotiation of the treaty on business and human rights, initiated by the UN Human Rights Council, represents a real opportunity. This treaty aims to establish the primacy of human rights over the economic interests and the rights of investors. It aims at the introduction of a mandatory duty of corporate vigilance and legal liability in cases of abuse, as well as the guarantee of access to justice for victims. It covers the territorial and extraterritorial obligations of enterprises. A first version of the text – a zero draft – is available and Belgium has the option of submitting a written opinion by the end of February. It can also argue in the same way at European level. On 16 January, the meeting of the Human Rights Group on human rights aspects in the framework of the European Union's external relations (COHOM) addressed the question of whether the European Union would submit a written contribution in response to the zero draft of the Treaty. According to our latest information, this was not inconceivable, which does not prevent Belgium from doing so as well. Mr Minister, what position will be taken by Belgium at the COHOM meeting on 16 January? Has it supported a European written contribution initiative? Does it also intend, like other Member States, to submit a national written contribution, whatever the final decision of the European Union on this matter?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1033x.u18	Minister, the United Nations is holding a major debate on the binding treaty on human rights for companies. In our country, too, various groups lobby heavily to get support for the binding treaty. Of course, companies must respect human rights. No one's against that. Of course, there must be instruments to control companies. It is important that all actors respect human rights wherever they are. Where are the negotiations on this matter? Is there a timetable set when the Convention could be discussed at the United Nations General Assembly? What is the European Union's position on the binding treaty? What assessment does our permanent representative to the United Nations make of the consequences of the Convention, including for our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1033x.u19	On 19 July 2018, Ecuador, Chairman of the Working Group, circulated a first draft text of the Convention entitled "Legal Binding Instrument to Regulate in International Human Rights Law the Activities of Transnational Corporations and Other Business Enterprises'. On 4 September Ecuador distributed an additional protocol to the draft treaty texts entitled "Draft Optional Protocol to the Legally Binding Instrument to Regulate in International Human Rights Law the Activities of Transnational Corporations and Other Business Enterprises." The draft Convention was first discussed article by article during the fourth negotiation session of the Intergovernmental Working Group on Transnational Enterprises and Other Business and Human Rights, which took place in Geneva from 15 to 19 October 2018. The fourth session report stated that states can comment on the text of the zero draft until the end of February 2019. The rapporteur-president will then draw up a revised draft, which will be distributed by the end of June 2019 for further discussion. A fifth working group session is scheduled from 14 to 18 October 2019. In the meantime, Ecuador will organise a number of informal consultations with governments, intergovernmental organisations, civil society and UN mechanisms to be defined. The European Union remains undecided about the attitude to be adopted. Both within the institutions and among the Member States, there are different views on a European Union commitment to the negotiation process. Belgium, for its part, has for some time been calling for constructive participation by the European Union in the discussions of the Intergovernmental Working Group. This led to effective participation by the European Union at the last session of the Working Group in October 2018. The subject of the binding treaty was not finally discussed at the working group on 16 January 2019 and was postponed to a later date. At the meeting of the working group on 30 January 2019, some Member States, including Belgium, raised the issue and asked the European Union to take a coordinated and united position quickly. If the European Union decides to participate in the negotiation process through a written contribution, Belgium will support and contribute to this initiative. If the European Union decides not to submit a written contribution, Belgium will reassess its position. The impact of the Convention on our country can only be properly assessed after a legal analysis of it. For this reason, our country, together with other EU Member States, has repeatedly called for the EU to carry out a legal analysis of the text. The text is also being analysed at national level. This process involves the competent federal services as well as the federated entities. We will continue the analysis until the next meeting in October, when we will formulate our position on the draft text.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1033x.u20	Minister, thank you for this information. I am pleased that you have encouraged the European Union to provide support, through written input, and to aim for a coordinated position. I am less reassured because I have not heard that you will, in all cases and in a determined manner, give a written opinion on this text. I heard, however, that you were going to reassess your position. It's already an asset. This Treaty is a necessary instrument to restore a balance between the actors of society. Today, companies carrying out transnational activities enjoy broad protection to secure commercial interests and their investments through trade and investment protection treaties. Belgium even claims to create a short international business and to devote public resources to it at the expense of justice for all its citizens. On the other hand, there is no similar binding protection at international or national level for human rights, aimed at protecting people affected by transnational business activities. We therefore encourage you to move resolutely in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1033x.u21	Minister, our group has always stressed the importance of the role of the private sector in international cooperation. At the same time, we also stress the importance of a good framework within which the private sector can play its role in international cooperation. We often disagree about this role of the private sector with NGOs and their political supporters. We find it striking that NGOs often point to the need for binding treaties, especially when it comes to companies, but often hold off when it comes to their own responsibility. For example, we read that there is a serious problem with the culture in the workplace of a human rights giant such as Amnesty International. We see reports of abuse of power and sexual abuse within NGOs. We are wondering whether it would be better to make a binding convention on civil society and human rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1033x.u22	Minister, in mid-October, several laws were passed in the Kosovo Parliament establishing Kosovar security forces to serve as a full army. These proposals were endorsed by the plenary. 3 000 people would have been recruited for this purpose and would have to form a strong army. The Serbian Government reacted very strongly to this. Serbian-Kosovar MPs did not even take part in the vote. Was this step forwarded by Kosovo to the NATO mission KFOR, which is responsible for training and supervision of the Kosovar security force? What is the position of our country, the EU and NATO on the laws? What is the assessment of the competent diplomatic post on security risks in the region following the establishment of the Kosovar army? How can NATO help to reduce the risks?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1033x.u23	Mrs Bellens, we do not know whether the NATO mission Kosovo Force (KFOR) was approached by the local authorities at military level. However, NATO headquarters and Member States were well aware of the Kosovar Government's plans. On 6 December 2018, the Secretary-General of NATO, Jens Stoltenberg, the Kosovar Prime Minister, Ramush Haradinaj, called and reiterated NATO's positions. During that discussion, he underlined that the time for the transformation of the Kosovar security force into a Kosovon army was particularly unfortunate, went against the advice of many NATO members and could have negative repercussions on Kosovo's prospects for Euro-Atlantic integration. Mr Haradinaj's decision is primarily a political decision. Belgium's position is in line with NATO's position. Although we recognise Kosovo's sovereign right to have armed forces, we deplore the timing and manner in which this has been done. We also fully subscribe to the statement by the spokesman for the European diplomatic service, who stressed that the European Union, like NATO, remains of the opinion that the mandate of the Kosovo Security Forces can only be changed through an inclusive and gradual process in accordance with the Constitution of Kosovo. We take note of the adoption of the three laws amending the mandate of the Kosovar security forces, even though it is noted that the absence of a constitutional change still does not give them the name of armed forces. The Kosovar government has promised to continue working with KFOR. Their presence in Kosovo can be seen as a guarantee of stability and security in Kosovo.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1033x.u24	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I also understood that NATO had said that a constitutional change was needed for an official Kosovo army. In any case, a step has been taken which does not benefit the region. I have often asked questions about this region, and every time it appears that a number of countries are taking initiatives which threaten to jeopardise the peace that exists. It's a very explosive region. I believe that our country, together with NATO, must make every effort to maintain peace in that region. Thank you for the update.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1033x.u25	Mr President, Minister, Russia and the United States accuse each other of violating different parts of the INF Convention over and over the last few months. In particular, the development of medium-range missiles by Russia and the ground-based production of the essentially maritime Aegis missiles by the United States raises the dissatisfaction of the other camp. At the beginning of December, the other NATO countries supported the United States in the view that Russia is damaging the INF Treaty. The US and President Trump no longer see the usefulness of the INF Convention and are threatening to withdraw from it. On 4 December, the US gave Russia an ultimatum of 60 days to comply with the treaty. Otherwise, the US will suspend its obligations under the treaty. Firstly, what were the motivations of the other NATO countries to join the US on the bilateral treaty between Russia and the US? In addition to pointing the finger at Russia, were there any concerns about the Aagis Ashore project in Romania? Secondly, how can our presence in the UN Security Council contribute to the demining of this situation? Are there initiatives in this direction, and what then? Thirdly, what are the consequences for European security of any non-compliance with the US ultimatum with Russia and the subsequent US suspension of its obligations under the Convention?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1033x.u26	Mr Minister, at the NATO-Russia Council held on 25 January, the 29 allies and Russia discussed, among other things, the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Weapons Treaty (INF Treaty) in Europe. The conclusion of NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg was without appeal: "The allies and Russia do not agree at all on this issue". Indeed, the United States, with the support of all allies, considers that Russia is violating the treaty, notably by manufacturing new SSC-8 or Novator 9M729 cruise missiles. As a reminder, the treaty aims to eliminate nuclear and conventional missiles with a range of 500 to 5,500 km. However, NATO and the United States argue that these new Russian missiles have a range of 1,500 km, so they can reach a European country in a matter of minutes. In the absence of a constructive reaction from Moscow, Mike Pompeo, Secretary of State, announced Friday, February 1st, the withdrawal of the United States Treaty within six months. The United States announced that it would proceed with the modernization of its tactical nuclear arsenal. For the first time in twenty years, a new nuclear weapon is being developed outside the Atlantic. This is the W76-2, whose prototype, in full assembly, should be tested on US Navy Trident missiles on board submarines. President Putin, for his part, broke all hope of agreement by announcing on Saturday, 2 February, that his country was suspending its participation in the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty. The end of the INF Treaty and the return of nuclear proliferation are obviously very serious threats to the security of the world, and Europe in particular. Minister, what is your analysis of the situation with regard to this FNI Treaty and in particular the impact on the security of the European continent? What has been and can be the role of Europeans in trying to preserve it? Do the discussions continue between the various parties to avoid nuclear proliferation with disastrous consequences?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1033x.u27	Chairperson: Rita Bellens.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1033x.u28	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with the introductory remarks made by my two colleagues. For the sake of time, I'll start my nine questions right away. Firstly, can the Minister confirm whether or not the US had aligned the deadline of 1 February 2019 for Russia, concerning compliance with the INF Convention, with all NATO Member States, including Belgium? Secondly, does Belgium support the decision of the US to withdraw from the INF Convention? If so, why? If not, why not? Thirdly, was Belgium consulted when drawing up the NATO statement of 1 February 2019? What was the position that Belgium defended within NATO? Does the Minister fully agree with the content of the above statement? Fourthly, what steps can be taken to save the INF Convention now that there are six months left before it is completely lifted? What initiative is NATO taking to this end? Does Belgium mean anything? Fifthly, what steps are already being taken by NATO and Belgium to persuade Russia to comply with the INF Convention over the next six months? Sixthly, how does the Minister see the consequences for military relations, security architecture and strategic stability in Europe when the INF Treaty is finally lifted? Seventh, can the Minister specifically indicate the range of the new Russian cruise missiles that are violating INF? Will the protection of Belgian territory be compromised? Why is that, or why not? Eighthly, has the Minister already informed the US that Belgium does not want medium-range American missiles on its own or European soil? If not, why hasn't this happened? Finally, what steps will the Minister take to prevent a renewed arms race? What initiatives will Belgium take in this respect?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1033x.u29	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, for 30 years the Treaty on Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces has eliminated all nuclear and conventional missiles with a range of 500 to 5,500 kilometres launched from the ground. Since 2014, the United States has reported that Russia is violating the treaty and regularly consulting NATO allies on this issue. At a summit in mid 2018, NATO Heads of State or Government called on Russia to provide the necessary clarification on the development of the new Russian missile system 9M729, which has been a long-standing concern. However, this appeal remained unanswered, after which the foreign ministers of the alliance concluded on 4 December that Russia did not comply with the INF Convention. The US gave Russia two months to re-establish itself. This continued without effect, after which the US announced its withdrawal from the Treaty at the beginning of February. That procedure takes six months. Together with the allies, Belgium has called, in vain, for Russia to provide clear answers in recent months. On 1 February, NATO then issued a statement in the name of all allies, including Belgium. In the Declaration, NATO calls on Russia to use the six-month period before the INF formally ceases to exist to return to full and verifiable compliance with the INF Convention. In addition, NATO countries are committed to maintaining effective international arms control, disarmament and non-proliferation. Finally, NATO will examine the security implications of the failure of the INF and take the necessary steps to ensure the credibility and efficiency of its deterrent. The Aegis Ashore project in Romania but also in Poland has been operational since 2017 and is part of the US contribution to the protection of the NATO territory and the population against ballistic missiles. The system provides protection to some extent but is technically unable to withstand a large-scale ballistic missile attack. The system serves a different purpose and Russia connects projects and systems that have nothing fundamentally to do with each other. Despite the expected end of the treaty, Belgium will continue to work towards further measures within the framework of the programme of action for disarmament at the international level, such as the extension of the New START Treaty on strategic nuclear weapons after 2021. We are trying to see how we can work together, perhaps with a number of partners, in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1033x.u30	Minister, thank you. These developments are extremely worrying. I also count on Belgium's position in the United Nations Security Council that the issue of nuclear proliferation should be a very high priority. The announced end of this treaty would be a catastrophe for our continent and a very serious threat. I count on your diligence and proactivity in this area in particular in the Security Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-12-54-commissie-ic1033x.u31	Minister, I too am concerned. Anyone who is familiar with history knows that the biggest demonstration ever took place in Belgium against medium-range missiles, called cruise missiles, in which 500 000 participants have manifested. I fear that we are once again dealing with a sort of Allegang of the United States, of President Trump. A debate has also been held with President Obama on the implementation and compliance with that agreement. The Russians accused the Americans of violating the treaty, while we accused the Russians of developing a new type of missile. Usually people keep talking. I believe that the United States has now made the mistake of getting out of it itself, which gives Russia the opportunity to point the finger at the United States and the West in general. Allow me to try to make a more detailed, personal analysis. It's America first again. The sovereignty of the United States must not be undermined in any way. For this reason, President Trump, for example, has abandoned the Climate Agreement and the nuclear agreement with Iran. Once again, something is being done here that does not pose any threat to the United States, but represents a very serious threat to Europe. If it is analysed further, it is likely, as with many decisions taken by the United States today, that it is due to the fact that the United States is not free to place medium-range missiles in Asia. Once again, we have proof that Europe's security interests in Washington only come second. I hope and insist that Europe should try to form a united front in order to make it clear that we do not need to re-insert American cruise missiles on our territory. I hope that this government and the next government will translate the consensus that existed among the people 30 years ago.
