ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u2	You have received a draft agenda for today's meeting. You have received a draft agenda for today's sitting. Are there any comments on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u3	Mr Wouter Beke was sworn in as a member of the Flemish Government. Mr Wouter Beke took the oath as a member of the Flemish Government. Article 59 of the Special Act of 8 August 1980 on Institutional Reform provides that the member of the House of Representatives elected as a member of the Walloon Government, of the Government of the French Community or of the Flemish Government shall immediately cease to sit and resume his or her term of office when his or her functions as Minister cease. Article 59 of the Special Law of 8 August 1980 on the reform of the institutions provides that a member of the Chamber of Representatives elected as a member of the Flemish Government, of the Walloon Government or of the French Community Government shall immediately cease to hold office and resume his term of office when his office as Minister ceases." Article 1bis of the Act of 6 August 1931 establishing incompatibilities and prohibitions concerning ministers, former ministers and ministers of State, as well as members and former members of the Legislative Chambers provides that the member of the House of Representatives who ceases to sit as a result of his appointment as Minister or Secretary of State of the Federal Government or as a result of his election as Minister or Secretary of State of a regional or community government shall be replaced by the first alternate in good order of the list on which he was elected. Article 1a of the Law of 6 August 1931 determining the incomparencies and disqualifications concerning ministers, former ministers and ministers of State, and the members and former members of the legislative chambers provides that a member of the Chamber of Representatives who ceases to sit as a result of his appointment as Minister or State Secretary of the Federal Government or his election as Minister or State Secretary of a regional or community government shall be replaced by the first eligible successor to the list on which he was elected. Today we take the admission and swearing-in of the following alternate: Mr. Steven Matheï, alternate to the CD&V list for the Limburg electoral district, replacing Mr. Wouter Beke. Today we will proceed to the admission and swearing-in of the following successor: Mr Steven Matheï, successor to the CD&V list of the Limburg constituency, in place of Mr Wouter Beke. The credentials of this alternate were validated in our meeting on 20 June 2019. The credentials of this successor were declared valid at our meeting of 20 June 2019. Since the supplementary verification, provided for in article 235 of the Electoral Code, relates only to the preservation of the conditions of eligibility, it appears that this verification, in the light of the documents obtained, has only a character of purely formality. Since the additional examination provided for in Article 235 of the Code of Choice refers exclusively to the maintenance of the eligibility requirements, in the light of the documents obtained, it is a mere formality in the present circumstances. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] Thus shall be done. I would point out that the members elected by the electoral colleges of the Dutch-speaking region are part of the Dutch linguistic group. I would remind you that the members chosen by the electoral colleges belonging to the Dutch language area are part of the Dutch language group. Je rappelle les termes du serment: "Je jure d'observer la Constitution" "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." I recall the words of the oath: "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Your judge d'observer la Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." I ask Mr. Steven Mathei to take the constitutional oath. I would ask Mr Steven Matheï to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u4	Mr Steven Mathei will be a member of the Dutch language group. Mr Steven Matheï will be part of the Dutch language group.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u5	As agreed at the Conference of Presidents, these questions will be answered by Deputy Prime Minister Koen Geens, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u6	Minister, this week seven democratically elected politicians and two leaders of civilian movements, the two Jordis, were sentenced in Catalonia by the Spanish Supreme Court for over 100 years of imprisonment. That's not justice. That's pure revenge. They were punished for nine to thirteen years each. The worst thieves or the most brutal rapists don't get that much, not even in this country, you know that. One can even better be a returned Syrian warrior or an IS-adept than a Catalan politician. They have been condemned for their ideas because they have carried out their electoral promises with their democratic and peaceful referendum. Clearly, that is not common practice. The nine convicts were in custody for almost two years. Appeals against remand have never even been dealt with. Despite my many questions about this, the government, including the previous N-VA government, remained silent about the political prisoners all the time. Just like the European Union, they gave themselves a cowardly silence. The European Commission is looking away. This time, no ringing fingers about democracy. Hungary and Poland know they are lying. Catalonia clearly doesn't. Fortunately, the Catalan citizens will not be intimidated, Minister. They're gonna be on the streets today. Even those who oppose Catalan independence cannot but find it a disgrace that the right to freedom of expression is restricted through the courts and political opponents are put behind bars as criminals. Minister, will this government strongly condemn the monster punishment for the democratically elected? Did the Prime Minister raise this at the European Council yesterday or today? Is this government going to summon the Spanish ambassador? Is this government going to ask the Spanish government for amnesty for the nine political prisoners? Will this government, in conjunction with other countries, impose sanctions on that Spanish government if it continues to refuse to release the nine political prisoners? I am very curious to hear your answer. I hope that, like the previous government, you will not dismiss this as an internal Spanish matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u7	Minister, in 2006 my son was 14 years old, a young teenager looking for himself and, above all, very often looking for the school. In the meantime, he has completed his studies with traps and stand-ups. In the meantime, completely surprisingly and unlike what was expected, he has found a professional direction. Today, while we're here, he's exploring the world in Thailand. 2006 and 2019, there are 13 years in between. I must tell you, Minister, that I would not have missed those 13 years with him. However, that is what hangs over our fellow Members, who have peacefully presented a certain political expression to the Catalan people. Now one can think about the substance of what one wants in a democracy, thinking freely, but just the idea that these colleagues have been condemned today and thirteen long years of their freedom will be deprived of something that belongs to the normal political process is an unlikely disgrace. Today we see that there are massive parades in Catalan cities, not only of those who support the political project, but of those who support political decency. This week, the Flemish Parliament unanimously expressed its solidarity with the imprisoned politicians. My question is brief and concise: what action will this government take at European level to denounce this political disgrace?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u8	Madam President, you have a dangerous job. If we were to live in Catalonia, you would be sentenced as President of Parliament to 11.5 years of punishment for holding a debate in Parliament on independence and a referendum to hold a referendum. That is the punishment that you, as chairman of parliament, and eight others would receive; added to a prison sentence of over 100 years. This is more than what the 1981 coupers under the leadership of Colonel Tejero received in Spain. You will be punished more for wanting to carry out the will of the people than anyone who has done a coup on the Iberian Peninsula. It's not just about this, there's a second case. Three Catalans were also elected in Spain, with more than 1 million votes. That's more than you can dream of. Today they cannot enter the European Parliament and cannot take their seats there. What a democratic and legal deficit. Minister, you know justice and the European Court of Human Rights. This recognises the right of self-determination of all peoples, on two conditions: it must be democratically enforced and it must be a new democratic state system. Those conditions are fulfilled and yet they cannot enter the European Parliament. Minister, I have two questions. As Mr De Roover said, yesterday the Flemish Parliament unanimously adopted the resolution to summon the Spanish Ambassador, to urge the Spanish Government to engage in political dialogue, to urge the European Commission to press for mediation and to ensure respect for human rights. What will you do about Carles Puigdemont, who is currently staying in Brussels? I know it depends on the Justice Department, but for someone with a Belgian identity card, I think there are other means available.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u9	Madam President, I have the honour to read you the Belgian Government's reply. The Spanish Supreme Court ruled in the trial of the twelve Catalan independence leaders. They were tried for their participation in the events of 1 October 2017 and the referendum of that date. It is a sovereign decision of the Spanish court in a case relating to an internal matter. When the national review procedures are exhausted, the persons concerned may still apply to the European legal order, in particular to the European Court of Human Rights, in order to ensure that their rights are respected. Judicial proceedings have never prevented the government from underlining the importance of dialogue, as have the importance of political discussions and desires for dialogue. It is true that the government has taken note of the European arrest mandate issued by Mr Puigdemont. This is not the first time that the European arrest has been requested. I am convinced that the Belgian proceedings before the Belgian courts, with full respect for the separation of powers, will lead to a fair result. We, as executives, have no role to play in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u10	Minister, I did not expect a great answer from you, but this is not all that good. Everyone knows it's a political process. Everyone knows that this is no longer a Spanish matter, but far beyond it. You must do much more than call for dialogue. Calls for dialogue have been made by the Catalan authorities since 2006. Do you know who else has done most of it? That's Oriol Junqueras, the good man who's been in jail for 13 years. It is Spain, which has refused to enter into this dialogue for 13 years. Moreover, it is assisted by King Felipe, who testifies to an incredibly strange world, as we are used to the office of a king. The Catalans' ideas will not be destroyed by intimidating them and imposing prison sentences. They prove that by getting on the streets again today. Minister, I have asked you five specific questions to do certain things. You are not doing any of them. In this case, the government is as passive as the previous one, as passive as a rabbit for a light box. The Catalans can count on us. However, it is quite clear that the Catalans cannot count on your government. We do respect the will of the people for self-determination. It would adorn you, should you have it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u11	Minister, I do not know how far your ambitions are to succeed the Prime Minister. I think it's a difficult job for you today. The answer that has been read here can only be disappointing. Colleagues, I will read something in my reply from today's newspaper. The Flemish student Arne, who is currently staying in Catalonia, says: "I do not want Catalonia to become independent if necessary. I believe strongly in unity. That is why I deliberately do not wear a Catalan flag or other symbols, but I condemn the Spanish mentality, like many people here. You can't ignore the fact that the Spanish government is wrong, regardless of your political preference. It started on the referendum day two years ago, when the police committed excessive violence, then the censorship on the Catalan TV3 television channel journalists were no longer allowed to speak about the referendum and, above all, what is happening in recent days. Democratic politicians are suddenly dead and going to prison for years. Barcelona is like a besieged city. I will never be in favour of independence, but I am in favour of respect, democracy and freedom of the press, three values that are at stake in Catalonia now, three values that we must guard against in order to have them slandered."
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u12	Minister, I am surprised that you, an eminent lawyer, are hiding behind the pubic patch of the separation of powers. You are well aware that all the judgments have nothing to do with the separation of powers, because if justice interferes with political power, then it is given such a fundamental right. And we're talking about straight. Once the Prime Minister announced that he will soon be President of the European Union at the United Nations headquarters, you remember the Marrakesh Pact, which you may have already forgotten for the whole world that he is on the right side of history. If he dared to say the same in this case, as President of the European Parliament, he would stand on the stage of the European Parliament and say that this is a matter of fundamental rights and not of justice. That is interfering with politics, and that is very dangerous in Europe. I will add something personal to it, Minister. If asylum seekers come from Catalonia, they are welcome in my congregation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u13	Madam President, Minister, in the Kurdish camps in the conflict zone in Syria there are a large number of children linked to Belgium. According to OCAM, there are forty-one identified and located according to the General Delegate for the Rights of the Child. The majority of these children are under five years of age. Minister, we need to repatriate these children. It's a humanitarian evidence. Their lives are being put in jeopardy there. It is also a safe evidence, because leaving these children there today is sowing seeds of hatred, resentment and indoctrination for tomorrow's terrorists. Yesterday, the National Security Council met. You took part in it. Apparently, the Council decided not to do anything, because the situation on the ground would have become too dangerous. I would believe it, but what a waste, when you think that it has been two years since the General Delegate for the Rights of the Child tried to bring these children back. Of course, Belgium has repatriated six children – four orphans and two unaccompanied minors – but that's all. That's not much. And now it's probably too late. I know why we didn't take care of the others. Perhaps because these children have mothers suspected and sentenced in absentia for terrorist activities, and because your government persists in refusing any return of adults to judge them, despite the fact that actors such as the OCAM and the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office ask you to do so. You probably refuse to do so for fear of public opinion. But I think it is a disastrous short-term choice, which endangers the safety of these children and ultimately ours. While humanitarian interest in this issue was in the security interest, we are losing both. Minister, do you confirm this information that the National Security Council refuses to carry out the repatriation of Belgian children detained in Syria? Given the position of the various actors calling for the return of all concerned, do you not regret somewhat that you did not return these children during the last two years before Turkey's invasion of Syria? Finally, can the government still not consider organising a humanitarian corridor through Turkey to bring these children back?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u14	Madam President, Minister, we already knew betrayal. We already knew that the Kurds had been badly paid for their fight with us against terrorism. We know the humanitarian tragedy on the ground. I have just met one of the senior Kurdish officials who arrives from Qamishli, Dr Omar Abdel Karim, who is the negotiator for the liberation of the families of Belgian jihadists. He's already been in contact with your government. He is now in Belgium and asks to meet him again. On the ground, there are 350,000 internally displaced persons, hundreds of wounded, hundreds of already killed. The city of Ras al-Ain, where thousands of civilians are located, is currently besieged, surrounded by the Turkish army. Video images show the use of incendiary bombs with phosphorus or napalm – we do not know – which is perfectly prohibited by the law of war, especially when it comes to civilian populations. And there is this decision of the National Security Council which maintains, contrary to the opinion of our experts, against the opinion of the Federal Prosecutor, against the opinion of the OCAM, the idea that our jihadists should be tried as closely as possible to the crimes they have committed. We knew that this proposal was already very difficult, impracticable. Today, of course, it is perfectly absurd. In reality, we have totally lost control of the fate of these people. Already eleven Belgians are in nature, including two men who were detained and who are considered extremely dangerous. But, in general, on the ground, the situation of the jihadists is even more worrying since in Ain Issa camp, 800 families of jihadists have already escaped and probably joined Turkish soil. Jihadists also escaped from Kobane. We have therefore completely lost control of the situation. Mr Minister, I ask you to take your responsibilities, not to be afraid of one or the other, to ensure our safety, to ensure the safety of the people who defended us on the spot, to ensure that, finally, a Belgium, a Europe rise to ensure our and their safety. I ask you to have a strategy that is not driven by fear, but by reason, knowing that we will have to ensure our safety much better in the future. Minister, what is your strategy? Are you also going to ask, like the Kurds, for a humanitarian corridor so that those people who are under bombardment can escape from this area of Ras al-Ain and thus avoid a bloodbath?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u15	Minister, our national security has been severely tested over recent years. Europe and Belgium have experienced catastrophic events that no one wants to relive. One of the main recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry after the attacks was the need for more coordination. But I have to say today that we are not yet a step further. The OCAD confirmed yesterday that at least two Belgian fighters escaped from prisons in Syria and are now off the radar. The security risk that experts pointed out to us months, even years ago, is real today. Where are those warriors? What are they up to? Our government doesn't know. What does the government know? She does know that young Belgian children are in life-threatening conditions in Syrian refugee camps. Those children the government has been promising for two years to bring them back, but nothing of them has yet come into the house. This year alone, four Belgian children died. How long is it gonna take the government to implement its decision to bring the kids back? The situation in Syria is becoming more complex with the hour. The government is losing the momentum to intervene. The government's losing control. How many fighters have to disappear off the radar? I can only conclude that its dawdling puts our national security at risk. I therefore hope, Minister, that after yesterday's meeting of the National Security Council, following various media interventions in which there was no clear answer, you will now be able to give us a clear answer. What is Belgium doing to bring the children back? What action is the government taking to ensure that adult fighters do not disappear from the radar, but that they are tried and imprisoned? What additional efforts has the government made, given the escalation in the region?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, what we have been warning about for months has unfortunately happened. Five Belgian IS fighters who were detained in Syria are at large. This threatens not only impunity, but also a threat, because it is not because they may not be right here, Minister, that they cannot be dangerous. We have been asking for concrete actions for months, both to ensure the monitoring of Syrian fighters in the region and to guarantee a serious trial. That urgency is not new. He's been around a long time. At the beginning of this year, alarm signals went off when President Trump indicated that European countries had to take responsibility for the surveillance and trial of European Syrian fighters in that region. What did the government do? Two years ago, the decision was taken to bring children under 10 years of age who are in the region here. The adult IS fighters we would leave there. They would be guarded and tried there. Mr Minister, it is not because the choice is made to bring that to justice that you are relieved of responsibility to ensure serious surveillance and a serious trial. As far as security is concerned, last week we heard from Minister De Crem that we can count on the British and the Americans. Yesterday you said we should count on the Russians and the Syrians. It is absolutely unclear what the agreements are. The recent escapes are absolutely not reassuring. As far as the trial is concerned, Attorney Van Leeuw said that we should do everything we can to ensure that there is a solid criminal record, with evidence. Yesterday he said he's counting on a government decision to do that. Mr. Secretary, what are you waiting for? What are the concrete measures to ensure, firstly, the monitoring of Syrian fighters there and, secondly, a serious trial?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u17	Madam President, the Minister of Justice, the directors of the SGRS, the OCAM and the federal prosecutor have therefore provided us with an update on the situation of Belgians belonging to Daesh in northern Syria. First of all, I welcome this transparency exercise. This state of affairs allows us to nuance speeches that are certainly generous on the human level. Indeed, who is not sensitive to the plight of these Belgian children and all the children in Syria? Some readings sometimes, I regret, are simplistic, and may prove irresponsible for national security. This, in my opinion and that of my group, must be, after the attacks of March 2016, our priority and that of all our citizens. From now on, we must draw the political consequences of the new reality in Syria. Mr. Minister of Justice, as the OCAM tells us, in a few days we have lost all our information channels on the spot. There is an urgent need to re-establish this network, in consultation with our neighbouring countries. It is a crucial tool for understanding and managing the situation, both humanitarianly and safely. We must not let this misconception spread that the government remains passive and insensitive to the tragedy that is unfolding for the time being. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the constant political monitoring of this dossier, while taking into account the views of the National Security Council, not to mention the importance of communication to the population. I'm coming to the repatriation of underage children. I'm not talking about little children under the age of five here. Beyond the age pyramid, the pyramid of danger also seems to me to be fundamental. Accurate profiling will allow us to follow in the most appropriate way possible, on a case-by-case basis, minors returning to Belgium. For adults, a trial and trial, whether they are taking place here or elsewhere, are essential to the justice of the victims of the atrocities committed. We need to dialogue as soon as possible with our neighbours and quickly find a balanced solution between the preservation of our security and the need for a fair trial.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u18	Madam President, congratulations on the presidency's first performance in this plenary session. Mr Minister, the situation has already been outlined in detail by my colleagues, and so I can immediately drop in and come to the essence, which was also the reason for me to go into politics. The essence is that the situation in the region is clearly worrying. This obviously applies to the civilian population on the ground. One would sometimes forget that there are also citizens living there, but also to the people here in Belgium, because they are afraid and are awake from this situation. Remember that we have been one of the greatest victims of terrorist acts by IS terrorists, in Zaventem and in Maalbeek. People have not forgotten that; it crawls under the skin and leaves a trauma, and not only with the direct victims. The question of what will happen to the IS fighters there; who have entered the wild, as Mr Van Tigchelt of the OCAD explained yesterday, remains a great concern. For the record, among IS fighters, I understand both adult men and women, but not children because they are innocent. These are people who deliberately and knowingly chose to be part of such a gruesome regime. They participate in the horror of the 21st century, as we may describe IS. That's what's keeping people awake. More specifically, there are two risks involved. The first risk involves uncertainty about its own security. What if such warriors return and commit acts of terror here again? The second question is what will happen if those warriors go unpunished. It is not about handbag thieves but about people who have committed serious crimes and must be punished for them. There is only one answer to both concerns: that these fighters must be tried on the ground. After all, there are the crimes committed and there are the testimonies to be found. That's where it all happens. We know that the courts on the ground are not functioning well enough. That is why we propose that we cooperate with a number of European countries to try these people on the ground through a fair trial, so taking human rights into account only IS does not respect human rights. Minister, these atrocities must be punished, and we have been waiting a long time for justice. How can you ensure that IS fighters are tried quickly, efficiently and fairly? What have you done and what will you do? Have you already made contact with other countries in this respect, so that people can be less anxious and sleep on their two ears?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u19	In the meantime, Minister, everyone knows that the Turkish army launched a military operation against the Kurds in Syria last week. According to the OCAD, the body that deals with the analysis of the terrorist threat, this conflict between the Turks and the Kurds can also have major consequences for us in Belgium. The Kurds guarded dozens of Belgian IS terrorists and Turkey's actions have already released at least five IS terrorists. There is also a risk of a new flow of refugees towards Europe. OCAD's top man, Paul Van Tigchelt, proposed to transfer traceable IS terrorists to Belgium and to try and hold them in our country. Minister, is the government following the advice of the OCAD? How many terrorists are we talking about here? What is the security risk to our people? After all, we cannot bring all these people back here. I have one last important question. The Belgian government signed a refugee deal with Erdogan in 2016 with the other EU Member States. The whole federal government was in favour of this Turkey deal. Flemish Interest was the only party that warned that this would make us Erdogan's lapdog. What will the government do if Erdogan opens the gates to the European mainland, something he is already threatening to do? Does the government have a concrete emergency plan for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u20	Madam President, Minister, it has been months since the experts of the Federal Prosecutor's Office of the OCAM sounded the alarm and today the chaos so announced is happening in front of us in the north-east of Syria. We are aware of the Turkish invasion which defies all the rules of international law and which, above all, prevents the Kurds today from monitoring, controlling the camps where the families of jihadists and the prisons where Belgian terrorist fighters are held are amassed. Minister, this chaos, you should have prevented it at all costs because, already in 2017, your government, the federal government, had an agreement in principle to repatriate children under the age of ten to Belgium. In two years, six orphaned children have been repatriated and, today, sixty-nine Belgian children are staying in completely disastrous conditions, in overcrowded camps and without access to basic care. And it's not a mistake for the specialized organizations, for the general delegates for children's rights, to have tried to call on you to abide by the federal government's promise. Even more serious, on the security side this time, as the OCAM told us yesterday in the Committee on External Relations, we are gradually losing control of the situation. We are losing control of those Belgian terrorist fighters who, ladies and gentlemen, represent genuine time bombs for our national security. Minister, my question is quite simple. I hope that you will reassure me and that what I read this morning in the press, namely that the National Security Council decided not to do anything, is wrong. I hope, Minister, that today the federal government will take immediate concrete actions to regain control over these Belgian terrorist fighters and to repatriate and save these Belgian children detained in Syria.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u21	Madam President, Deputy Prime Minister, since my previous questions, the situation has changed greatly and tragically. Turkey has launched a totally unacceptable military operation in Syria with Kurdish forces in sight. These same Kurdish forces, we must recall, were our allies in a constant and firm way for a very long time in the fight against radical Islamism. We stay on the balcony in front of the facts and that is what is tragic! It is an invasion with serious diplomatic, military, security and humanitarian consequences! The consequences that must make us react in order to restore calm to this region, but also to ensure the security of our country directly and indirectly. I must admit that the government's position seems to me to be relatively vague and, in any case, marked by a whole series of question marks. Yesterday, the statements of several Members from the majority left me pantois! Finally, we do not know what was decided at the National Security Council. These various issues, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, deserve clear answers and the House of Representatives must be involved at the heart of the process. Therefore, could you please tell me the evolution of the Belgian position, both on diplomatic and military aspects, defended in the various European and international forums, as well as the bi- and multilateral initiatives that our country has taken since last week. Finally, what answers does the government give to the sensitive question of Foreign Terrorism Fighters and children? What consultations do you have with the federated entities in particular?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u22	Madam President, Minister, I had addressed this question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Reynders, because I would like to highlight the aspect on the ground. We know what happened there. At some point Erdogan was given the green light. For that they point the finger at Trump, not unjustly of course. Let us not forget, however, that when Trump asked the European allies in January what contributions they were going to make to ensure that Turkey did not indeed cross that border, we in Europe unfortunately collectively closed our eyes. We have thought a bit whistling in the dark that the problem would blow over by ignoring it. Today it turns out that not only does it not pass, but that on the contrary it is a complete game changer, a word that was used yesterday. The withdrawal of the US, perhaps soon followed by Great Britain and France, has brought the helm all the way back into the hands of President Assad's Syrian regime, in consultation with the Russians. The Kurds have chosen eggs for their money, because they had to choose eggs for their money. We let them down after, indeed, Mr Lacroix said it, they took the coal out of the fire a few years before us. They have now concluded a monstrous covenant, which makes Erdogan, with total absence of the Western powers, so to speak, now clashes with a Syrian-Russian axis. This is a new situation for which we cannot be blind. The question goes fundamentally beyond the fight against symptomism. Minister, how do we deal with this new situation? How do we deal with the new geopolitical situation, which we may find pleasant or unpleasant, but which is simply a reality on the ground? Something has to be done. Otherwise Erdogan will keep blackmailing us. The deal with Turkey certainly made sense, but of course it was meant to buy time, so that we could protect our southern border ourselves. Unfortunately, little has been done about this. To what extent has the priority of this matter been understood at European level? To what extent will you be the lawyer?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, the situation in Syria is indeed worrying from a geopolitical point of view. I share that analysis, which many of you have made. I shall try to draw attention in turn to the aspects of both foreign affairs and national security and of a moral nature. In any case, we need to assess the situation on a day-to-day basis. It is a daily duty of the government and our security services – which I also thank for their involvement. They informed you yesterday, as they inform us every day. They have made tremendous progress in establishing a fairly accurate information situation. First, as you know, Belgium condemned the Turkish unilateral military operation in north-eastern Syria the same day. Like the European Union, which examined the situation last Monday, Belgium considers this operation unacceptable and demands an immediate end to it. Together with the other European countries members of the Security Council, Belgium immediately seized the Council for a debate on the situation. The strong disapproval of Belgium and European partners in the Security Council was also communicated in very clear terms to the Turkish Ambassador on the occasion of his convocation last week by the Foreign Minister. As for the effects of the Turkish operation, it will have serious humanitarian consequences, with dozens of civilian casualties and more than 160,000 people fleeing the combat zones. As you know, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has already received the Director General of the International Organization for Migration, António Vitorino, to express his deep concerns and to have a precise view of the situation on the ground. In its conclusions, the Foreign Affairs Council of the European Union has made it very clear that the Union will not provide assistance for stabilisation or development in areas where the rights of local people are violated or violated. Belgium and the European Union will therefore not accept the forced resettlement of Syrian refugees in the area that Turkey wants to place under its control in northern Syria. Secondly, the Turkish invasion threatens to have serious consequences for the stability of the entire region. The precise impact of these events on the balance of power within Syria is not yet clear. Thirdly, the Turkish operation is seriously jeopardising the fight of the international coalition against the Islamic State, as the operation is targeting the Kurdish armed forces that were crucial partners and are in the struggle of the coalition and to whom Mr De Roover has rightly paid tribute from that perspective. At the Foreign Affairs Council last Monday, Belgium supported the suggestion that a meeting of the anti-IS coalition should be convened as soon as possible, with the exception of Turkey, of course. In the meantime, the United States has confirmed that this meeting will take place in Washington on 28 October. Our country will be there. As you know, Heads of State or Government will also be discussing Turkey's actions in Syria at the European Council this week. The question will be raised as to how the pressure on Turkey can be maintained to stop this operation in northeast Syria. Finally, yesterday in NATO's lap, our country strongly condemned the Turkish operation. The question of possible sanctions, economic or other, should be discussed at European level in the framework of a joint European Union approach to the situation in north-eastern Syria. I refer to the decisions taken by the European Union Foreign Ministers meeting in Luxembourg last Monday, which clearly condemned Turkey's action and reiterated the decision of some Member States to immediately suspend the granting of arms export licences to Turkey. In Belgium this is a regional competence and the three regions have been unanimous and clear on this issue. Colleagues, for the Belgian Foreign Fighters and their children, the figures are scalable and vary according to the exact parameters used. At this stage, 43 adults, men and women, and 56 children, are located in camps or prisons. If there is confusion in this regard, it is because – most of the time – they are people who are housed in camps or prisons and it is not an estimate of the total number of Foreign Terrorism Fighters that could still be in the area. For further details, I refer you to the figures delivered yesterday by the OCAM in the Committee on External Relations. The Government's position in favour of children and their repatriation is clear and unchanged. It is therefore wrong to claim that the decision to repatriate them remained a dead letter. Five of them and one young adult, all orphans and unaccompanied, were repatriated in June. For the other children, who are with their respective mothers, we are blocked by the practical impossibility of separating children from their mothers. This is the result of the attitude of the Kurds as well as international humanitarian organisations. It is therefore somewhat ambiguous to constantly plead for the return of minors without specifying that, in most cases, it is impossible to organize without admitting that of their mother. That is the situation, Mrs Liekens, that I have been living on the ground for more than two years. As for adults, the Belgian Government's position is identical to that of its European partners most concerned: it is preferable that these Foreign Terrorist Fighters should be prosecuted and tried in the region. I would add that the government and its European partners have not remained inactive. We have negotiated constantly on this subject so that the Iraqi justice system can judge them with respect for human rights. As far as I know, none of the European partners, including those who are most able to intervene, are at present changing its position on this subject despite the situation in the region. Discussions are under way with Iraq. This is not about having the Foreign Terrorism Fighters tried in Iraq at all costs. The issue of humanitarian guarantees, in terms of fundamental rights, is obviously one of the main elements in these discussions. Once again, we are following this situation closely with the Security Council and will reconvene next week with a view to weighing risks. I am not saying, ladies and gentlemen, that there is no risk that people from camps or prisons will eventually return to Belgian territory in an involuntary way for us. But at the moment we believe that the risk of a return under the radar exists but is limited. This risk must be weighed against the other risks that would inevitably result from the repatriation of some 50 FTFs. Yesterday, the security services informed us again, correct and contradictoryly, about this. Finally, I repeat that we have a well-functioning procedure, the hotspot in Turkey, which is being extended to take account of the current situation in the event that Turkey finds and expels Belgian FTFs on its territory. Ladies and gentlemen, we take your criticism and your correct attitude as citizens of this country in terms of national security and human rights very much to heart. They encourage us to continue monitoring the situation. But remember that we are not alone, that we are in a pact with the European Allies who must move forward together. Nor do you forget that if we take decisions of this order, we do not do so by announcing for a long time what we will do, because that would not be wise in such circumstances. I've listened to you very carefully. We will do our utmost to continue to monitor this situation as closely as possible with a view to national security and human rights.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u24	Minister, thank you for your answer. I personally have doubts about the ability to obtain guarantees in terms of human rights from countries such as Iraq and Syria today. But most of all, I'm going to focus my reply on the children's issue. You tell us that it is not possible to separate children from their mother. But nobody asks you! The idea is that in order to bring these children back, we must obviously bring them back with their mother. Indeed, many of these mothers are either suspected or already sentenced in absentia for terrorist activities. But again, it is the government's determination to refuse to bring back adults that prevents it from bringing back children on behalf of the family unit. It's still very cynical. In fact, even if I understand that we are not alone, and that we are in a European group, nothing would prevent the repatriation of these children with their mothers, and that these mothers - and in some cases these fathers - are tried and condemned here for their actions. This seems to me the only solution, both humanitarian and security.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u25	Minister, thank you. I hear your indignation. I hear your convictions. I can also hear the Turkish President sneezing at these outrages, since in fact there has been absolutely no sanction, no real reaction on the part of our governments. That is the situation today. As far as justice is concerned, I am hearing again this path of Iraqi justice. I recall that the vast majority of our jihadists are in Syria today and that we will therefore have to deal either with Bashar al-Assad or with the Turks. I recall that it is through Turkey that all European jihadists have left and that all European jihadists have returned to carry out attacks. That is the cooperation that awaits us in the area of justice. You did not have the opportunity to reply, but before I finish, I would like to tell you that we know the two Belgians who escaped. This is Yassine Sheikhi and Mohamed Botachbakut. There's one who said he's dead - what he's not. There's another one who volunteered for terrorist attacks in Europe. That is the result of your security policy. I only talked about security, Mr. De Maegd. The Belgian government's policy today is that two extremely dangerous Belgian terrorists are now free from their movements, have passed under radars and we do not have the possibility to sue them before the courts.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u26	Minister, I generally appreciate your nuanced tone in a sensitive debate, but in this regard I find your reassuring tone inappropriate. For our safety, we do not need reassuring words but action. You refer to the repatriation of the children and say that it is impossible to do so without the mothers. However, the position of Child Focus is that this is legally possible. That was also the nature of the resolution recently tabled by Ecolo-Green. So I urge you to read that resolution and do something to get those children back from Syria. Moreover, you have no plan to track down the two Belgian fighters who have already escaped, let alone to ensure, in the short term, that those who are still under control are punished and imprisoned. You refer to a meeting on 28 October, so only within two weeks. You also referred to solutions of international trial or trial in the region which, at best, will only work in the long term. I can therefore only conclude that the government is not doing the best it can to guarantee our security at the moment. If you do not act with this government soon, you risk our national security.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u27	Minister, your words are reassuring but not reassuring. What you have said is what you have actually been saying for months about the trial and surveillance of Syrian fighters. I do not hear any specific answers to the question of how you are going to organise the monitoring of Syrian fighters in the region and what concrete arrangements have been made. I also stressed the importance of a proper criminal record in addition to the negotiations you are conducting with the Iraqis. In order to avoid impunity, it is important that sufficient evidence is collected. That's the alarm signal we received yesterday from Federal Attorney Van Leeuw. He says they're waiting for a government decision. Minister, what are you waiting for to use the necessary people and resources to ensure that we avoid impunity and bring these criminals to justice in a serious way?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u28	Minister, thank you for your answer. The information and uncertainties that come to us from Syria at the moment lead to a legitimate and understandable anxiety, just three years after the 22 March attacks. All our fellow citizens must have answers to their questions in order to ease their fears about the Syrian question in all its aspects. I am talking first of all about the security aspect, in Syria itself and, yes, Mr Dallemagne, also in Belgium. I am also talking about the humanitarian aspect, the repatriation of children and the management of adults. A clear message from the government, fair decisions on this highly sensitive and sensitive issue must enable us to improve our management of the crisis, to appease the public's feelings and to improve the living together, which is the corollary. We will, of course, be vigilant so that the government can continue to act.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u29	Minister, I myself visited these camps several years ago and saw with my own eyes the humanitarian tragedies that are taking place there. There is malnutrition; it is miserable. The biggest risk is that the children are immersed in the ideas of the caliphate. That means all the more that we need to get those children out of there as soon as possible. It is not because one's mother is that one does not pose a risk to safety. It is not because one's mother is that one cannot be an IS warrior. We stand by our position: we need to see how we can get the children out of there as quickly as possible and leave the potentially dangerous people there. After all, the safety of the Belgian people remains our main concern and no IS fighter should get away with it. Minister, we expect the greatest effort from you to set up hybrid courts on the ground so that we do not have to bring the IS fighters here and they can be convicted on the spot. If they come here, they're still a risk. Surely we do not want to run the risk of someone like the executioner of Raqqa being acquitted here because of a lack of evidence? We've been hearing that for a long time now, but I could paraphrase it, after the blabla it's time for the boom.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u30	Congratulations on your maiden speech, Mrs. Liekens.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u31	Thank you for your reply, Minister. I hope that the government is preparing for an emergency, in case Turkey effectively opens its gates. Last week I told you that the raid is yet another example of how unreliable Erdogan is. The Flemish Interest has been saying for years that we cannot make deals with such a regime. We reiterate our call for the immediate cessation of the EU's accession negotiations with Turkey. The government must listen to the people. No one wants IS terrorists in our country, not even those who want to be tried here voluntarily. The signal we send to the government is simple: protect our people and never let any terrorist into our country again.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u32	Minister, you began by congratulating our security services. You're right. I invite the federal government to listen to our security services. They told us yesterday that most of the children were located in the Al-Hol camp, outside the combat zone. It is therefore operationally possible for our country to repatriate those children who are now in grave danger. As for the solutions to protect us from these foreign terrorists, you are talking about a court in Iraq that would guarantee fundamental freedoms. The federal prosecutor told us yesterday: we cannot count on Iraq, which is still facing the death penalty today, to respect fundamental freedoms and the same standards as our country. We no longer have time to wait for a hypothetical international tribunal to try these terrorists. We must do everything – and I invite you to take action – to ensure our national security and save these children.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u33	Minister, thank you for your answers. My group's position is known: the Turkish operation must cease immediately. It is therefore up to Belgium to draw the consequences, including within NATO, the European Union and the United Nations Security Council. This invasion raises many questions and there are no simple or complete answers. I agree with you on this point. But fighting Daesh and ensuring our security must be Belgian priorities. With regard to the Foreign Terrorism Fighters, it is a matter of working towards the creation of an international tribunal to the height of the horror of their facts to judge them according to our legal names. If a case-by-case approach is the key, priority must be given to humanitarian solutions for Belgian children so that they have come out of this chaos as soon as possible and are accompanied by the competent services, which we have asked urgently to hear.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u34	You have not been able to provide many direct solutions, Mr Minister, but that is also logical, because there are no direct solutions. Let us be honest about that, too. If I list all the suggestions you have received here today, we are not much closer to the solution, quite the contrary. Some of my fellow Members have the impression that nothing has happened in the last few days and weeks. A fundamentally new situation has arisen. Let us not forget that, under Article 5 of NATO, if we do not pay attention, we will still be obliged, when the Turkish armed forces enter into a direct conflict with Syrian troops, to make a manifest defence of the Turkish side. Imagine for a moment the situation that would then arise. We are therefore asking for an accurate assessment of the new situation. Moreover, it confirms once again that Turkey cannot, of course, be a member of the European Union, that the priority of security for our southern border must, and at last, be on the European agenda again, and that, if we want to talk about the Foreign Terrorist Fighters, we will have to come to the unpleasant realization that we may have to talk to the Syrian authorities tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u35	Madam President, Minister, we are in the 21st century and never have domestic violence been so present in the news, whether at home in Belgium or in neighbouring countries. France has also launched a Grenelle des violences conjugales. That is to say, the problem is important today. Since the beginning of the year, we have had nineteen femicides. It's huge! In addition to this extreme, there are daily abuses, harassment, beatings, insults because violence is not always physical, it is also verbal. But above all, a UCL study published this week has shown that in eight out of ten cases, after the breakup, all these violences continue. Women leave the violent husband – it's always in this sense – with their children. They find themselves in institutions and they continue to be prosecuted and beaten. This usually lasts at least five more years. Mr Minister, we are wondering what we expect to do to act quickly and effectively, especially as we see that countries that have taken strong measures to combat this violence have achieved results. Here I take the example of Spain, which has set up courts dedicated specifically to cases of domestic violence. The court has 72 hours to open a case in case of a complaint. If the evidence is obvious, a trial is launched within 15 days and an electronic bracelet is placed on the perpetrator. If he comes too close to his victim, the police have ten minutes to act. In the federated entities, preventive measures and accompanying measures exist for those women who have been beaten and fled. But at the federal level, we have to act quickly or it doesn't work. What measures are being implemented? You reminded the Justice Committee in September that we had tools to act. In the meantime, the facts are there, the figures are there. Can the measures I have just mentioned – and which exist in Spain in particular – be applied in our country? I believe that there is a need to maintain pressure and to be able to respond to those women who are victims of violence on a daily basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u36	Madam President, Mrs Reuter, ladies and gentlemen, the fight against domestic violence is a real political priority. In 2006, a related federal circular came into force. It provides for reference magistrates, the focus on the victim and the preparation by prosecutors of action plans in each district. We need to move more towards a multidisciplinary chain approach. Moreover, criminal law is not the only solution. That is why we found a very special sanction to be applied by the Public Prosecutor's Office: the residence ban, which we have just reinforced through the law of 5 May 2019. Under this new provision, a person who contravenes this prohibition is more severely punished. Then, at the Community level, the multidisciplinary approach of the Family Justice Centers was chosen. This formula, involving many services, currently exists in Limburg and Antwerp. I would say – even if it's easy to say when you're in the federal government – that it should exist in each province, but that's the responsibility of the Communities. In addition, we have introduced a legal exception to professional secrecy in the event of consultation between different services (physician, police, prosecutor, etc.). in relation to a specific case, as long as the public prosecutor admits it. I would add that we have specialized chambers in the courts, as long as they decide. They have the power to do so, they can appoint judges specialized in this field. I am particularly in favour of this. Finally, Minister De Crem, Minister Peeters and I signed a ministerial circular on harassment alarms in the context of violence between ex-partners to allow for a pilot project in Ghent on this alarm. This circular defines precisely the tasks of the police services, including the areas and information and communication centres within this framework. A potential victim is allowed to participate in this pilot project only if multidisciplinary consultation finds the risk of a vital situation. Here are some of the measures I wanted to submit to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u37	Minister, thank you. I hear that there is a willingness to act, to act better, but the figures are there too. I don't know if you've had the opportunity, like me, to visit several centres that accommodate these women, most of the time with their children. This situation is unbearable. I therefore call on the government or the next government, no matter what, to act quickly. The measures you have presented to me are obviously voluntary. There are pilot projects and initiatives in several provinces, although they may need to be expanded. But it's really the speed of intervention that makes it work. I also insist on the follow-up of the author of the facts after the break-up. My group had already tabled a bill promoting the electronic bracelet for the perpetrator of domestic violence. I think that we must continue to do so and intensify because there is an urgent need.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to stick to the two-minute speaking time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u39	Madam President, Minister, last Saturday the much-discussed demonstration of Extinction Rebellion continued. For me, this was a very different demonstration of the climate than that of the climate skippers. I saw that people in the neutral zone, the zone in which they cannot argue, could freely argue. I saw some protesters trying to enter the royal palace's gardens. I saw that it was necessary to obstruct public transport in the Koningsplein so that it could not be driven. At some point, the police intervened, I think a little too late. The social media immediately released videos, including those who said that there was excessive violence by policemen. I have a few specific questions for you. Who is responsible for public order at such events in Brussels? In the neutral zone there is clearly no reason to argue. Why didn't they take action that Saturday from the beginning? On what basis did the law enforcement agencies take action and have they made arrests? If there had been excessive police violence, will this be investigated and followed up? Is the M.O. adjusted? Finally, we have all heard the statements of the VSOA. How do you feel about such statements?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u40	Madam President, Mr Demon, on 12 October, the Brussels police arrested 435 climate activists from Extinction Rebellion. The activists tried, as we have all seen, to occupy the gardens of the Royal Palace and threw up blockades on and around the Koningsplein. That's within the neutral zone, just to be clear. I'll quote another number. Around 1 000 demonstrations per year take place in Brussels. Although I do not have an inventory of what exactly is a left-wing demonstration and what exactly would be a right-wing demonstration. I do not know whether a peasant demonstration is left or right, I do not know whether a demonstration of Catalan independence is left or right. In their own countries, this movement is supported by right-wing parties, whereas in their own region of Catalonia, the sea is supported by left-wing parties. Is a demonstration for a higher minimum pension left or right? That too is a prominent point in every programme, both on the right and on the left side as well as in the centre. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that any demonstration should be dealt with on the basis of a thorough and neutral prior risk analysis and in the same way. There can be no distinction. However, there must also be absolute respect for the safeguard of that free zone and that neutral zone. It is not possible for demonstrators, in this case climate activists, to put almost physical pressure on our democratically elected people and on our country's policy-makers. The neutral zone must be protected at all times and immediate action must be taken in the event of an infringement. For me, this includes zero tolerance, and I will ask the Brussels crisis centre and the High Official to monitor this in particular. However, the policy of law enforcement in Brussels, where more than 1,000 demonstrations take place every year, is primarily the mayor's responsibility. There, in particular, the necessary reflection is needed in order to avoid this kind of incident in the future. As far as alleged police violence is concerned, I immediately requested the report from the crisis centre. That reports that the order service went very professional on Saturday. This is not surprising, because we have an excellent local and federal police force. If we can believe the media, the provoking of police violence in the neutral zone at the Royal Palace was well planned by Extinction Rebellion. Violence against the police is always and everywhere unacceptable, but this also applies to disproportionate violence by police forces against demonstrators. In the meantime, the Chief Constable has ordered an investigation, of which I expect the results with you as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u41	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased that you will take action, because a neutral zone must be preserved as such. The Mayor of Brussels must also abide by this. I would also like to thank you for your clear statements. I did not talk about left-wing or right-wing protesters, as I did not want to speak such words. I hope, however, that action will be taken on the Mayor of Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u42	Madam President, Minister, we are actually moving from asylum crisis to asylum crisis in this country. Ministers come and go, Secretary of State come and go, but the asylum flow to our country continues to last. In 2018, under Secretary of State Francken, the number of asylum applications increased by 20%. Mrs. De Block, you must have thought "I can do better!" In nine months there were 15% more asylum applications. In this country it is permanently open day. It is an expensive open day, at the expense of the taxpayer, at the expense of the citizen. Madam Secretary, you asked for extra money in February. You asked for extra money in June. You asked for extra money in October. The cost of accommodating all these people here amounts to no less than EUR 411 million. The common man and woman would therefore decide that the limits have been reached. But nothing could be further from the truth. Mrs De Block, I heard you on the radio this morning saying that 500 to 600 additional shelters per month will be needed. Doesn't it ever end? How many additional shelters have you created? How many more do you intend to create?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u43	Madam President, Mr Van Grieken, thank you for your question. It is no secret that since the summer of 2018, the occupancy in the reception network has continuously increased by around 500 people per month. This will probably also be the case in the coming months. I have already answered several parliamentary questions on this subject, even yesterday. So this is definitely not a secret. The main reason for the increasing need for shelters is not so much the influx that is much higher, but the outflux that is much lower. After all, the best practices of our asylum authorities are too low. The level of asylum in Belgium is currently about back at the level of the last 10 years. The significant reduction in the number of decisions due to a shortage of staff in our asylum authorities was therefore problematic. So I dealt with that deficit right away. I asked for money once for that. You're new here, but you're confusing the provisional twelfths with a one-off money demand. In the system of provisional twelfths, money that was requested in 2018 was part of it by my predecessor and was not to be included in the budget every few months ago. I used that money to strengthen our asylum authorities, with a lot more staff, and to bet on distress campaigns. I used that money to speed up these treatments and to recreate reception capacity. I said yesterday in committee, your partymate was there and listened, that it is much harder today to find shelters than in the past. People are worried, and I understand that. I went to Mouscron this morning to have a conversation with the staff and with the people in the shelter. It is and remains, whether you like it or not, a legal mission to organise care. Anyone applying for asylum in this country has the right to bed, bread and bath under national and international law. What you think of that is your opinion, but we're not gonna put people out on the street. The structural solution - I said it yesterday in response to another question where your colleague was also present - is at European level. I have often fought for better cooperation and more solidarity between Member States, not only with Member States bordering countries, but also with Member States such as our country that are victims of secondary migration. How come this is up-to-date again? I refer to the conflict in Syria, on which the Minister of Justice has just answered questions. The concern may arise that this situation will give rise to a new flow of asylum seekers to our countries. That is why we must also pay attention in the coming months. We must ensure that the outflow increases, which happens, although not yet at full cruising speed, and that the inflow remains as low as possible. As you can see, I'm doing my homework.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u44	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, but I disagree with many of your statements. I may be new to Parliament, but everyone knows who is paying the bill for the mass migration you must try to manage. I don't care what budget you make the money from, but I know our people have to pay for it. People are sick and tired of paying for the asylum crisis bill. Many Members in the Chamber think that we can influence everything, even global warming, but apparently we cannot control or stop migration. However, in the ordinary village street people do see what needs to be done. Refugees must be taken care of, but not here, but in their own region. The European external borders must be closed and we must control our own borders. And last but not least, a genuine return policy must finally be put in place. We do not need to accommodate more people, but we need to send more people back. A few years ago, the government had a master plan for the return, but in practice that master plan turned out to be a failure. That master plan is a disaster plan. We need to be boss over our own boundaries again.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u45	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, one in five Belgians currently lives below the poverty line. These include 250,000 workers and thousands of children. Behind these unacceptable figures, the minister, is a very hard and complex reality. I am not talking about the questions that these people in great insecurity face every day: will they be able to pay the rent at the end of the month? Will we be able to eat properly until the end of the month? Will we be able to pay for our children's school trip? These are questions that people who are lucky not to have a problem with money do not ask themselves. But they are the daily lot of people in great precariousness and who, unfortunately, must very often make a choice. This choice is often made at the expense of health, which becomes a second choice. When some parents have to choose between feeding their children or caring for themselves, health care is second to none. A recent study by Solidaris shows that one in four Belgians give up or post-care because of lack of resources. This figure is completely unacceptable. I know, Madam Minister, that you have not always been very attentive to the signals sent by Solidaris, which is a shame. Indeed, this would have allowed your government to pursue a more social and humane health care policy. Allow me to quote other bodies and institutions. For example, the Federal Office of the Plan reveals that the well-being of middle-income people between 2016 and 2017 has deteriorated mainly due to the deterioration of health. The KCE indicates that the percentage of people who had to postpone health care for financial reasons remains higher than the European average, especially for low-income people. Finally, the European Commission believes that Belgium is the country where inequalities in access to care between high and low incomes are greatest. Minister, what are the consequences of these social inequalities in terms of care? As the Solidaris study shows, the more precarious people are, the more their health deteriorates and the more likely they are to develop serious, disabling and chronic diseases. And if one adds to this the constant stress in which they live, one can easily imagine that their life expectancy is clearly diminished. Minister, this is completely unacceptable. There is clearly a social emergency, to which your government was unable to respond in the previous legislature. I'll only have one question. What do you intend to do today and tomorrow?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u46	Mr Prévot, in this debate, the question is what is the cause of these inequalities in health and what should be done to remedy them. Since the beginning of the legislature, the Michel government has created more than 210,000 positions and the entire welfare envelope has been allocated, which has led to an increase in allowances. Although activation is a regional competence, we have partnered with VDAB, Forem, Actiris and AViQ to work together to reintegrate long-term patients and for people who are unemployed. According to this year's WHO report entitled "Ensuring a healthy and prosperous life for all", there are five key areas that impact and contribute to health inequalities in the European Union. First, financial security accounts for 35 per cent of inequalities, quality of living, 29 per cent, social and human capital, 19 per cent, working and employment conditions, 7 per cent and access to quality health care, 10 per cent. Therefore, having certainty about income is the most important issue in addressing health inequalities. This may surprise you, but this report noted that health care contributes only 10% to the self-reported level of health. Further analysis shows that of these 10%, affordable health care accounts for 12% of the total impact of health care on health inequalities. This amounts to 1.2 per cent. In the area of health, the quality of health care remains the main factor. We've been working on this for five years. We have also taken steps to reduce direct health payments. According to the OECD, in Belgium the out-of-pocket was 17.5% in 2013 and 14.9% in 2016. This percentage has therefore decreased. The WHO report does not argue for free medicine as you do, but rather advocates identifying problems and taking proportionate initiatives that can help ensure access to health care. That's what we did for five years. As a result, more people have benefited from a better quality of health care. Accessibility is indeed a reality in our country, and this is reflected in all reports. So I strongly advise you not only to consult the studies of your mutuality but also those of the WHO!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u47	Madam Minister, thank you for the form but not for the substance, because I am absolutely not reassured. I'm still hungry. You did not answer my question, and yet there was only one: what are we doing today and tomorrow? You have recalled a few measures taken by your government under the previous legislature, but it is felt that for you, precariousness, or in any case inequalities in health, are fatal, whereas this is not at all the case. This is the consequence of political choices. Your political choices under the previous legislature were disastrous. Should I recall the two billion savings in our health care? Should I recall the increase in the price of consultation among certain specialists and the price of a series of drugs? Do I have to recall the refusal to allow the most fragile and chronically ill to be exempted from advancing the amount of their consultations? As I said, health inequalities are not inevitable. It is unacceptable today for our fellow citizens to move this health care into the background. To avoid this, we ask for full reimbursement of basic care to the general practitioner, dentist and psychologist. But for that, we need strong social security and that was not your government's choice. Madam Minister, if you and your government do not respond, you will be guilty of failing to assist anyone in danger, and I am weighing my words.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u48	Minister, according to this morning's press, the Free Mutualities were the record number of long-term diseases in our country. For us, it is clear that if there is a shameful figure that reflects your anti-social policy - I am referring to the policy advocated by this right-wing government - it is indeed that of the 430,000 long-term sick workers. He cares about us without surprise. Moreover, at the time, we warned you that your career extension policies would lead to this situation. Here we are, Madam Minister. Personally, I worked for 21 years at Aldi's. Do you know what it is, Madam Minister, to carry heavy loads, to have working days starting at 8:30 a.m. to finish at 7:30 p.m., to have to unload the trucks, to install the crates one by one on the shelves and, in the meantime, to run to help his colleague from the caisse, who is overburdened because there are too many customers and the boss refuses to hire? Besides, at the end of the day, we still have to clean the store. And all of this, in the context of part-time work that gives you the right to a wage with which you cannot even have a decent life. I am particularly concerned about the deterioration of working conditions, as it is targeted at the sectors where women work mainly. I am thinking not only of Aldi, but also of the cleaning sector, health care and hospitals. It's not for nothing that white coats have been carrying out actions for weeks. This finding of deterioration in working conditions is also noted by mutualities. In 20 years, the disability rate for women has more than doubled, from 4 to 10 per cent. For five years, what was your answer, minister? Instead of tackling all these causes that I have just mentioned, you have put pressure on the workers to reintegrate them into the labour market - supposedly for their own good. But, Madam Minister, your policy is not working. As the mutualities also point out in their balance sheet, your integration journey is ineffective and is, in reality, "a machine to fire", as the FGTB characterizes it. Minister, do you not think that it is high time to challenge this hunt for sick workers? Then there is a big absentee in your "accountability policy", namely the bosses. As a result, the mutual societies propose to shift this responsibility on two fronts: prevention and higher allowances. What do you think of this proposal, which the PTB obviously supports?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u49	Madam President, Mrs Moscufo, for twenty years we have seen an increase in the number of invalids. So it's hard to talk about an explosion. Various causes explain this upward trend. First, the ageing population increases the number of people with long-term incapacity for work as the relative risks increase with age. We then observe a progression of certain conditions. Musculoskeletal disorders and psychological problems are among the causes of long-term absenteeism. They say it's better to prevent than cure. The prevention of incapacity for work was one of the driving forces behind my policy. Through various measures, we have achieved an integrated prevention policy. I therefore look forward to the results of several pilot projects on burn-out by the beginning of next year. We must continue to focus on this path to prevent absences due to illness at work. In case of absence due to illness, workers with incapacity for work do not want to resign. People who want to work and are able to do so must be given every opportunity. This is why we have taken measures to reintegrate people through tailor-made reintegration routes, both at the mutual and at the employer level, through the introduction of a simpler and more advantageous system of work during the illness. We note that these reforms have reached their cruising pace. The number of permits to gradually return to work during the illness increases from year to year. There is a clear increase in the number of recycling trips followed by the doctor-counsel of the mutual. The number of invalids continues to increase but, since 2016, it has been slower than before. I really want us to change the paradigm of incapacity for work to capacity for work. The starting point, in this context, is always to see what people can still do and not what they can no longer do. To do so, a constructive attitude and the collaboration of all actors are essential. We have the right to expect efforts in this area from both the healthcare sector, the mutuals, the patients and their employers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u50	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. First of all, I want to tell you that the first people who would like to move from a situation of incapacity for work to a capacity for work are the workers themselves concerned. Unfortunately, the situation in the world of work today does not allow them to do so. I don't know what ivory tower you live in. I had a burn-out myself. If I had had to live my burn-out in the time when I was still working at Aldi's, I would never have been able to return to work. I would simply have been one of the seven out of ten people who follow this reintegration course and who, at the end of the race, are simply dismissed because the boss does not grant them suitable work. Your good intentions, I can hear them well, but if you don't clearly change your paradigm, if you don't stop this double standard, if you don't make the real people responsible for this situation that causes health problems to the workers, namely the bosses, we can't do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u51	Congratulations on your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u52	These questions will be answered by Mrs Marghem, Minister for Energy, Environment and Sustainable Development.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u53	Madam Minister, the current government has increased the electricity bill by hundreds of euros in recent years. That is a problem for many families and especially for those who are already struggling today. Fortunately for them there is the Gas and Electricity Fund. We note, however, that you have not only succeeded in blowing up electricity prices, but also that no funds have been set aside for the benefit of that fund and the people concerned. It's not about a small group, though. One in five Belgians live in energy poverty, cannot pay the bill and must necessarily save on gas, electricity and heating. Those who live in energy poverty can only hope that it will not become too cold or dark too soon. Madam Minister, you can only agree with me that something is not right when electricity bills are rising so rapidly and poverty continues to increase, while funds for the fund are not increasing. However, the fund can ensure that the current government can really have an impact on poverty. Madam Minister, I have just one question for you: today, on the World Day of Resistance to Poverty, we hear how many people are having a hard time and at the end of their money we have a month to bridge. That is why I support the call, the cry for help and the demand of the Platform against Energy Poverty to invest additional resources in the Gas and Electricity Fund. I would very much like to hear from you whether you are prepared to do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u54	Madam Secretary, it is today, 17 October, the World Day of Resistance to Extreme Poverty. Poverty is also a major problem in our country, and that is unacceptable. Combating poverty should be a top priority for all our governments, but it is clearly not now. I would like to zoom in on energy poverty, because that is your competence, Madam Secretary. While Belgium is one of the richest countries in the world, one in five families currently live in energy poverty. You are failing to bring that figure down, quite the contrary. Energy bills have only increased since liberalisation. Under the Michel administration, the bill even increased by more than 60%. Winter's at the door. Many people in poverty are already afraid to see if they will be able to pay for their heating. Will they be able to warm themselves? For them, every day it's thick jersey day. Nor do they know whether they will be able to give their child a warm bath. Washing clothes is not obvious either and that, for Christ's sake, in 2019! Do you think that's normal? To tackle energy poverty, there is the Gas and Electricity Fund. That helps people who have trouble paying their energy bills. However, the problem is that the funding of that fund has been frozen since 2012. Madam Minister, are you prepared to respond to the Platform against Energy Poverty's demand to increase the funds of the Gas and Electricity Fund by EUR 30 million a year, without, of course, raising the bill of the people? I have a very simple question. When will all the people in Belgium finally get an affordable energy bill? When will you accept your responsibility?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u55	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, by royal decree of 14 November 2012, the electricity and gas funds intended for the partial financing of the implementation of the measures were established by the law of 4 September 2002 allocating a mission to the public social welfare centres for the supervision and financial support of the most deprived persons in the field of energy supply, frozen by the previous government for the years 2012, 2013 and 2014 at the level of 1 January 2012. The current government has done the same for the years 2015 to 2019, as the government agreement of October 2014 stipulated that the federal contribution to electricity and natural gas should be revised downwards. That's exactly what you said: we need to find funds and prevent the electricity bill from increasing. I am also sensitive to the analysis of the King Baudouin Foundation saying that it would take 30 million to cover the poverty needs in Belgium. When you know that indexing the federal contribution, which will necessarily increase the electricity bill, will only allow us to reach EUR 5 million, you see that there are a large number of solutions that need to be developed, including perhaps a major regional energy efficiency policy for buildings. Indeed, part of the effort to be made is also to avoid too much electricity being consumed by well regulated sobriety and energy efficiency. Finally, this government has taken the situation into account and has frozen the increase in the social tariff. You must know that Minister Kris Peeters and I have made a decision to freeze the social rate to prevent the structural increase in the electricity bill from impacting protected customers. It is often these clients who are sent to the CPAS and who receive direct assistance. As regards the way in which this government has pursued the policy of freezing the federal contribution to limit the increase in the bill of our fellow citizens, the royal decrees which have been adopted have each time been approved almost unanimously by this Parliament! The Royal Decree which has yet to be approved by this Parliament within the next few days may open a discussion on this point. Be careful! We're in business today. Our financial leeway is therefore limited.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u56	Madam Secretary, you are referring to the decision of a previous government. I would like to point out, however, that it is impossible to compare the two situations. Today, the government's policy has led to an enormous increase in invoices, which means that the need for this fund's intervention is much greater. The previous government reduced the VAT on electricity to 6%. There was a lower invoice and then, of course, there is less need for the funds from that fund. If the fund is frozen today, while the invoice is so much higher, that is an incomparable situation. On a day like today, when we are fighting poverty worldwide, I would have expected a clearer position from you. You have an impact on this, you can do something about it, please do it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u57	Madam Minister, you say that you do not want to lift the freezing of the fund because the invoice could then become higher. You forget to mention that invoices have risen very sharply since 2002. You also say that you have frozen social rates once. However, you have only done so under pressure from public opinion. In addition, social rates had already risen by 10% under this government. Finally, you say that there was unanimity in Parliament and that the KBs were unanimously approved. However, I can now formally inform you that we do not agree with the freezing of the Gas and Electricity Fund. We will never agree to that either. The biggest scandal, however, is that you cannot guarantee the right to energy for many people in poverty, while Electrabel made a profit of EUR 1 billion last year. That's the real shame. As long as you continue to side with Electrabel, not only the Gas and Electricity Fund remains frozen, but also the will of this government to make the fight against poverty a real top priority.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u58	I congratulate you on your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u59	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am particularly concerned – and many of us are – about the rampant precariousness, which is constantly gaining ground all over the world, but also in our country, especially in its most urban poles. This situation requires us to call on our sense of responsibility and our duty to act. Today, however, we see that CPAS, which are supposed to be the ultimate safety nets for people facing insecurity, are more and more broken nets. Of course, all levels of power have a duty of action and responsibility. My colleagues have mentioned, on this particular day, with Mrs Muylle, the challenges of the Federal Plan to Combat Poverty. The Regions must also act. But the effects of the actions implemented by the federal or the Regions will only be tenuous if the local actors who are in direct and permanent contact with the citizens, and from the voluntary sector as well as the public authorities, are caught in the throat. The CPAS today, Minister, are caught in the throat. Over the last five years, the number of beneficiaries of social integration income has exploded: +74%. Expenditure on this social integration income increased by 58%. At the same time, the ONEM reduced its expenditure by 30%, or almost three billion, of which one third was linked to the reduction in unemployment benefits. It would be wrong to take this reduction as a sign of recovery or embitterment of employment. It is above all, as we know, a transfer of burdens from the federal to the local authorities. The CPAS are also subject, by the government to which you belong, to the diet, since from year to year there has been a reduction in social assistance budgets, the water fund, the fuel fund, and the aid for disadvantaged children. Today, only the fact that the communes come to the aid of the CPAS allows them to hold the dracée high. These municipalities are themselves in the process of drawing language because of measures taken at the federal level which affect them, such as the tax shift (more than 330 million less for municipalities), the problem of pensions, the police or relief areas for which the federal government has not paid its dues expected since 2007. I heard your colleague this morning saying that the budget slip is due to the ageing of the population. If there is a predictable event in this country, and it may be the only one, it is the ageing of our population. To what extent are you preparing for further clear cuts in the social security budget, which would again risk affecting CPAS, which the most vulnerable citizens need so much?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u60	Madam Chair, honourable Member, I understand and share your concern. As Minister of Social Integration, this is an important day since today is the World Day for Combating Poverty. But it is on a daily basis – and you know it – that our CPAS are on the front line to reduce poverty and poverty in our country. Like you, I heard Mr. Vaessen's statements that I will meet next week with the CPAS federations. Meetings are held on a monthly basis. Of course, I cannot speak here about the responsibility of the other levels of power, namely the municipalities and the regions. I can only talk to you about what we've done for five years in favour of CPAS. While we are in day-to-day business, I must remind you that it was no less than 375 million euros that were mobilised during this period for integration policies. More than EUR 200 million has been injected to support the staff costs of CPAS. These amounts included a review of these costs, which had not been reviewed since 2007, Mr. Prévot. So we accompanied the CPAS. This is never enough, but we have taken a number of measures such as the increase in RIS, on eight occasions, for families with children. Between the previous government and the Michel government, more than 200 euros were paid to these families. It is true that a number of CPAS are facing great difficulties. But there are also positive developments. For example, in large cities RIS has been increased by only 0.1%. So it's not all negative, even though there's still a lot to do. I share your social concern. The next government will obviously have to deal with a number of issues. As you heard, this morning there is the budget question, there is the question of Brexit. But I call on all the actors who will gather around the table to set up the next government to engage on the social front. There are social needs that need to be addressed. And the CPAS that mobilize on a daily basis to reduce poverty, poverty, will have to be supported by the next government.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u61	Minister, I hear your conclusion in the form of a profession of faith. We are always stronger to plead to the attention of the following what we have not been able to do ourselves. But in this case, I have heard the improvements you think have been made to the situation of CPAS throughout your mandate. Today, although there have been adjustments, they are far less than the funding needs identified by these CPAS, because at the same time, if we have given with one hand, we have resumed with the other, through a series of federal decisions that negatively impact local finances. As you know, all of the Kingdom's communes are now largely undercut. It is very likely, in the light of the evolution or non-evolution of discussions at the federal level, that you will still be a minister for a few months. I would blame you for using the current business argument as a sex cache to justify not acting. If this country was able, in 2011, in day-to-day affairs, to declare war and send F-16s to Libya, it must be able, in day-to-day affairs, to declare war on poverty and act accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u62	Madam President, Madam Minister, today in Belgium, one in five people is at risk of poverty; four in ten single-parent families are facing poverty; four in ten Brussels children are in "deprivation" states. Over the past decade, the number of poor workers has increased by more than 16 per cent. That is the fact that you must share with us, Madam Minister. Poverty cannot be trivialized. For us, this is unacceptable. We must act. You are attending as Minister your first World Day to Fight Poverty. You really have a lot of work to do. And for good reason: the government's record, which you inherit, is catastrophic. Over the past five years, with this government, index jumps, wage moderation, precarious jobs - such as flexijobs and Deliveroo-style platform jobs - the number of poor workers has exploded. Today, 5 per cent of workers are facing poverty. This means that 250,000 people are below the poverty risk line, as they rise every day to go to work. It's your legacy. Minister, one of the main bulwarks against poverty is our social security. Without it, more than four in ten Belgians would face poverty. It is the same social security that the government has constantly detrigued over the last five years and is likely to be no longer funded from 2020. Minister, my questions will be simple. How are you going to correct the shot? What actions are you going to take now to combat poverty?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u63	Madam President, Minister, yesterday was World Bread Day. Tomorrow will be World Champagne Day. What irony! Blocked between these two days, there is World Day for Combating Poverty. Today, associations have come together to make a point. It is that this government has also blocked the fight against poverty between guilt and stigmatization. We know that the fight against poverty is a structural political struggle. We know it's also intergenerational. The poverty rate has been increasing steadily over the past five years. It's a real problem. Over the past five years, it has been an increase of 30,000 people who have had to rely on food banks. Minister, my questions are simple. The Government is committed to raising social benefits to the poverty line. Can you tell us what is actually happening today because we do not see it? And since you have just arrived, Madam Minister, I imagine you have a lot of ideas, desires and enthusiasm to fight against insecurity and poverty. What will be your first measures to combat poverty?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u64	Madam Secretary, in our country, one in six people with an income below the poverty line live. Five percent of Belgians cannot afford the most basic goods and services needed to live decently. And one in eight people lives in a family where no one works or where only once in a while someone works. You know, as I do, that who is exposed to one of these three indicators, or all three together, is at risk of social exclusion and poverty. In our country, 20% of Belgians are in such a situation. One in five Belgians are at risk of poverty and social exclusion. That's a huge number. We note that this number has remained stable for a long time, although we had, and still have, the ambition to reduce the risk of poverty. Today, on the International Day for the Eradication of Poverty, these figures come up again. You know, Madam Secretary, that people are hiding behind all these figures. Behind all these numbers are mothers and fathers. Parents who do not dare to send their children to school because they cannot pay the bills because they cannot pay school books because they cannot even give their children decent food. Families who live in too tight and too damp homes because otherwise it is not affordable. People who delay health costs over and over again because they can't advance the money. These are all poignant situations that have to do with income but that weigh on the lives of those people. People in poverty often have to deal with depression, with fears, because they have to fight day in day out to get by. Therefore, Madam Minister, it is important that we all work together at all levels of policy, municipalities, the Flemish level, the federal level, to tackle this poverty. My question to you is therefore clear. How come the number hasn't gone down yet? What steps can you take to tackle poverty? Which projects are still possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. The International Day for the Eradication of Poverty is a very important day. It is heartening to see the many initiatives being taken today across the country to put the issue on the agenda. I received the various poverty groups this morning and talked to them about the expectations for poverty policy in our country. Something hit me. This morning, an experienced expert told me that living in poverty is a poorly paid full-time job. In doing so, she also pointed out the heavy administrative burden for them today to make all kinds of applications and to participate in the paper mill. What was also very clear from that conversation this morning is that people do not want to be stigmatized. We need to see these people as partners in the fight against poverty, not as culprits who owe it all to themselves and then actually solve it all themselves. I'd like to give you some figures. Three indicators measure poverty. - Income poverty: 16.4 per cent of the population now lives below the poverty line. This represents a slight increase from 15.5% in 2014. - The indicator of serious material deprivation describes the situation of persons who are unable to afford goods or services considered essential to a decent life. This indicator showed a slight decrease for the period 2014 to 2018: from 5.9% to 4.9%. - The very low work intensity indicator increased from 14.6% in 2014 to 12.1% in 2018. The overall risk of poverty over the three indicators remained stable in 2019. However, it is clearly still too high. What we see very clearly in these figures is that there is also a change in the target group. We see above all that today the unemployed, single-parent families, tenants and low-skilled people are more vulnerable, while the elderly have improved globally today. However, it is clear. It has also been put forward here today. Behind the statistics and figures are people. The figures do not send a message to those concerned either. They want out of poverty. It is therefore the policy's responsibility to support them in this. Colleagues, as you have pointed out, poverty is primarily a question of a decent income. There is still a great deal to be done in this area. Let me be clear. In the past legislature, the entire government has taken measures in the area of welfare and tax-shifting and has taken important steps forward. After all, the lowest wages have improved. Benefits have been raised several times, with a priority for benefits to persons with the highest risk of poverty. However, let me make it clear that we are not yet here. Benefits for wage-earners and people with disabilities are still well below the poverty line. The Planning Bureau calculated the cost at the request of my predecessor. For the latter only, this means an increase of EUR 1.2 billion. It is therefore clear that the next government will have to set a course in this respect. Part of the welfare envelope can be used for this purpose. However, more needs to be done. I notice a lot of goodwill today to do that. I also hope that, over the next few weeks and months, we will be able to experience the same goodwill from you at the negotiating table in order to move forward in the area of poverty. But poverty is complex and multidimensional. People must be able to participate fully and humanely in society. The recent Nobel Prize in Economics underlines the importance of the experimental approach to poverty by addressing the people themselves and involving them in solutions. It has also touched me because they have proposed an experimental approach to poverty policy. This was also reflected in the federal approach. Think of the Housing First Project, for example. We have tried to integrate vulnerable homeless people living a large part of their lives on the streets socially. I am also thinking of empowering single women with a living wage in the Miriam projects. In addition, experience experts were also employed in various public administrations. Progress is also needed in this approach. The anti-poverty organisations, to which I spoke today, recalled the importance of the fight against poverty in the fields of education. The use of intermediaries is very useful in schools. Housing and debt issues were also addressed. I am cooperating on the initiative taken by this House. We will discuss the debt issue in detail next month in this Parliament. An evaluation of the third federal poverty reduction plan has also recently been carried out. My administration is working on new proposals for a fourth plan that will guide the period ahead. You are right to say that people in poverty do not have a message on current affairs, do not have a message to another government. That is why we need to look together at how we can focus on strengthening income in order to be able to take a substantial step forward. We have already taken a step forward for older people and we must be able to extend this to young people and single people. The intention should be not to do this alone, but to allow people in poverty to set the course.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u66	Minister, thank you for your answers. You will understand that I am not satisfied. If there is no miracle solution to combat poverty, there are certainly strong measures to be taken, but there are above all political choices to be made. It is not normal for workers today to make a choice between feeding themselves or taking care of themselves, staying at home and having no social life. That is not normal, minister! If we want to eradicate poverty, let's roll back! Let us show enthusiasm! Let's change the deal! Let's raise the minimum wage to 14 euros; let's raise social benefits above the poverty line! Individualizing social rights! You're obviously going to say that you need money. Yes, it costs between 12 and 15 billion euros a year. But today, the tax evasion and fraud, how much does it cost us, minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u67	Madam Minister, thank you. You mentioned social integration income. However, it should still be stated that there is still at least EUR 250 per month missing per beneficiary to enable them to reach the minimum threshold for a decent life! You mentioned the wellness envelope. It must also be noted that she has not kept her promises. You mentioned a figure: 16.4% of the Belgian population are below the poverty line. You're talking about a slight increase. But it's never before seen! This is the main element of this situation. In five years, this rate has increased considerably. One percent is a lot, minister! We can't talk about poverty and precariousness minimizing that kind of figure. Minister, I would like to conclude by saying that poverty is not a fatality, that poverty is simply a consequence of a policy. Political choices can be made. We plead for inclusive, democratic and inclusive political choices!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u68	Madam Minister, you have not been in your current position for so long, but I am pleased to hear that you have heard very quickly from civil society, the organisations working with people in poverty, as well as experts from experience. It is necessary to enter into dialogue. After all, many Members of Parliament do not know what it means to live in poverty. In my view, it is difficult for most people to realise how a family should be maintained with a budget of EUR 1,200. I did experience it as a child, had to experience it, what it means to live in poverty. I've had the bad luck, but maybe also the luck, to experience that, which fortunately not everyone happens. However, I would advise everyone to engage in dialogue with people who know what poverty means. Madam Secretary, you do, you have spoken with experienced experts. The figures "you mentioned the 20%' have remained stable, but we cannot rest, as you said. The aim is not to keep the figures stable, but to eradicate poverty. Every human being in poverty is one too many. The projects you want to launch or continue, including on debt issues, are of great importance. You are also right to point out that there is a need to increase benefits, which will mainly be for a future government. Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to the raising of benefits for persons with disabilities and sick people, I have tabled legislative proposals, which I hope we will be able to discuss and approve in the budget under a forthcoming government.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u69	I made a little mistake. Two colleagues just made their maiden speech. I should like to congratulate Mrs Thémont and Mrs Leroy on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u70	Madam Minister, in February the Group of Ten reached an interprofessional agreement, albeit still obstructing the ABBV. That's too bad. There were, of course, elements in the social agreement that we did not agree with, in so far as they were trying to cut the careers again. This is something that we cannot afford in the long term. However, there were also many positive elements in the agreement. The two positive things, which are in line with the previous question, namely the increase in benefits, the welfare envelope, it is very important that this can be carried out and the increase in minimum wages by 1.1 % for people who are not broad, who are not comfortable. Let us be honest, ladies and gentlemen: that was actually a broad interpretation of what the wage standard law allows in our country to evolve wages. It was allowed with a great deal of sympathy and interpretation to make that happen. It seems, however, that this is not enough. At least one trade union, in particular the ABVV, insists that this cannot be done. I also note that, despite this agreement between the social partners, it seems that there is still no consensus to implement that 1.1 %. Many workers are therefore deprived of the rise of 1.1 % because one union continues to oppose it. That's fairly irresponsible. Several sectors have already concluded collective agreements to increase wages. Can you tell me where the rise of 1.1 % is already being applied? I come to the second part of my question and try not to exceed my speaking time, Madam President. I have read that the two sides of industry are also working on an additional wage increase, which is actually aimed at increasing wages further, which, of course, involves risks to the competitiveness of our companies, and that they want to compensate for this by compensating companies, which, of course, will cost taxpayers money again. Madam Secretary, are you involved in this? Is the government involved in current cases? What will that cost the taxpayer?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u71	Madam President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, 1 594 euros gross per month is the amount of the minimum wage in Belgium; 1 594 euros gross per month to stay in, to eat, to move around, to take care of his family if necessary, to try to free up a little free time, to finance a few leisure activities or even to go on vacation once or twice a year. This amount of €1,594 gross per month is obviously far too little to ensure a decent and dignified quality of life. Yet thousands of workers live in this situation and are affected by this reality in Belgium today. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, raising the minimum wage is a political priority for environmentalists. Far beyond, moreover, interprofessional agreements, with, for example, the revision of the competitiveness law, which was amended by the Michel I government. The Group of Ten discussed a range of proposals. The 1.1% increase had been negotiated in the interprofessional agreements from next November. There is a second 2.4% increase package starting in April next year, which would be offset by premium reductions on the lowest wages. All of this would be accompanied by other conditions. We learned yesterday morning that unfortunately no agreement could be reached and that the discussions are now blocked. Minister, my questions will be quite simple. What do you think of this package of measures which, in our view, is a first step in the right direction? What do you think? What do you intend to do to unblock the situation, to relaunch the social dialogue which is important and above all, so that the most precarious workers can, as of November, have an increase in wages?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the Group of Ten met again to discuss a possible increase in the minimum wage. That meeting also discussed the application of Rule 39b. That article concerns the activation of the part after 30 weeks of the cancellation fee, in order to increase the re-employment opportunities of redundant workers. The social partners agreed to allow certain organisations in the Group of Ten to consult their bodies in order to examine the possibility of a gradual increase in the minimum wage, e.g. an increase of 1.1% in the first stage and an additional increase of 2.4% in the second stage. The social partners will then examine, in accordance with the outcome of the consultation, whether an increase in the minimum wage is possible in a first phase through the conclusion of a collective agreement in the National Labour Council. This increase will also be considered in the context of a possible amendment of Article 39b. I believe that we can expect clarity about this in the near future. As Minister of Employment, I have had several contacts in the last few days with the various heads of the Group of Ten organisations, and I will have them in the next few days. I continue to follow closely the development of this issue. Mr Lachaert, you have also asked which sectors have agreed to the 1.1. We can get you the list. The employers' organisations communicated about this last week. We'll see what happens in the next few days.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u73	Madam Secretary, thank you. The only thing I should like to warn you about is that we used to experience that in the Group of Ten there is a form of insidious decision-making. Eventually, citizens choose us in elections, after which there will be a government. That has been going on for a while now, but hopefully things will go a little faster in the coming period. The government is now in a regime of current affairs, while the Group of Ten does take important decisions on the competitiveness of our companies and the competitiveness of our wages, even if it is with good intentions, namely to give the lowest wages a little more. In so far as the agreement remains within the agreed margins, I have no problem with that and I hope that it can be implemented effectively for anyone who is entitled to it. However, if the agreement goes above that and it brings costs for the taxpayer, then you must be involved, even if the government is in current affairs. We need to know in terms of policy what the agreement will cost, so that we can take it with us to future policies. There are other options. In Flanders we introduced the job bonus. That's also a way to give some credit to the lowest wages. In Flanders it is about 50 euros per month or 600 euros per year. This can also be done in other regions. Where there are parties with good connections to the unions in power, I would advise them to do the same.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u74	Minister, thank you for your answers. You are talking about contacts with the social partners, and that is fundamental. This is a 1.1% increase for the month of November. It is extremely little and we want it to be more. It is essential that this increase be made a reality. There is also a need to continue with ambitious measures that target the lowest wages. For us, the current situation is unsustainable. We need political voluntarism. Let's move here to Parliament. What is on the table of the social partners goes in the right direction, even if it is not enough. Minister, I invite you to voluntarism.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u75	Madam Minister, it was often said that it would be the summit of truth for the Brexit, but now it could really be that far. There is a draft agreement that we still have to look at in detail. It is certain that Belgium, and especially Flanders, will be one of the most affected countries when the United Kingdom leaves the European Union. Madam Secretary, I have a number of specific questions. You know that Europe has provided the European Solidarity Fund and the European Globalisation Fund with a budget of EUR 900 million to offset the most detrimental consequences of the Brexit for our businesses and entrepreneurs. Do you share my view that we will be among the most affected countries and that it is our companies that should be able to make use of these funds? If so, do you agree that the criteria for using them are almost impossible for many of our companies and entrepreneurs? One of these criteria is that, within four months of the departure of the United Kingdom, at least 500 workers must be dismissed. Since our economy is mainly based on SMEs, it is virtually impossible for our companies to meet this. Will you put an adaptation of these criteria on the European negotiating table?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u76	Mrs Van Bossuyt, we all saw the tweet today at 11:34 p.m. in which President Juncker said that a deal had been reached and that both negotiating parties had the will to reach an agreement to avoid a no-deal. I believe that this is positive. The key to converting this agreement into a withdrawal treaty and a political agreement will be mainly in London in the coming days. Time is short. There are still seven working days until 31 October to complete the full ratification process. From the initial comments we can see that the days before Saturday will still be very exciting. In an initial response, President Juncker said that the deal was fair and balanced. I believe that this opens up the possibility of continuing constructively the development of future relations and the possible establishment of a free trade agreement. The withdrawal period will last for 14 months until the end of 2020. Following a joint agreement, this period may also be extended. However, I believe that your concern is also my concern. We must give stability to our companies that are vulnerable to the new market conditions. We must ensure that stability is guaranteed. The Protocol on Ireland and Northern Ireland provides for customs controls to be carried out at the external borders of the island and for Northern Ireland to remain in the customs territory of the United Kingdom. In my view, the Commission has also succeeded in reconciling these two elements. I think this is a good thing. I also think it is important to keep referring to the level playing field. I don't think this is unimportant. Moreover, this applies both to state aid, competition, social and environmental standards, climate-relevant and tax rules as well as to existing EU standards and regulatory frameworks. The federal government will continue to ensure that everything is as well prepared as possible. I suggest you take a look at the site of the FPS Economy. You will find a very clear questionnaire for both companies and individuals. The list contains many concrete questions about, among other things, the export of goods, the opening of a bank account, what to do in the event of illness or what to do as a student at Erasmus in the United Kingdom. The list contains many concrete questions for companies and individuals, taking into account different scenarios. I therefore believe that this is a really good instrument. You may also know our Brexit scan, which is still being used a lot today. This will look at the potential impact on companies at an individual level and what measures can be taken. As far as your specific questions are concerned, you know that we will have to take a number of measures in the government's lap in the coming weeks. However, we are still waiting to see what the next few days will bring. Measures are also in place in the field of employment. In this respect, we have reflected the measures taken during the crisis period 2009-2010, especially for companies facing a temporary drop in the business rate and which are likely to have to proceed to temporary redundancies in that period. We also have measures on economic unemployment for servants, as well as on temporary time credits and reduced working hours. I had received the written introduction to the questions you asked, so I did not know that you would ask this specific question. I would also like to comment on this in committee. These elements will certainly be considered in the government in the coming period. Today we can only arm ourselves as best we can and ensure that we have the measures ready. On Saturday we will see what happens next.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u77	Madam Minister, you mentioned the measures taken at Belgian level. Action is also being taken at European level. Belgium is a net contributor, and I think it is fair that our companies will be able to use it. The Brexit is an important dossier that is on the European table, but also the next multiannual financial plan, which also has an important impact on our economy and our companies. That is why I ask that the general representatives of the state governments be included in the Belgian delegation to the European Council. If we do not, Belgium will actually be sitting at the negotiating table deaf and blind. I would like to refer to what happened four years ago when the Flemish Permanent Representative was able to take part. This is why internal Belgian political problems can be avoided. It is therefore incomprehensible that Prime Minister Michel did not answer the question put by the Flemish Prime Minister. I look forward to your support in organising this in a different way in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u78	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u79	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents, I propose that you refer the following proposal to the Committee on Justice: - the proposal for a law to decriminalise the voluntary termination of pregnancy and to relax the conditions for its use, No. 385/1. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents, I propose that you refer the following legislative proposal to the Justice Commission: - the draft law aimed at eliminating the offence of voluntary termination of pregnancy and at relaxing its conditions of implementation, No. 385/1. This proposal had previously been sent to the Health Committee. This bill was previously sent to the Health Commission. No observation? (No) That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? (No) It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u80	Proposal submitted by: Proposal tabled by: Patrick Dewael.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u81	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (520/1) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (520/1) The discussion of the single article is open. The discussion of the single article has been opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u82	Madam President, the change in the Rules of Procedure will reduce the composition of the advisory committees, particularly Committee P and Committee I, in the current composition of Parliament, which will hopefully also improve efficiency. The debate on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure has taken more time in the Conference of Presidents than in the Rules of Procedure Committee itself. If I say here today that the proposal was adopted unanimously, I have put forward the written report in its entirety. The Chair: Does anyone ask for the floor? Is anyone asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over. No amendments have been tabled or retabled. No amendments were tabled or retabled.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u83	The discussion of the Single Rule is closed. The vote on the proposal to amend the The Rules of Procedure will take place later. The discussion of the single article is closed. The vote on the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure will take place at a later date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u84	You have taken note of the list of proposals that have been requested for consideration in the last agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. If there are no comments on this subject, I shall consider it to be taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider it accepted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u85	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 131 Yes No. 0............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. No Abstentions 0 Abstensions Total 131 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the proposal. This amendment will be published in the Belgian Monitor. The Court therefore accepts the proposal. This amendment will be published in the Belgian Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-17-55-plenair-ip009x.u86	We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, 24 October 2019. We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 24 October 2019. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 24 October 2019 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, October 24, 2019 at 2:15 p.m.
