ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic018x.u1	I would like to thank the Minister for having given time to present an introductory statement on the optimisation of the federal police. I also welcome Professor Bruggeman, President of the Federal Police Council and former Deputy Director of Europol. He will explain the evaluation report. First, the Minister will speak; then Professor Bruggeman will complete the presentation with his PowerPoint presentation, after which questions can be asked.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic018x.u2	Mr President, Mr Professor and President of the Federal Police Council, ladies and gentlemen, the exchange of views is marked by the presentation of the report on the optimisation of the federal police. The detailed explanation of that report will shortly be provided by Professor Bruggeman, Chairman of the Federal Police Council. The Federal Police Council was established in 2001 and consists of 15 representatives of the different police authorities and the police services themselves. The Board shall provide advice on the integrated police and shall evaluate the functioning and organisation. Thus he played an important role in the process that eventually led to the realization of the report. I would also like to thank the other actors who contributed to the report, including the local police, the P Committee, the AIG and the POC Terrorist Attacks. Mr President, honourable Members and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, Article 45 of the Act of 26 March 2014 on measures to optimize the police services provides that an assessment of the functioning of the federal police and, in particular, of the effectiveness of the organisation of the deconcentrated directorates of the administrative and judicial police should be carried out in the last half of 2018. In other words, the period assessed in the report concerns the period 2014-2018 and certain decisions of the government of full authority in 2018, which therefore have consequences in 2019. The Optimization Measures Act 2014 simplified the structure of the federal police, one of whose objectives was to increase the effectiveness of police interventions in the field. The aim was to achieve this on the basis of six objectives, including structural and functional optimisation, launching a debate on key tasks and administrative simplification. Five years after the entry into force of the Act, this report is therefore absolutely necessary in order to answer the question whether the reform process has so far actually contributed to the objectives. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the report you are about to be presented concerns the operation of the federal police. Since our country has an integrated police model, there can always be negotiated interdependence and cross-pollination, with the operation, decisions and choices made by the federal police having an impact on various processes in the local police and vice versa. I would therefore like to invite you to listen carefully to the report and certainly never lose sight of the link with the important local level. I would like to conclude my brief introduction with a word of thanks to the Federal Police Council for its work and its coordination. So I would now like to give the floor to Mr Bruggeman as chairman of the Federal Police Council.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic018x.u3	Thank you, Mr President, Minister, for the invitation. I will try to give as faithfully as possible a synthesis of the written report that you have received and which is the basis for the presentation. Let me briefly outline the history. I think there are some new Members in the Chamber. So it is good for me and for you to give a brief historical overview of what has happened in recent years. In 1998, there was the major reform of police forces, with implementation, progressive, in 2000, 2001 and 2002. The aim was to merge the existing police services – the gendarmerie, the federal police and the local police – into a so-called integrated police force at two levels. After a number of years the organization was questioned. Parliament felt that it was far too complicated. The first reorganisation took place in 2006, strengthening the role of Commissioner General and moving from five to three general managements. There used to be five general managements, including support management. Those two directories have been abolished and reduced to three management boards, simply the judicial board, the administrative board and a third management board with all the support services. The reorganisation has led to a great deal of simplification in the structure. It also created or reduced the number of posts of the Director and of the Executive Director. After that, another interesting report has been produced, which I have here with me, in particular the evaluation report on ten years of police reform. The report has had a great deal of resonance in Parliament during discussions. There are still a number of conclusions and recommendations from this 2009 review that are standing and have not even been implemented. I'll come back to that later. Then came in 2014 the optimization of the federal police. It might be good to know what's behind that. She's limited to the federal police. The local police were not reformed. However, a number of aspects are also of interest to local police. However, this reform was essential about optimization within the federal police. For all purposes, I would like to remind you that there is also a comprehensive Security Framework Note that had not been updated until 2016. It was in 2016 that the government relaunched an optimal, updated version of both the master plan and the national security plan. Normally, these plans, which have a huge impact on the federal police – that's why I mention them – will end at the end of this year. But the government recently decided to extend them for a year, knowing that there is not yet a new government and that we are not sure we have one before the end of the year. I think it's a good measure to extend the federal plans by a year. That kind of perturbs the police zones. You know there are zonal plans in every local police area. We have also tried to bring much more harmony to the deadlines of the Federal Police Council. So now we have a sunny plan that needs to be renewed. Only one or two years later will there be a new framework paper on integrated security and a new national plan. That's a bit of a shame, but the situation is that way. A new national security plan will be put in place by the end of 2020. It is good to look at the extent to which these plans should be brought into line after two years. I would also like to refer to the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Terrorist Attacks. A lot of recommendations were made there with regard to the federal police. Some of them I've included in the evaluation I'm bringing today. In the meantime, you know better than I do, the Monitoring Committee has been set up under the former government. We have now transformed it by giving its tasks partly to the Committee on the Interior and partly to the Committee on Justice. That is why we have just released a note that I am keeping up to date, including an update on the achievements of the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry into Terrorist Attacks. I recognise that this is important because there are many things that overlap. In passing, the Minister referred to Article 44, but in addition to this evaluation, the Federal Police Council makes an annual report on the state of the police as a whole. You haven't, because it's not finished yet. The Federal Police Council has two more meetings this year, in which it will work on updating the state of the police as a whole, including local police. We have already received input from the P Committee for this report, as usual, but we have also received a detailed report from the General Inspection. I will do my utmost to ensure that you get that report before the end of the year. Why should I do my utmost? Firstly, because I have to do so, but secondly, because I hope that there will be talks for a government. If we want to play an advisory role from the Federal Police Council, it would be good that this report and the annual report on the general state of affairs of all police forces in Belgium would be available to you by the end of the year. That is the situation we are now in. I would just like to remind you of the initial intention of the 1998 police reform, and I will soon check with you what I believe was achieved and what was not. That will be a personal touch, but I am pleased to check the intentions of the steps in 1998, 2006 and 2014, which I have just mentioned, in the light of the situation we are in today. Firstly, we wanted more effective cooperation between police forces. It was clear that the tension between the state guard, the judicial police and the municipal police had to be tackled, and the new formula of an integrated police force was hoped to achieve better cooperation. Secondly, the relations of authority were at that time rather sharp, especially with Justice, but the Dutroux case and the relations of authority between the police and the administrative and judicial authorities would also be improved. The third point, the whole information system, is extremely important and remains a focus of attention. You know that intelligence was not or was not transmitted in good time at the time. I am still concerned about the state of the police information system, although many improvements have already been made. I will come back to that later. The Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry has also identified issues relating to the information system. This is a particularly important point because it is essential to avoid making mistakes when making decisions, especially in the case of Justice, but also in the case of Home Affairs and the administrative authorities. We also have the same statute and uniforms in the police services. There is that statute, I sometimes have my doubts about the uniform, but I will come back to that later. They wanted more neighborhood police. I can already say that this has been compromised. It is there, but it has been compromised, partly by terrorist attacks. There was a great deal of appeal at the time to the effectives of the police. They also wanted more efficient detectives and strong local anchoring. Hence the zonal security councils and the instruments that were then created to better set up contacts and cooperation with local authorities and the subjugation to local authorities. The model we have is quite unique. We have no unitary police as in the Netherlands or Denmark. We do not have a single police force like in Denmark and the Netherlands. The latter country is currently questioning the effectiveness of a national police force. Personally, I am in favour of a two-tiered police system: the federal level (intervention) and the local level (police responsibilities). I put a condition in it: such a system must be and must remain integrated. I will comment on this later. I'm going to go over the findings of the report "Ten years of police reform." The main findings were that the local and federal police see each other as one whole. It was said at the time that there was a global vision. That vision was also reflected in the strategies that were there, the National Security Plan and you name it, to generate the control of the police. Men zeiook: "the workforce is sufficient" – zet daar maar een vraagteken bij straks – "to perform an acceptable level of tasks entrusted to it". There would also be a good interaction with the different components of the police. It has been said that there is sufficient common reflection in the area of the bodies responsible for policy and management to aim at the many objectives with reasonable results. However, I have included a large 'but' which we will now deal with. Let's go back to the assignment. On the one hand, there is Article 44. We are forgetting that because at the end of the year there will be an overall evaluation. Now it's about Article 45. It is unique that a legislator decides to evaluate after 5 years. Personally, I have not seen it often before that a legislator decides to carry out a reform and also plans to evaluate it after 5 years. One would evaluate the effectiveness of the organisation and that is immediately the limitation of the message I will bring to you later. It is an evaluation of the functioning of the federal police as a whole, but in particular of the effectiveness of the devolved organisation, of the devolved executives of administrative and judicial police. Why did that happen? Because there was a great deal of tension in the preparation of this law with regard to those devolved managements. I will mention a point. We have the separate system of a DirJud and a DirCo, a judicial and an administrative director in each arrondissement. I don't know any other country in the world that has this. The question then was whether there should be a single director. However, the legislator did not want to do so because they wanted to separate the judicial police from the administrative police in terms of responsibilities. They wanted to reassure the judicial authorities that there was sufficient input and sufficient authority over the judicial police. That was a big discussion point. That is one of the reasons why this evaluation mission was given. They also wanted to see to what extent the DirJud, the DirCo and their services did what the legislator intended. So the report I am presenting to you is limited to that. That is all you can expect from me now, you will get more at the end of the year in the general evaluation of the police, I hope. What methodology have we used? I am going straight to the last point: we do not have an evaluation culture in Belgium. I'm taking advantage of the opportunity to tell you that. I take this opportunity to tell you that we do not have a culture of evaluation. Every time we do an evaluation, we start over. For the evaluation ten years after the police reform, we used a method that we thought was good. Now the Federal Police Council has again used a methodology, but there is no zero measurement. There has also been no mention in advance of how we would measure things in the annual report. I therefore call for a better culture of evaluation, so that you would be informed in a more standardised and structured manner in future, if initiatives are taken at government level. We now come up with an ad hoc report, which is based on the methodology that we think is right to do so. In this respect, we have started by asking the Permanent Commission of Local Police what it thinks about the federal police, in particular the services of the federal police. This led to a fairly critical report, which showed a lot of frustration with the local police, who wanted to say a few things to the federal police. The federal police have also done self-reporting, with an auto-evaluation of where she thought she was standing. Afterwards, the insights of the federal and local police came together in a synthesis note, which I find to be a success in itself. I also presented that note in the report. In addition, we have used other sources, such as reports from the P Committee, reports from the General Inspectorate, reports from the Court of Auditors and so on, which we have also used to write the present report. From the outset, we said that it cannot be just about the local police. There are aspects in the local police that have an impact on the existence and functioning of the federal police. Let me give you an example. If the local police on terrorism does not do things that are expected of her and would like the federal police to do so, or vice versa, if the federal police cannot give enough technical police, then the local police will do so themselves, which means that a certain interaction can exert influence, but that is rather limited in this report, for good reasons. I'm glad we were able to ensure confidentiality. We sent this report to the Minister and then to Parliament. We did not make this report public to avoid media discussions before discussing it here. We will "release" this report after this meeting. We left the first day in Parliament. I'd still like to give you the structure of the report. There's a legal basis in it. We have explained the methodology widely. We have discussed the repeated successive reforms of the federal police in more detail. We've explained how all this came about. Chapter 5 then contains the most important issues: les findings, les conclusions et les orders. That's what this report is about. The report ends with a general decision. Chapter 5 is essential and is divided into several parts: an introduction, findings and conclusions that relate only to the federal police and recommendations that relate to the federal police and the local police. As far as the strategic context is concerned, before coming to the conclusions and recommendations, it is interesting to situate the whole thing well. I shall begin with the institutional aspect. In addition to the optimisation of the police, many other measures had to be taken, which were not foreseen at the time. These measures concerned the institutional and infrastructure of security. For example, the system of passer name registration was not planned. Now the passengers at the airports, and soon also in other places, are registered. This has required capacity and has not yet been taken into account in the police reform. More interesting is the creation and functioning of the National Security Council. In addition, I would like to hold my breath for a while. We now have the National Security Council with two committees, a strategic committee and a coordination committee. In addition, the formula of the local task force was introduced. By arrondissement there is a local task force, which is about coordination on terrorism. In each municipality there is also a LIVC that discusses information management. My question to you is this. This structure was subsequently established, it is an additional policy structure. I personally welcome that, I think that is a good thing. There has been order in the disorder, to make decisions on radicalisation and terrorism. But why don't we also use that structure for other phenomena? If it is good, why are we only using it against terrorism? Some forms of organised crime could be managed with the same model. Then it would be clear to everyone how decisions are made. After all, many decisions are now being taken in different fora; I will come back to that later. There's the local CID meeting. There's all kinds of national consultations. There's the Channel Plan, another plan and another plan. There's the National Security Plan. There's a framework note. If we use this structure, with clear strategic policy-making through the National Security Plan, with the Channel Plan and Power Plan in Antwerp as accompanying plans, as ad hoc plans, it would be much clearer for the police and one can work in a certain well-defined structure. We are now faced with a great deal. I counted it out once. The number of meetings in which the DirCos participate, both at local, district or national level, is phenomenal given the large number of management and decision-making structures. In this connection, I have already made a plea; things have been added after that and of course they have had an influence. In optimization, the focus was mainly on the three directors and on the Commissioner-General, but then the government also imposed significant budgetary savings just in the period of optimization. That was a serious handicap for the whole optimization movement. I will draw a few general conclusions, then turn to the recommendations. Firstly, the devolved structure of the federal police now fits geographically with the arrondissements and provinces. That is a good thing. May I invite you to hold that? It is a good thing that a police structure finds itself in an administrative structure and a judicial structure and that there are no differences in areas, territories, areas of responsibility among others. It has been a very good step that the judicial districts, the DirCos and the FGP cover the same territory. There are still a few small anomalies between them, although that's a wrong word. In Halle-Vilvoorde there is no real DirCo yet. Charleroi has two judicial districts. Those things, which have a political history, are now less relevant. My message here is that there is an agreement on level. That comes back in my decision tree, which I just described. We can put this structure and the National Security Council together and bring it closer together. A second point is that with the optimization the expectations were enormous. They've been reinforced. The then leadership of the federal police has gone around the local police to identify expectations after optimization. It is a good thing to think bottom-up about what is expected from the federal police, but it also creates a lot of expectations in the local police. That now plays a role in the assessment of how it has become. We must also learn not to formulate expectations too ambitiously. Looking at the national security plan, the police, and I also believe the government, have contributed to sometimes too ambitious priorities and too ambitious targets. I believe that much more attention should be paid to the means of doing things. I think this is the lesson that we should take with us to the next national security plan and the following framework note: budgetary realism in the realisation of these plans. The evaluations of the national security plan and the framework paper are already under way. I have heard and read many times now: we did not have the means to do so. I know that there have been limitations, savings, but we need to be more realistic in the design of the plans. Of course, two major cases have been added. First of all, there were the terrorist attacks. Mainly the judicial police, but also the administrative police have suffered greatly from the impact of the attacks. I have been from the Committee on Attacks to the FGP Brussels several times: almost nothing more was done than terrorism. Rightly so, but then we will no longer have the capacity for this other crime. The parquet then often had the problem of who to turn to. The local police, too, did not always have the means to meet this need with its detective services. This has had a huge impact on the functioning and success of the deconcentration in the districts, faced with expectations. I also mention the migration-related problems, but I do not want to exaggerate them, although the police tell me to mention them. Why? I think the police should be able to handle a certain form of new phenomena. We're not going to add police capacity to every phenomenon, are we? However, there must be flexibility in the police and a reserve capacity to cope with new phenomena. That's what we're supposed to expect, isn't it? Migration is therefore mentioned, but do not exaggerate: terrorism is, in my opinion, much more important in terms of its impact on optimization. And, of course, there are budgetary constraints. What I also mention here, and this is also stated in the report, is that the police are having a particularly difficult time following the digitisation of society. There are 101 reasons for that. We have detailed reports on that. It may be that staff have neither the skills nor the skills to do so. Secondly, the markets for buying new machinery, new products and new programs are slow. We're very slow. Thirdly, sometimes people speak for their turn. I'm referring to the file on facial recognition on Zaventem. They start with this, but they have to establish afterwards that the Privacy Commission does not agree. One has to ask the Privacy Commission first. The digitalisation of society must be monitored. You will read reports with me on cybercrime and other matters, where the specialized services are in a difficult position. There was also a large outflow of staff, especially as a result of the retirement wave. A lot of staff have left, just at the time of budgetary savings, which have had a number of consequences. The third point is important here. More generally, it can be concluded that the federal police work in a relatively efficient and efficient manner, including through optimisation – with the exception, however, of a few points requiring improvement and attention. The evaluation confirms that it is not the organizational structure of the federal police that is being challenged. So within the Federal Police Council, no one is arguing for another major reform of the federal police. The aim is to preserve and strengthen the two-tier system and internal reorganisation with optimisation and deconcentration. That is the starting point. By the way, I'm told the federal police are tired of change. There have already been so many reforms that there is a certain...Il y a une certaine fatigue quantum aux réformes successives. However, no one is questioning the structure. What is being called into question is: the means, the structure stratégique, so the policy, the direction and direction, the culture, after all, there are still people in the federal and local police who still do not think sufficiently integrated, while it is necessary to accept and cherish this integration in order to maintain the model and the internal functioning of a number of services. I'm just giving up-to-date figures on the deficit. The budget as a whole, but certainly the staff deficit plays a major role. In the judicial services it is 14.83 % and in the administrative services it is almost 20%. That's a lot. I'll just say these are averages. It is very difficult to justify the deficit in the services that are the highest priority. Why? We have a staff statute that is very rigid. One cannot simply move someone from one pillar to another or from one system to another. It is a question that we will give you at the end, but in terms of flexibility to staff, the statute must be remembered. One cannot continue to direct the police with such a rigid statute. This must, of course, be done in consultation with the trade unions, which will be quite a job. I'm telling you, the deficit here is an average. You have a table in the report that indicates the deficit for each service. The current government, now on-going, has made a lot of efforts to re-launch recruitment to 1,400 people a year. We are now even asking for 1,600 people a year to fight the drain, even to maintain the deficit and, if possible, to improve it. Efforts are being made, but more will have to be done, because if such a deficit is to continue, it will not be good. It is clear that the cohesion between the federal police and the local police, as well as their mutual support, is no longer in line with expectations. For example, the local police state that they do not receive the support they expect from the federal police. Such support may be general support, such as the General Reserve, used at football matches and other events. The local police complains that they do not receive enough support from the federal police in such tasks. It could also be specialized support that needs to be offered, such as the technical police. In this context, the frustration is quite considerable. The support function is very much in the interest. Ik heb al aangegeven dat "Federal police are no longer able to react sufficiently and flexibly". There is little flexibility; there is no reserve and the statute is rigid. Every time a new phenomenon pops up, the police have a hard time surviving that. I do not even mention terrorist attacks, which are a very special phenomenon, where everything has to be removed. I'm not even talking about that. Now I would like to put forward something that we remain and will continue to carry on, namely the separation between DGA and DGJ. The Belgian structure has a separation between the administrative police and the judicial police. I think it will stay that way. That's why different trends play. I know sometimes the Justice Department dreams of a separate judicial police. Certainly the former judicial police are of the opinion that it is better to have a separate judicial police outside the police. I am absolutely against that, just like the Federal Police Council, by the way. We must keep the judicial police within the police. However, in order to give the judicial police a certain independence, two general managements have been created on a administrative level. This means that much too little has happened, and that must be thought and directed in a network. Few activities are purely judicial or purely administrative. When terrorists are arrested and picked up in Molenbeek, it has an administrative component. After all, the people there will be on the streets and react. So the columns must learn to think much more together. That will happen, but there is certainly room for improvement. Many directives that are given in the columns apply only to the columns. However, a great deal has now been done on the arrondissement front to improve coordination between the DirCo and the DirJud, which are also in the columns. We must continue with this attitude. Integration must continue there. If we want to preserve the DirJud and the DirCo, this seems to be the case now, according to what is happening to me; their existence is not questioned; we want to continue with the DirCo and the DirJud, then we must mainly maintain the integration function and cooperation. The hierarchical line must not dominate only in the column. There must be a functional setting that allows cross-responsibility. I'll come to the final remark. A large number of police zones turn back on their own and seek greater independence, partly on the basis of cooperation agreements. That's going on. Whether or not that is desirable and how far that may go, I leave it to your discretion. In my view, however, the autonomy of the local police should not undermine the existence and added value of the federal police. That is why, at the end of my speech, I am defending the view that the federal police should retain certain tasks in a monopoly position. In Belgium, for example, there is a police service, which I do not specify, which could do everything the federal police already do. However, I do not think it is a good thing, as this would completely undermine the model, with several small police forces being able to do virtually nothing and larger services invading the powers of the federal police. I believe that certain phenomena and cases should always be dealt with federally. That's a starting point. So this has to be re-directed. Self-determination is good, it is good that police zones help each other, but the local police cannot replace or exclude the federal police. That is the message we want to convey here. Those are the conclusions, gross Modo. Now I come to the perhaps most important point, the recommendations. Firstly, there is no need for a new reorganisation. In our view, the optimisation model should not be changed, but can be maintained in its present form with the two pillars. Some of the interventions I will explain in a moment, but they are not fundamental. So we are not calling for a revolution, but for an evolution in the current federal police force. Secondly, we believe that the concept of excellent police remains the guiding principle. By this we mean that community-oriented policing, community-oriented police care, local police care of the population, should remain the cradle of the police. Some argue a zero-based policy, a hardening of police culture. However, I believe that we have an interest in the essence of excellent police care, which is community-oriented police care. This also applies to the federal police, as it also has first-line services to monitor, for example, in the stations, on the motorways and in the ports. There is a need for a long-term vision. In fact, I think that the police, forced to do so, have become involved in a short-term vision. There was also no longer any multi-annual budget planning, which resulted in year-to-year work, which makes the cooperation and support guaranteed for the local police quite flou. I believe that the government, together with the police, should think about a long-term vision: where do we want to go with the Belgian police? A document was written on the vision for the police 2025, which I believe can help with this, including, for example, the idea of the networking police. The position of the Commissioner-General needs to be strengthened. It's the third time I've said that. I think the Federal Police Council strongly believes that. In the beginning, when it came to police reform, I wanted to emphasise this clearly here, not to be a state guard anymore. They didn't want a strong commando anymore, apart from politics. I think that was also right, but the role of Commissioner-General has been somewhat watered down. However, I believe that there should be one boss within the police, with clear powers, who can steer where it needs to be. I have also indicated the relevant articles. This does not prevent the possibility of a bottom-up approach, but, under the authority of the ministers, there must be one leadership within the police, responsible and able to steer the police better, faster and stronger. That's also a question from the different police chiefs. The position of the Standing Committee should also be taken into account. I would like to explore this aspect with you. The Standing Committee has acquired a position. We had advised them from the Federal Police Council. We wrote a number of years ago, at optimization, that the Permanent Committee of the Local Police should become part of the Executive Committee of the Federal Police. It won't take long. There is now a coordination committee with the Commissioner-General, in which the Standing Commission systematically participates, with a view to policy-making, but the opposite is a problem. What is the Standing Commission's say on local police? For many members of the local police, the Standing Committee must exercise no authority over their work. I believe that we will have to accept this in one way or another. If we want to ensure the unity of the police, the equality of citizens and the common decisions, then there will have to be a certain enforceability of the decisions, under the authority of the political authorities, namely the Ministers of Justice and Home Affairs, and the Attorney General. Those decisions must be pushed through in the services themselves, because if everyone continues to do what they want, then we will not get there. The Standing Committee is also asking for this, but is looking for the way in which it should be done. It's not easy. Local police elect representatives in the Standing Commission, but what is the Standing Commission's say on local police? Who's gonna guarantee it? I'm making a personal thought now. This is an appeal to the authorities to compensate for the lack of leadership within the police. We have made an inventory of the circulars and recommendations in the committee responsible for investigating the terrorist attacks. Many circulars and directives sometimes replace the lack of authority in the police structure. We need to find a better balance in this. Then there are the mandate holders. We have greatly reduced the number of mandate holders in the federal police. According to some people, only one agent is required for the federal police: he is the Commissioner General. Prior to 2005-06, there were 40 or 50. All of the directors were fairly proxies, with mandates limited by a selection system. We have reduced this fundamentally to the Directors General, the DirCo and the DirJud. There are far fewer agents in the police. This is reflected in the report you get at the end of the year. The temporary nature of these mandates has been reduced. That was a political decision, that one can remain a mandatarian if one gets a proper assessment. Personally, however, I strongly advocate rotation, rotation between local and federal, rotation in the functions. Much more people need to stay in a learning organisation and cooperate with each other. However, that is a discussion which will come back later, and I do not want to burden you with that now. If these mandates are to be discussed, then there must also be career planning. One is related to the other, one cannot do this without a reasonable career plan for the people whose mandate was due to expire. However, I will leave that in the middle. I think the assignments are important. We have installed a mission letter system for each agent. In our opinion, these instructions are sometimes misinterpreted. Indeed, such a letter of order is in fact a personal commitment of the holder of the mandate to his authorities. The Commissioner-General has made one with the Minister. It indicates what the current Commissioner-General is going to do during his policy and where he can be addressed if he says goodbye to that mandate. That's an order letter. I believe that these mandates are a very good tool for getting managers in a joint leadership role. I have already discussed the enhanced role of the coordination committee, with the input of that standing committee. Other than that, there's Justipol. What is Justipol? That is the contribution of the Attorney General at the level of the Commissioner-General. Actually, that was quiet. We have to be honest about that, there were very few meetings with the Attorney General. As part of the Federal Police Council, we spoke with the Attorney General. They agreed that this role should be taken up much more actively, and they are doing so now. If decisions are taken within the federal police which are of a judicial nature, then they will be discussed more systematically at Justipol, in order to give the Attorney General a greater input into decision-making. There are also a number of recommendations. The federal police need to speak with a voice and act. That's important. There have been a lot of confusing situations where components of the federal police are speaking. There may be diversity and autonomy, but it must have some coherence. There should be greater coherence between the DGA and the DGJ. That's what they're working on right now. I believe that there is now a movement between the DGA and the DGJ to promote much more cooperation and coordination. There is also a need for greater coherence between the central services and the arrondissements. There are central services and boroughs. In fact, after the optimisation, the existence and strength of central services were weakened. The question is this: have we not gone too far? Some media say we have gone too far on corruption and cybercrime. This is the time to revisit the balance between central and decentralized services. As a reminder, this is not the subject of our study. In the Parliamentary Committee on Terrorist Attacks, eight criteria have been defined. I quote that only for information. There should also be better cooperation between the first-line services and the local police. I think this is going to happen now, because efforts are being made in this area by the federal police. What does that mean, however? If the road police are patrolling and they're in a certain arrondissement, I think the local DirCo should know about this. One cannot keep this separate. The DGA will ensure better coordination between the first-line services, the other federal police services and the local police. That way, all these services don't have to work separately from each other. I'm also referring to the pursuit with a deadly outcome. It is already difficult enough to achieve some coordination between the various services on the ground. I believe that the DirCo, as well as the DirJud, should be given a stronger position in this respect. We also believe that the federal police with its primary services should be able to carry out its tasks properly. I realize that this is a tough position. I drive a lot of cars, just like you. I never see the road police unless they have an accident to determine. In the Netherlands I can never drive without seeing a policeman on the bike or in the car. Why the highways? Those are the highways of crime, of wandering gangs. If I were a criminal, my first concern would be getting on a highway as fast as possible. But do these first-line services have railway police and airport police the capacity they need? For the airport police, however, it has improved after the terrorist attacks, road police and other first-line services remain a focus. Support tasks must be carried out on a permanent basis. There is even a call for a guaranteed minimum offer for local services. Support services must be guaranteed. That now calls for an evaluation. What will the government do with the resources it gives to the police? What capacity will it give to the federal police to continue to ensure that support? Some wanted to distinguish between general support and specialized support in the local police. We're not okay with that. We must continue to guarantee general support for both components. There is also an absolute need, and this is important to make available and make the best use of the necessary resources, i.e. sufficient capacity in staff and sufficient resources in vehicles, technical equipment, etc. We are talking about competent resources, so we need to think carefully about what resources we need. For example, in the case of staff, is it only general recruitment or also recruitment of specialists? We recommend what will happen now, namely that the recruitment of specialists could have a separate circuit. The use of new technologies in a workable way, supported by good and reasonable legislation, is extremely important, but it must also be democratically accepted. There is, for example, the deployment of ANPR cameras. One can place cameras anywhere, but the question is: when is it a big brother company? Where do we go with technical surveillance? These are fundamental questions that we must continue to ask ourselves. Then we also thought that saving is good for the government, but should we save only on the federal police and not on the local police, as is happening now? The local police keep getting her dotation, which hasn't diminished. The savings are only made with the federal police and that increases the gap between the federal and the local police. Then I put a provocative statement on the table: save also with the local police, then they are in an equal police. I was told that we should not divide the poverty of the police. We're not gonna lose out on local police, are we? Let them be paid and financed as they are now, but also try to get and keep the federal police up to level. That is the message we want to give. There should also be greater flexibility in purchases, in the use of budgets. Efforts have already been made, by the previous and current ministers, together with the financial inspector, to avoid that there would be unused budgets by the end of the year through lengthy procedures, difficult procedures, burden books that are not in order, etc. I'll come to the recruitment and selection. People complain about staff, but the big complaint is that recruitment is taking far too long. Candidates sometimes have to wait a year to find out if they could join the police. That is, of course, far too long. That is a function that is exercised for the entire police. There has been a study to improve and relax that. Soon, I guess. In addition, police education needs to be improved. The government also took initiatives in this area. I told you, we need to think fundamentally about the staff regulations of the police. It's way too rigid. Last but not least, from KUL-norm. This does not appear in this report (and is therefore in green), but is mentioned in the next report at the end of the year. It is increasingly said that the KUL standard, the distribution standard of staff strength, no longer meets the current situation. I notice that my screen is no longer working, so I will continue my speech without the screen. Another recommendation is that central services should work better. One must make a fundamental exercise on how to do that. I believe that DJSOC/Terro, the central service on terrorism, has been optimised. That service works a lot better than it does for the attacks. The question is whether this should also be done with the other central services. What capacity do they need for this? That exercise needs to be made urgently. I refer to the Federal Computer Crime Unit and other entities of interest. The next question is whether the distribution between the judicial and federal entities should be reviewed. You know there's a COL. 2/2002. That's a list of crimes distributed among local and federal services. We discussed this for a long time with the Attorney General. Their opinion is not to change that list but to apply it wisely and to find out who does what on the arrondissement and local level. I think that there will be a moment when that list will have to be re-directed, but then we need to think carefully about it. After all, that has a lot of repercussions. We also advocate an iPolice. A project is in the process of revising and modernising the entire computer system of the police, iPolice. I understand Minister De Crem has signed a document approving planning for that iPolice. That's urgent. For example, we still work with FEDIS and ISLP. So local police and federal police are still using a different system for a police report. What are we doing? We're almost in 2020. This computer-based economy is therefore still a worry child. Fortunately, there are applications of the local police. For example, FOCUS of the Antwerp police is now being rolled out all over the police. Sometimes one can help the other. In any case, we need good technologies and a good computer system. The information system can be improved. I still hear too much that certain information does not flow, that some of the district agent, for example, is not sufficiently contextualized, does not always get where it should be and is not always used. There is therefore a need for sustained efforts. We also advocate the strengthening of certified functions at some levels. These are functions for which specialist training must be followed before performing the function. Let me give you an example for clarification. At the time of the terrorist attacks in Molenbeek, a telephone was read out by an agent who could do something about it. He said the contents of the phone weren't dangerous. Afterwards a specialist came and said that there was a lot in there with regard to Abdeslam. The plea is to appoint quickly certified persons who are well trained and perform well defined tasks. We believe that this should remain the monopoly of the federal police in certain areas. I think it should be said clearly. There are tasks the local police have to do all the time. There are tasks that the federal police must always do, but with sufficient availability and capacity. And then there's an intermediate level, a grey zone with tasks that could do both. This division must be strictly defined and maintained. I have looked at whether or not the objectives of the beginning are fulfilled. There was, for example, the strengthening of the district. Did it come? I don't know. In some areas, yes, but not in others. The feds aren't getting enough. I am referring to the first-line services, such as in stations and airports, which is also a kind of community service. Second of all, has detectives improved? I have to answer yes and no to that too. The police have resources, but the problem of federal police is mainly and largely in the field of detectives: capacity, resources, modern techniques, specialists, etc. So we're gonna have to keep thinking about improving CID. Particular attention should be paid to police policy, with a more unambiguous policy direction and a stronger position for the Standing Commission. Last but no least, the police must have the means to do what they should do. I have a clock at home that I always put at 12 o'clock when I'm writing. Last night, I was wondering if I should put the hands on 5 to 12 or 5 to 12 for the federal police. I put them on a quarter to 12. The federal police are doing good things and are doing reasonably well, but it is time to solve some fundamental problems. These are problems of a budgetary nature, of management, of management and of a common institution, with the pillars to be crossed. Those things need to be dealt with very urgently in order to keep the hands for 12 hours. You're probably getting signals that it's already after 12:00. For example, there are police unions, including Sypol, who regularly send messages that indicate that the quarter past 12 is. I do not think that is justified at the moment. It's almost noon. The federal police must have the budgets, the capacity and the means to do what they have to do. Then we need to put some order in the integrated police system, with ample place for the local police and a proper functioning of the federal police. That should remain the option for the whole.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic018x.u4	Thank you, Professor Bruggeman, for your detailed presentation. Minister, I would like to give the members of the committee the opportunity to ask some questions about the evaluation. Questions were put by Mr Vandenput and a question by Mrs Chanson. We still have a short window of time. I would like to leave as many Members as possible to ask their questions. Can I therefore ask for the questions to be grouped together and kept brief?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic018x.u5	Thank you, Minister, for the explanation. I'll be brief. I have tabled a number of questions, two of which I will highlight. I understand from the cabinet that the answers to the other questions will follow and be distributed. It concerns the abolition of subsidiary aid. The law obliges the federal police to provide operational support, without distinguishing between specialised and subsidiary aid. There is no answer to the question of what specialized aid is or is not. However, the definition of specialised support is essential for the federal police. I have three questions about this. Firstly, can you give a definition of specialized support? What can we understand under subsidiary support? Secondly, Minister, do you share our proposal to provide more support in specialised police services and to minimise subsidiary support? Thirdly, how will mergers of police zones contribute to this? Another question concerns the non-fusioned arrondissements. It was explained that it is a good thing that everyone is active in the same territory. However, there are four arrondissements that do not do so, namely Leuven, Halle-Vilvoorde, Eupen and Walloon Brabant. Firstly, Minister, can you outline the scale increases created by mergers, which will enable the districts to organise themselves better, more efficiently and more effectively? That point has just been raised. Secondly, can you indicate whether a merger is appropriate for those four districts, so that they too can benefit from economies of scale? I'm in the police area of Grapes, bordering on the Vodi police area that includes Tervuren and Bertem. We want to merge, but because the judicial district is different, that is a difficult matter. We must therefore offer a solution, including a scale increase for these districts. Those were my questions. I also have two brief questions. Firstly, you referred to a single leadership for the police and more force for the Commissioner-General, which is indeed a good thing. But what are we supposed to understand under "police leadership"? Today, the Commissioner-General is a colleague of all the police chiefs in the country and has nothing to say. Is it intended that the Commissioner-General will also give part of the leadership to the local chiefs? Secondly, you talked about saving money on the local police zones, which you used to throw some of the bat into the hive. I wouldn't consider that. We are also working on multiannual planning. If these federal donations are dropped, the bill for the cities and municipalities will only be increased, because, of course, a police framework is needed to ensure security. This is another measure which is detrimental to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic018x.u6	Mr Vandenput, I understand that your questions are partly addressed to the Minister and partly to Mr Bruggeman. I suggest we let the Minister speak first.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic018x.u7	Mr Vandenput, your first question was about subsidiary aid. Neither the Law of 7 December 1998 concerning the organisation of the integrated police service nor the explanatory memorandum define the principles of what is specialized or subsidiary aid. This is logical because the implementation of what is specialized aid and what is subsidiary aid has now evolved strongly. The safety picture of 1998 is not the safety picture of 2019. What was considered to be specialized in the field of expertise and the use of resources in 1998 is therefore different from what we see today. I am thinking, for example, of computer crime and the use of telephone resources. The scope of the concepts of specialized and subsidiary support is therefore constantly evaluated in the coordination and consultation platforms of the police as well as those of the judiciary. The possible mergers of or other forms of cooperation between local police zones may also have an impact on this. The synergy between zones can contribute to a different balance in the types of aid applications to the federal police. The wide variation between the zones, both geographically and in terms of staff numbers and resources, means that the expectations of federal police support go from supporting their own basic tasks, for smaller areas that is very often the case, to providing highly specialised support. This is very often the case for larger areas, in urban and peripheral areas. There is no specification between the two types of aid. It's more of a generic thing that's come into being. It may be appropriate to make parameters of what could be considered generic aid and what could be considered subsidiary aid. This will, of course, also have a financial impact. That is one of the reasons why people are reluctant to define this. I believe that a definition of both forms is necessary. In this way we will be able to do the police work at the base even better and we will be able to start the fight against crime even better. Your second question concerns the unfused arrondissements. The arrondissements that have experienced economies of scale have benefited from the introduction of the Arrondissementselijke Informatiekpunt (AIK) of the department responsible for better management of PLIF functionalities, where PLIF stands for Personnel, Logistics, Computers, ICT and Information and Finance, and the implantation of the Intervention Corps (CIK). The benefits stem mainly from the rationalisation of a number of services and from the capacity gains used as a priority for operational activities in the field, which actually applies to all areas of the territory, because, for the sake of a very simple sum, there is more staff capacity when merging. That is as ready as a whistle, but not everyone wants to see it effectively when it comes to mergers. This, of course, leads to better services in a number of areas for the benefit of those who use the services. The reorganisation of the devolved executives of the federal police is carried out in accordance with the territorial division of the judicial districts, in particular the ten provinces and Brussels, Halle-Vilvoorde, Eupen and Charleroi. The appointment of the judicial directors specifically for Halle-Vilvoorde, Eupen and Charleroi takes place in conjunction with the appointment of a prosecutor of the King in each of those parquets. The arrondissements without economies of scale have no reduction in government management and have little scope to strengthen operational effectiveness. These districts do not have their own logistics service centre, but they can use the support of the Logistics Directorate of the General Management of Resources and Information for this purpose. However, the fact that for the arrondissements of Halle-Vilvoorde and Eupen the provincial organisation of the Communication and Information Centre (CIC) constitutes a geographical separation of this service and the Arrondissementselijk Informatiekunt (AIK) does not prevent the AIKs from fulfilling their mission. My answer to your questions may seem a little sterile, but I think that we should at least be able to proceed to the mergers of the areas which also include the area of office of the judicial police or the areas which are competent under the King's Attorney, because that is really in the logic of a uniform police service, which is local but divided over greater territorial application. In other words, in the future we should be able to go to the mergers of police zones covering other judicial districts.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic018x.u8	Thank you, Minister, for the completeness of your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic018x.u9	Mr President, as regards the position of the Commissioner-General. Our proposals have no impact on the management of the local zones. The Commissioner-General is not in charge of the zones, but he is in charge of his three Directors-General. There is an article that states that decisions must be taken by consensus between the Commissioner-General and his three Directors-General. In the absence of consensus, he must turn to the Minister. In our view, this is not a way of running things. At the start of the police reform there was some mistrust and there was a fear that the judicial aspect would not be sufficiently addressed. We believe that the Commissioner-General should be able to give full leadership, but this presupposes that he discusses problems with his Director-General with the relevant ministers. He's accountable for that. Now there is an accountability that is between everything and nothing. I believe that at certain times there must be a clear leadership, in relation to a person. In particular, the Management Committee, but also the Coordination Committee with the local police, should help to prepare the decisions. The consensus formula, whereby the Director-General can also turn to the Minister, and the fact that a political decision is taken without consensus, is far too far-reaching. As regards not spreading savings across local areas. I agree with you that we have thrown a bat into the hive by saying that the government cannot only save at the federal level, because that level will be too weak and the balance will be lost. We are not in favour of reducing resources for the local areas, but of giving sufficient resources to the federal police.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic018x.u10	Mr President, Professor, thank you. I already have a whole series of answers to some of the questions I tabled to the minister. However, I would like to go back to a number of points. On reading this evaluation report, it can be seen that a whole series of priorities for which this evaluation has been initiated have not yet been fully achieved. Professor said, the conclusion is half-tone, with a yes and a no. I note that the police station is still insufficient in relation to its role. It should have been strengthened. There is also evidence that the links between federal and local police forces in the field are not yet satisfactory. Police training is not yet really adapted, with very long waiting times. I've heard things are already going on, and I'm glad. I would also like to emphasize the importance of maintaining a strong spine for the federal police. I think we already have some answers in the various observations that have just been made and the various improvements that still need to be put in place. A chapter of this report is entitled "Views concerning the local police and which have an impact on the functioning and effectiveness of the federal police". I would have liked a chapter devoted to the opposite, that is, federal issues that have an impact on the premises. The minister has just given some answers to my colleague, particularly with regard to the fight against crime. The current means are weak. As a result of restructuring, there are not enough staff in some services. We talked about central services, but there is also a shortage of people on the ground. I'm making the same observation. I drive sometimes. I've never been checked since I got my license. I don't think that's normal. If we cross the border, we're under control at all highway crossings. Minister, my question is going to be very general. In view of this evaluation report, we could discuss and ask much more specific questions. Unfortunately, we do not have time. To answer these different questions, I would like to ask you today: what is your long-term vision? What police do you want for tomorrow? On the basis of this report and the various recommendations that are made, what steps can you take to address the shortcomings in our police today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic018x.u11	Mrs. Song, I have already tried to answer some of your questions during my speech. As far as the operation of certain services is concerned, I am thinking, for example, of the one dealing with motorway controls or other police actions which you insist on, I would not mention a shortage. However, the lack of specialized staff has changed the order of priorities from time to time. We have experienced terrorist attacks, and, as I mentioned, we are facing cybercrime and human trafficking. In the assessment note proposed by the President, he opens up avenues or offers us guidelines which should inspire the work of the next government and the Ministry of the Interior, if this is always a question of financial resources. There are the priorities, and the financial means. The question will be whether, in the next government agreement, we will have the opportunity to have access to additional financial resources. Would you like to add something?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic018x.u12	In the report, you will see that the impact of the federal police deficit on the local police is enormous, especially with regard to the HyCaps. So I can only confirm your request. As the minister says, the question is how the federal police can be empowered.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic018x.u13	Mr President, we are very open and generous with regard to our great love, the Chamber of Representatives, but I think that the questions will now become mainly technical. With the approval of my fellow Members, I suggest that they ask their questions and that I will be delighted to answer them in greater depth next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic018x.u14	Thank you for the suggestion. In fact, I would like to ask the committee whether it agrees that everyone is asking their questions now. A date has been set for a second meeting on which all the answers can be given, but I would like to give all Members the opportunity to ask their questions now. I give the floor to Mrs Ingels.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic018x.u15	Mr President, may I put two more questions to Mr Bruggeman?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic018x.u16	Yes, I do. You can ask questions and they'll be answered next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic018x.u17	But then Mr Bruggeman won't come. Is it Mr Bruggeman or just the minister coming?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic018x.u18	Mr President, (...) very willing to be here next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic018x.u19	Mr Bruggeman, you have talked about the large outflow through the retirement wave, but I think there is something more going on. I think there is also a large outflow because sometimes it is more attractive to work for a local area. We must also pay attention to the flight from the federal to the local police, as far as the outflow is concerned. As far as the influx is concerned, you know that a lot of efforts have been made and are being made, but they sometimes do not ensure that the places are filled out. A lot less people sign up to become policemen or wives. How can we emphasise the attractiveness of the job more? Do you think that certain functions within the federal police, such as experts in money laundering or people in the CICs, should necessarily be exercised by a policeman or woman? Are there certain tasks that we can outsource to civilian personnel, which I do not mean the CALog staff, as it currently exists. Is an extension with specific, well-defined functions a possibility? Secondly, you have just spoken about the CG's accountability. For me, accountability goes hand in hand with a certain freedom. Those who have to manage and be accountable must also be given the tools to do so. Ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the provisional twelfths budget, we have tried to open up this budget somewhat. If, in the middle of the year, a CG, as a good housekeeper, finds in its accounts that staff appropriations have been used up because the mass of wages is too large for the number of months remaining, then we propose that this can be converted smoothly into priority issues, as well as, for example, the purchase of items such as ICT and other materials, without the approval of numerous bodies. So we agree with the accountability if that also means freedom with the tools to carry out business yourself. I would have liked to have heard your views on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic018x.u20	Mr President, allow me to return to the Minister's question to answer the questions next week. We completely disagree with the Minister's request. After all, the first question that is asked here is immediately being avoided by answering that we will come back to it later. We are now in an open debate and we want the questions to be included.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic018x.u21	What question have I already avoided? Is it a question of your own, or are you referring to the questioning in general?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic018x.u22	Mr Minister, the first question that has been asked here, although it is a fairly technical one, has been answered by suggesting that we discuss it further next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic018x.u23	So you are now taking up a question put by Mr Vandenput. I do not have the impression that Mr Vandenput believes that his question has been evaded, nor does it go for your female colleague's question. On the contrary, I have responded to each of the aspects.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic018x.u24	Minister, he is concerned that we want to have the debate now.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic018x.u25	All right, Mr. Colebunders. What do you wish to bring into the debate?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic018x.u26	I also wish to put oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic018x.u27	I don't have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic018x.u28	Mr Colebunders, Members have asked questions in order. It is purely a practical matter. That's why a new date was set.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic018x.u29	Mr President, is it possible to have the floor at some point?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic018x.u30	I give you the floor immediately, Mr. Thiébaut.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic018x.u31	Mr President, I hope that Professor Bruggeman will come back. Indeed, I was already sitting here in 2009, when he had come to present his first report. Therefore, I hope that he will provide answers next week and that I will not have to wait ten years yet, because I may not be sitting at that time. Precisely, I remember this assessment from 2009. I think I'm the last survivor of that time – with you, Professor Bruggeman, of course. With regard to the work you have done, I will ask you a very simple question: ten years later, do you think the recommendations were heard? In fact, if it is issued, it is not in order, then, to repeat an evaluation, to develop new recommendations and to wonder why all this has been used. According to your explanations, I have the impression of a less good connection between the federal and zonal levels. This, in my view, did not appear in your first evaluation in 2009. Therefore, do you not think that bridges between the two structures should be rebuilt? As an example, I have been chairing a police area for some time, and this week I will be chairing the zonal council. This represents, in my view, the place par excellence where all the actors are gathered. In your view, should this council not be required to meet more often, so as to establish more connections with the federal level? You did not mention the famous standard KUL in your report, but in your presentation. Is it not appropriate to re-evaluate it? We've been talking about it for years, because it's really not suited to the realities on the ground anymore. When it states that one neighbourhood agent is required for every 4,000 inhabitants, I can tell you that in Wallonia there are communes of 5,000 inhabitants – communes with ten villages. Clearly, this means that a neighbourhood officer is considered sufficient to manage the community police in ten villages. It's really an ineptitude. Moreover, it is known that the KUL standard is the basis for federal funding of the areas, which considers it to be evidence of the real needs of the local level. In other words, if some municipalities want to hire more agents, it is up to them to finance them. I therefore hope that the other political groups will insist that this standard be reviewed. You also talked about the road police, correctly stating that it was not as visible as it was in our neighbours. I was in Paris yesterday. I've seen more police officers on the highway than in Belgium. I'm not surprised. I am a bore and I see that the road police in the province of Hainaut sometimes boil down to a patrol at night. Yet we are the largest province in Belgium, with a million inhabitants. That's not possible! There is again a funding problem here. At the federal police level, actors also feel that they are underfunded in relation to the allocations to police areas. That's how I feel and what's a little sweaty about your report. But this is not really the case because the areas are also dissatisfied with funding. In the first fiscal year of the previous legislature, the area endowments had not been indexed by saying that, in any case, this would be offset by the wage index jump. But these 2% non-indexing were permanently lost. Therefore, even in our endowments, we know that we are underfunded. Minister, we are told that the implementation of the BAD is difficult, particularly with regard to recruitment. Could you, next week, provide us with an assessment of this implementation? It is also up to us that the Council of Mayors was experiencing operational difficulties, in particular due to a lack of resources from the federal government. Could you clarify that?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic018x.u32	I would like to thank you for the nice summary of the investigation. As Mr Thiébaut said, the first evaluation dates back ten years. CD&V remains strongly behind the deconcentration principle: deconcentration what can and should be kept central. You have said that the whole organisation is tired of reform and that we must take that into account in the next decisions in the next legislature. Mrs Ingels pointed out that capacity remains an Achilles heel. Mr Minister, are there measures in the pipeline to recruit and, above all, maintain additional people? In Bruges, for example, we launched a local campaign a month and a half ago. We guaranteed the people that they could start in Bruges, if they sign up and follow the West Flemish police school. Suddenly more than 200 people went into these vacancies. Isn't that something to think about? Can't that system be rolled out in other places? The current Staff Regulations offer little flexibility, which does not help to recruit people. A new HR concept could bring relief. Do you think that's useful, Minister? Have any steps been taken to this end? It is often a question of mandates. The renewal of a mandate is not a good thing. A mandate is a temporary thing. We should not change it too often. Because of the shortage, the local police, who are sitting on her gums, must join the federal police. We need real solutions. I support Mr Ingels' proposal. If, for example, we lack resources for the purchase of equipment, while there are resources left for manpower, then we could transfer those resources so that they could be used for anything related to security. Perhaps, in the next legislative term, we can find a compromise on the adaptation of the KUL standard, which would take into account, among other things, scale increases, which would make the funds fairer and better distributed? Are you, both of you, open for this? Is that your vision, too? The answer can be given next week.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic018x.u33	Mr President, Minister, Mr Bruggeman, thank you for your explanation. A few questions have already been asked. I won't repeat this. I just had a few more questions. I would like to ask the Minister for an update on the implementation of the recommendations contained in this report. I am thinking in particular of the position of the Commissioner-General. In the committee of inquiry, we have found that the person in charge must also have sufficient strength to function and steer in time if necessary. However, some legislative changes are needed. Moreover, the Minister of Justice must be given a role in this. What is the state of play with regard to the recommendations, especially those concerning the Commissioner-General? The report also refers to the KPMG evaluation. We have still not received that evaluation. Can the committee have access to this so that we can make an informed judgement on this matter? Can we receive that KPMG report before our next meeting? A question has already been asked about the Staff Regulations. I won't repeat them. Mr Bruggeman, on page 29 you are talking about the position of the DirJud and DirCo. We have discussed this for a long time. I read that there is insufficient support for uniting in one person the position of both the DirJud and the DirCO. We all know how important it is for both of us to be able to work together and share information with each other. How am I supposed to read that paragraph? How does this reconcile with the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry? The other questions have already been asked and I will not repeat them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic018x.u34	Mr President, excuse me, but the idea is that every political group can speak. The PS group has already spoken. Can we not, before that, go around all the political groups? This is normally the way things are done, before a second member who wants to take it is given the floor, which is also quite legitimate. In any case, that seems to me to be a good thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic018x.u35	If Mr Senesael agrees, I have no problem with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic018x.u36	Yes, Mr. Chairman, except that we had tabled questions that were not taken up by the secretariat. It has been several weeks since the questions we are sending were included in the various agendas. Now the president decides.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic018x.u37	Mrs Matz has the floor, and then Mr Senesael will have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic018x.u38	Thank you, Minister, and Professor for these very detailed and well-explained presentations. This is not a fixing, but the minister knows that it is often the bottom line of your presentation: I would like to talk again about the funding problems of the federal police. Indeed, many procedures or implementations of decisions cannot be optimally achieved due to a decrease in the federal police budget. That's a fact. Beyond the reduction in this budget, we also find a form of philosophy, which reigned before you were, Mr De Crem, Minister of the Interior. The aim was to give as many missions as possible to the boroughs and to keep a minimum of them at the central level. The intention was commendable because it was a rapprochement of missions and closer to the citizens. However, a number of missions are no longer at a central level. We talked about the road police, but I will take another example, which is quite damaging. This is the OECDFO, responsible for financial and economic crime. For this Office, it was decided that things would be done only at the deconcentrated level. The reason for the absence of a central point was questioned at the time. We know that these investigations go far beyond our borders. How could we have a point of contact to conduct international investigations in this area? It is also known that these bodies bring a lot of money to the federal state. It's obviously an ineptitude. We have always denounced the transfer of certain central missions from the federal state to deconcentrated entities, to the point that the central body ceases to function and ends up being abolished. OECDFO is an important example of the policy that has been followed by your predecessor. In response to a question we asked you last February, you indicated that the federal police had faced a number of recruitment problems. Beyond the length of the proceedings, serious savings in the police budget had been decided – mainly in 2014 – so that the necessary catch-up had become impossible, not to mention that new missions had been assigned. I am thinking, of course, of the fight against terrorism. Minister, what is the importance of the means given to the police? What about recruitment? A colleague spoke of the 1,600 people who were to join the ADB. It is known that this has been relatively complicated. Where are we now? I come to a political question: do you not think that the police budget should be safeguarded against any savings for several years? In this way, we could catch up and ensure the continuation of all missions. These problems lead to friction between federal and local police. The first one is supposed to press the second one. However, it was the opposite that happened. While some police areas believe that they have all the necessary means, it is well known that they have also had to carry out additional tasks. We have denounced this situation. What is the current state of the federal reserve? How has it evolved in recent months? We talked earlier about the importance of relationships in this police force. The professor described an ideal procedure in the event of conflicts. At the time of the signing of the Octopus, I worked with a signatory group and participated very closely in the agreements. The fact that local police and municipalities wanted to maintain their autonomy – we are talking about decentralization rather than deconcentration – was a way of ensuring a form of balance between different counterpowers. At some point, in the event of friction, an arbitrator is required. But on the question of autonomy and decentralization, we insist that the situation in the arbitration procedures to be implemented should continue. Professor, you mentioned a pilot experiment conducted in Antwerp on iPolice. I would like to see whether this experience is likely to be extended to the whole territory. What is the result of this, particularly with regard to the implementation of digital VPs?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic018x.u39	Mr. Chair, Professor Bruggeman, thank you for the presentation of your assessment, clear, structured and realistic. I have retained three elements in your speech. As president of the police zone, like my colleague Thiébaut, I am committed to a two-tiered police force, provided that the system remains integrated and allows optimal communication between the zonal and the federal. Moreover, when there is a lack of cohesion between these two levels, the damage caused can be irremediable. Hence the need for increased recruitment, as proposed in the evaluation report. You also talk about more rotations between the federal and the local. All this leads to considerations of the financial means available to ensure both recruitment and rotation. As the minister has said, it is difficult to engage with a government in day-to-day business. We have put questions. On the basis of Professor Bruggeman's findings, I will tell the minister that the focus of federal police optimization is on strengthening the federal's capacity to support local police. However, many times during the last legislature, local police were mobilized to support the federal level, which was sometimes overtaken by events. This was done in particular on the basis of the HyCap process, which was intended to be strengthened in order to sanction areas that did not transfer the capacity to the federal on its requisition. It is clear that such a reversal of roles is the result of a shortage of personnel at the federal level that places the burden of police capacity on local authorities. It is also known that the municipalities are increasingly required to increase their finances within the area in order to be able to respond to the various missions decided by the zonal council. Minister, in 2018, what was the total volume of local police officers requisitioned under the HyCap mechanism and for which missions? What is the status of the recruitment process to fill the gaping gaps left within the federal police framework by the Michel government? What about the federal reserve today? What is his ability? According to Professor Bruggeman, optimisation should make it possible to strengthen it but also to improve its training. What steps have been taken in this direction, with what results?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic018x.u40	I would just like to point out to colleagues that the answers will be given on Wednesday 23 October. That date is already set.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic018x.u41	Mr President, I would like to return briefly to the situation just now. Ecolo's colleague asks an ideological question and you answer that this committee will have a technical debate on this matter next week and that the questions will then be answered. We also believe that there should be an opportunity to have an ideological debate on the vision today. The general conclusion of your report is somewhat strange. You provide many elements that show that Jambon's policy clashes with the spirit of the Optimization Act. In fact, the report says that the optimization law has not been properly implemented and that Minister Jambon has developed a different vision and has also saved heavily. We have heard many times today that thousands of agents are doing their best to appreciate the local level and to create a police force that stands two feet in reality. It's obvious. We want a police force that is close to the people and that guarantees security. Now the opposite has happened. For us, the police seem to be militarised and there are more and more bigbrother practices. The current policy does not look at the police as your friend, but at the police as a camera lens. Minister, we have a few questions for you, and do you not think that there are fundamental contradictions between the reforms of Jambon and the spirit of the Optimization Act? Have not too much resources been transferred to the ANPR and PNR, so that local operations are made more difficult? I have heard many times here today that there is often a lack of experts to analyse the data. We want more tool-focused searches instead of mass capture. As for the role of the district cop, there wasn't much clarity. I think that at the end of the year, the next evaluation report will provide us with more answers. We saw that in practice the local level has started to support the federal level. What is the impact of this on the opening hours of the local police stations? How big is the area that a district cop has to cover these days? Has it gotten bigger? After all, I understand that these functions have not all been filled out. Why weren't the unions involved in the evaluation? That is our great concern. In our view, Community-oriented police are based on personnel policy, which is at the heart of the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic018x.u42	Mr President, Minister, Mr Bruggeman, we are actively engaged in the merger of police zones. This also means a professionalisation of the zones. Could that help to reduce the federal police's orders? I'm thinking about the presence at football matches or other events. In this way part of the shortage of manpower can already be met. I leave it out of the question whether the police zones should coincide with the relief zones or not. But if you want to go into that, you can certainly do so. You are clearly pro the existing structure of the DirJud and DirCo. You said there should be some sort of mediation role there. I suggest you give it to the governors.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-02-55-commissie-ic018x.u43	Minister, Professor Bruggeman, I would like to thank you in advance for coming to our committee a second time for the answers. Mr Colebunders, to reassure you, there will be plenty of room for debate on police optimisation. I'll give you the date again. On 23 October in the morning, we will take the second part of this evaluation report. Next Wednesday afternoon, the Minister will answer the oral questions.
