ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1076x.u1	Minister, the Law of 24 July 1987 on temporary work, temporary work and the provision of services to users has for many years posed problems for public administrations. Indeed, you are aware that the above-mentioned law must in principle also apply to the public sector. However, Article 48 of the above-mentioned Law provides that: "The King may, for services which do not fall within the scope of the Act of 5 December 1968 on collective labour agreements and joint committees, lay down procedures other than those provided for in Articles 1 and 32 of this Law." The royal decree in question had never been adopted. In practice, Article 31 of the said Law is applied. In this case, it prohibits the provision of workers to third parties, which is also de facto applicable to the public sector. In order to overcome this legal vacuum which has persisted for too many years, it is recommended that public administrations apply the second paragraph of Article 32(1), which allows "to make an agent available to a user for the temporary performance of specialized tasks requiring a special professional qualification".
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1076x.u2	Minister, this situation is embarrassing. I confess that I have been confronted in my commune with such a case. For health reasons, a CPAS staff member could no longer perform his duties in the kitchen of the CPAS. We have therefore intended to detach this person in the commune in order to entrust him with the task of childcare. In other words, we have allowed him to retain a job in the community, while taking into account his health problems. That's why we thought everyone would win this solution. However, it was not possible to implement this, since it is prohibited to second an agent of the CPAS to the communal services. I would therefore like to know whether you are informed of the imbroglio caused by the absence of a royal decree made pursuant to the law of 24 July 1987. Are you considering filling this legal gap, so that different agents can be seconded from one public administration to another?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1076x.u3	Mr Clarinval, I understand your question. I will give all the explanations, but it is somewhat surprising that you are asking this question to the Minister of Employment and not to the Minister responsible for public servants. I will provide you with all the arguments explaining why the content of the royal decree is not yet decided. First of all, it is important to stress that the prohibition on making workers available under the Act of 24 July 1987 applies only to persons employed on the basis of an employment contract; you have already said so. As far as the public sector is concerned, therefore, only contractual staff are subject to this prohibition. Statutory servants are not subject to the prohibition of making available under the Act of 24 July 1987. The provision of statutory staff in the public sector shall be governed exclusively by the rules of the Staff Regulations applicable to it. The prohibition on making available under article 31 of the Act of 24 July 1987 means that an employer is prohibited from lending personnel to a third party who exercises a part of the employer's own employer's authority over such personnel. An exception to this prohibition is granted under the very strict conditions provided for in Article 32 of this Law. One of these conditions is that the Directorate of Social Law Supervision of the Labour Inspectorate gives its prior authorization to make available. Such authorisation shall be granted only after agreement between the user and the trade union delegation of his undertaking, or in the absence of such delegation, between the user and the workers' organisations represented on the joint committee to which the undertaking belongs (Article 32(3)). This latter condition cannot be met if the user is a public authority. Public services are subject to their own trade union status and are generally not subject to a joint committee within the meaning of the Collective Labour Agreements Act. For this reason, article 48 of the Act of 24 July 1987 provides for the possibility, which you mentioned, of setting by royal decree other procedures, conditions and arrangements than those provided for in article 32 of that Act with regard to public services which do not fall within the scope of the Act of 5 December 1968 on collective labour agreements. As you have also mentioned, this Royal Decree has not yet been adopted, so that in the public sector the exception provided for in Article 32 can be invoked only for the temporary performance of specialized tasks requiring a particular professional qualification. This is the only case that applies to the public sector, where authorization of the labour inspectorate is not required. In order to take such a royal order, alternative procedures must be found for the public sector to those applicable in the private sector. This implies the intervention of the Minister of the Public Service, who must consult with public sector unions on this matter. That's the answer. You have stressed the possibility of making a royal order, but for the time being the former and the new Minister of Public Service have not launched specific projects to find a solution in this area. Mr Clarinval, I am ready to discuss how to find a solution as quickly as possible in matters that fall within my competence as Minister responsible for "private" employment. This can be done with the minister responsible for the civil service.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1076x.u4	Minister, I do not fully agree with your answer, since this is a question for contract staff in the public service. For me, it is not up to the Minister of the Public Service to deal with this problem, since we are dealing with contract workers, who are governed by legislation similar to that of private employment. I think it is up to you, as Minister of Employment, and in particular for contract jobs in the public service, to deal with this problem. You're referring to the absence of this royal decree. The Royal Decree has not been adopted since 1987. This royal decree has not existed for more than 30 years. I think this is really a deficiency. When you want to put flexibility in the world of work, allowing a contract employee of a CPAS to go to work as a contract worker in his municipality, this is not a major problem. The only way to allow this exception is a momentary performance of tasks. The problem comes from the word "momentane". I had taken the example of a cook, contractual in a CPAS, who has a back problem, which unfortunately will not resolve suddenly. For purely health reasons, it would be possible to reassign her as a child carer in a free time reception in the municipality. It's not temporary. It's for a long time, maybe even until the end of his career. In this case, this solution is not possible, since it is not momentary. It is necessary to allow a long-term detachment, with filters. I understand that a notice from the Labour Inspectorate must be issued in advance to avoid personnel loans for unfair competition or what I know. I agree that there are filters. But to limit it to a short term, it reduces the possibility for many people to be able to reintegrate into a suitable job. This is a real concern, but I do not think it is up to the Minister of the Public Service to resolve this. I think it's the Minister of Private Employment, because it's about private contractors. I know that there are only a few days left before the end of this Parliament, and I am not mad at you, minister. I hope that this problem can be addressed over the next few years, as the need for this kind of career change will grow.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1076x.u5	Mr Clarinval, as I have already said, I am prepared to find a solution as quickly as possible. Although the administration has not understood your question well, I confirm that my goal is to find a solution with you and the minister as soon as possible. I will take an initiative to resolve this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1076x.u6	Minister, thank you. I will be pleased to participate in this initiative.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1076x.u7	Only Mr. Vercamer is present.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1076x.u8	Mr President, Minister, it is strange that there is little interest in one of the most important decisions to be taken by the government now that there is an agreement. Minister, we must congratulate you and your staff because, as we have understood in the meantime, you have managed to bring all the social partners into line. It is incredibly important that they are all in line, in order to preserve social peace, safeguard purchasing power and implement a number of agreements. The question is very simple, namely a state of affairs on what exactly is being done. What's the deal? How will the social agreement be implemented?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1076x.u9	Mr President, Mr Vercamer, I would like to congratulate you on another occasion. You are right, however, that when there is an agreement, both in Parliament and in the media less attention is paid to it. The good news usually doesn't make the cover. Nevertheless, I would like to give you a brief overview, including the current state of affairs. Originally, the maximum margin for an increase in wages by the Central Council for Business was set at 0.8%, in accordance with the method of calculation laid down in the standard wage law. On 22 February 2019, the Central Council for Business came on the basis of a new calculation with a new maximum wage standard of 1.1 %. That new standard took into account the new inflation prospects since the first calculation. On 26 February 2019, the social partners in the Group of Ten reached a draft interprofessional agreement, including on wage cost development, minimum wages and welfare envelope, as well as on mobility, voluntary overtime, runways and the SWT. On 26 March 2019 it appeared that the socialist trade union rejected the draft interprofessional agreement, which we deeply regretted. In their view, the design of interprofessional agreement was not balanced. The socialist union was mainly talking about minimum wages. We believe that the agreement contained a balanced set of measures, both for the increase in the purchasing power of the people working, but also for those with low benefits through the distribution of the welfare envelope, which, as you know, amounts to EUR 354 million in 2019 and EUR 716 million in 2020. On 27 March 2019 it appeared that the mediation proposal by the Government was not possible or not accepted by the Group of Ten. As laid down in the wage standard law, it is up to the government to lay down the wage standard by royal decree in that case. The necessary initiatives have already been taken to this end. We expect the court decision back from the Council of State. Yesterday there was an electronic Council of Ministers which approved the Royal Decree, which had to be discussed in the Council of Ministers. It has been sent to the Council of State and we hope to get it back very quickly so that we can sign and publish definitively the Royal Decree on the standard of wages. We also received yesterday's letter from the President of the National Labour Council saying that agreement was reached on all collective agreements on the interprofessional agreement which had to be discussed and approved by the National Labour Council. It concerns mobility, voluntary overtime, runways, SWT, and the collective agreement on minimum wages would be signed at a later date. That was agreed within the National Labour Council. The intention is that after we have received the opinion of the Council of State on the wage standard and after the Royal Decree has been published, the collective agreements already initialled will be signed and the Minister for Labour, who is responsible for this purpose, will declare these collective agreements generally binding. Then there is the part about the welfare envelope, for which I also received a unanimous opinion. The necessary steps have been taken to take a number of royal decisions. As far as my jurisdiction is concerned, they're done. There are also other ministers, Minister De Block, Minister Ducarme, Minister Bacquelaine, who have to take initiatives, either through a royal decision or through a draft law, to make that part possible. As I said, we first congratulated the Group of Eight which approved IPA. The ABVV and the FGTB had the wisdom to join the National Labour Council in the eight approved by IPA. The eight then had the wisdom to take a later date for minimum wages. We are very pleased to be able to bring this important dossier to a successful conclusion at the end of this legislature. The circle is complete. We have also started this legislature with an IPA. We're gonna end up with an IPA. I believe that there have been few legislative times in which two IPAs have been brought to a successful conclusion in one legislative term. It's been a long time since we've been able to do this. The good news, however, is very slow and does not have the same envergure as the bad news. However, this must not affect us and we must not allow ourselves to be guided by it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1076x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I can conclude from this that some government partners have a progressive understanding and that the government will implement IPA unanimously? That moving insight is very interesting.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1076x.u11	You understand very well, Mr. Vercamer!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1076x.u12	Minister, there is some uncertainty on the subject about the ceilings for reimbursements, which have been increased from EUR 1 388.40 to EUR 2 549,90 for certain categories. It sometimes happens that a volunteer is active in more than one association. In all such associations, the volunteer may receive a fee, provided that this does not exceed the ceilings laid down in the law. If a volunteer is active both in a sector where the increased cost ceiling applies and in an association where the increased cost ceiling does not apply, what is the ceiling? On the ground, it seems to be not so clear. I give three examples of this. Firstly, a volunteer receives a fee of EUR 1 000 from both associations. In both cases, the maximum cost ceiling is not exceeded. Should that ceiling be checked against the ceiling of EUR 1 388.40 or EUR 2 549,90 per year? Secondly, it may also be possible for a volunteer of an association to receive a fee of EUR 1 000 not covered by the increased ceiling, and for another association to receive a fee of EUR 2 000 under the increased ceiling. This brings us to EUR 3 000. The two ceilings are not exceeded, but what is then called off? Thirdly, a volunteer receives EUR 1 500 in an association that is not covered by the increased ceiling, and in an association that is covered by the raised ceiling EUR 900. In one case, there is an overrun, not in the other. The total is not above the ceiling. Is that allowed? What's a ceiling? It would be good for the people on the ground if this were to be clarified. I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1076x.u13	I am always very pleased that you are looking forward to the answer. Otherwise you wouldn't ask the question, I suspect. You are right to say that, under the voluntary law, the maximum amount of expenses for the volunteer should be reviewed. You are therefore de facto answering your question. If the volunteer provides volunteer work in both a sector where the increased ceiling applies and a sector where the increased ceiling does not apply, the volunteer always has the absolute ceiling for the flat-rate reimbursement of EUR 2 549,90 per year. It goes without saying that income from a sector not subject to the increased ceiling should be limited to the normal amount of the expenses allowance of EUR 1 388.40. Only if the volunteer also carries out an activity in one of the sports, nanny or non-urgent medical transport sectors can the volunteer go up to EUR 2 549.90. I come to your three specific examples where in association A the normal ceiling applies and in association B the raised ceiling. These include sports and babysitters. Firstly, when a volunteer from both associations receives EUR 1 000, there is no problem. The EUR 1 000 in association A is below the threshold of EUR 1 388.40. The absolute ceiling of EUR 2 549,90 is not exceeded by that volunteer. Secondly, if a volunteer of association A receives EUR 1 000 in expenses and also from association B EUR 2 000, he can no longer be considered a volunteer. Indeed, as provided for in Article 11 of the Voluntary Service Act, the absolute threshold of EUR 2 549,90 is exceeded. Thirdly, when the volunteer in association A receives 1 500 euros and in association B 900 euros, he exceeds the annual amount allowed for association A and will not be subject to the voluntary law. Having said that, the intention of the Royal Decree was not to raise the general ceiling of Article 10. Only for the specific sectors can an increased ceiling be allowed, confer Article 1 of the same Royal Decree. The reimbursement of expenses in the other sectors is maintained at a maximum of EUR 1 388.40. Finally, I would like to point out that, on the basis of the actual costs, the flat-rate reimbursement, whether increased or not, may always be exceeded by means of documentary evidence under Article 10 (3) of the Voluntary Act. Mr Vercamer, I hope that this shines some light in the darkness. Should this be considered differently, it will be possible or necessary to re-table it in a subsequent legislative period.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1076x.u14	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. In this way, we can now apply this correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1076x.u15	Minister, this question follows on from the exchange of views we had on January 30 on the very instructive DG People with Disabilities. I am pleased that the dysfunctions of this body that has been known for years are finally getting the full attention of its referring minister. Minister, if your action plan is commendable, it can only be implemented if the operational problems identified by the audit are resolved. What actions are planned to remedy this? Are you going to hire professionals in this area? You announced that transparency would be put back into the DG People with Disabilities. When will the figures be available to the general public again? There's still nothing on the website. The content of the DG's annual activity report was also pointed out for its lightness. Will any instructions be given for the drafting of the 2018 report? The audit described the Disability DG as an institution that is too focused on itself. The Committee recommends that the action plan be implemented at the outset of the needs of the persons concerned. Can you explain how this recommendation was implemented? According to what methodology? Could you provide me with the current and future organization charts, including the new commitments?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1076x.u16	Mrs Schlitz, I'll send you the DG's chart. I hope there is full transparency. The action plan I have presented aims to respond to the recommendations made by the Federal Internal Audit Service, including those relating to the internal working problems of the Disability DG. The implementation of certain actions will be supported by strengthening the management capacity of the administration, in particular through additional recruitment and ad hoc recourse to external expertise. With regard to information on the processing times of applications, it has always been available on the website of DG People with Disabilities. They are accessible from the home page of the site. I will also look at opportunities to improve the information contained in the report on the administration's activities. The audit report recommends that the administration take a more user-centred approach, including by referring to the principle of lean management. Some of the actions provided for in the Action Plan are based on these principles, in particular with regard to the establishment of a quality assurance system and telephone accessibility. As I have already said, I am very pleased to communicate to you in writing the current and future organization chart of the Directorate-General. I have planned to visit administrations in some cities in the near future and personally, in order to make sure that everything is all right and that each of these institutions has understood that certain things need to change. Indeed, as you pointed out, there is an urgent need, especially when we know that there are people with disabilities who must be able to rely on efficient administration.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1076x.u17	Minister, thank you for your answers. I regret somewhat that actions have not been taken more quickly, in particular in terms of transparency and e-mail. In view of the electroshock which the letters of December aroused, it was an opportunity to show a willingness to move forward in this direction. Documents were sent to us, following the committee. I received them after the filing of my question, in PDF format. Unfortunately, some columns were missing - probably a bad framing. If transparency is really to be ensured, the quality of the information that flows must be improved. Moreover, in the area of telephony, a whole part of the calls are not recorded in the statistics. When people with disabilities are called, a busy signal is found directly, which means that the call is not supported by the answering machine. For the time being, these calls are not included in the statistics available to us. In my view, they must also be taken into account in order to be able to assess the extent of the problem and to respond to it with additional means in terms of staff and funding. This aspect is really important, if we want to get back on a healthy footing. Of course, you inherited the situation. There has been a total let go with workers who feel left behind and who are, as described in the audit, sometimes demotivated. I can understand that some people may think that they have been left behind by the government when they are faced with a huge overload of work, with an insistent public, one of the most fragile in our society and who really needs help. All of this really needs to be re-established urgently and on a sound basis. I welcome the actions you are announcing, but the problem really needs to be caught up.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1076x.u18	Mr Minister, from the point of view of the subject, I have been informed of an important problem concerning the availability of SWTs, because the regime may have an impact on supplementary pension capital, for example. What's the problem? The rule is that supplementary pension capital benefits are taxed at a rate of 10 per cent, provided that the person concerned has remained effectively active up to the statutory retirement age. Now that unemployed people in SWT have been required to remain available for the labour market since 1 January 2015, such availability can also be treated as effective activities and SWTs can also benefit from the 10% favor rate, provided they are adjusted. On the other hand, if the person concerned has been granted an exception or exemption from compulsory availability, he is no longer considered to be effectively active and is taxed at 16.5 %. The equivalence also does not apply to those who joined the SWT system before 1 January 2015, as that SWT operator does not need to remain available for the labour market and is not considered to be effective active. Let me give you a concrete example. An SWT'er reported to the VDAB a year before his retirement that he remained available for the labour market. But the VDAB refused to register the person as effectively available because he had to be unavailable. The person in question then had to move heaven and earth to be considered effective for the labour market, otherwise he missed his favor rate. So there is some work to be done here to create some clarity. Is there any possibility, Minister, for those who have been exempted from adequate availability to be made available adapted? Surely it is up to the employee to decide for himself whether he is still available and not to the mediation service?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1076x.u19	Mr Vercamer, we will take further action on this issue. I'll go over the current situation first. The employee who has remained available adapted during his SWT enjoys a tax favor scheme for his supplementary pension capital. He is treated as an employee who has effectively remained active and is therefore taxed at a lower rate. The FPS Finance states that the employee must have remained available for this purpose during the entire period of his SWT. An SWT person may be exempted from appropriate availability on the basis of his or her age or professional history. The precise conditions depend on the specific SWT system under which the employee is covered. An employee may apply for an exemption at any time and may also at any time request that the exemption be terminated. However, this only affects the future. In other words, such an exemption cannot be revoked retroactively. Adapted availability presupposes that the worker is accompanied by the competent regional employment agency and that he must be registered as a job seeker, refuse appropriate work or training and take up an invitation from an institution. It goes without saying that the worker who was exempt from those obligations cannot be regarded as being subject to those obligations retroactively. Therefore, putting an end to the exemption obtained cannot give rise to more favourable tax effects for the employee concerned, since it would not have remained available for the entire period of the SWT. So that's the state of play. However, I agree with you that we need to look at that. When the institution says that age should no longer be available, for example, the person concerned may note that he will lose his tax favor. Another element that needs to be considered is that the exemption may have been granted for a certain period of time, but that one subsequently wants to get rid of it. Finance will then note that there has been no availability throughout the period. Even though one is of good will and wants to remain available, one will be sanctioned as one has not been available the whole period. You have rightly cited these two elements and we must answer them. With Finance, we will also look at how we can respond to this as soon as possible. I have outlined the current situation and the framework and I agree with you that two elements need to be discussed in greater detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1076x.u20	Thank you, Minister. So that's going to be work for the next legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1076x.u21	Question No 28750 by Mr. Van Hees is withdrawn at his request. Question No 28738 by Mrs Schlitz is transformed into a written question. Joined Question No 28758 by Mr. Van Hees is deleted. Without news from Mrs Ben Hamou, her question No 28809 was deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1076x.u22	Mr President, Minister, last year I tabled two written questions, Nos 2411 and 2499, concerning the problem of ambulances/aid workers. These were old questions from April and October 2018. As I know, I did not receive any answers to these written questions, which is why I am now putting them orally with some supplement. I have already asked an oral question on working conditions, to which you replied that the problems were examined by the General Directorate of Supervision of Social Laws. In the meantime, that investigation has been over for a while. In October 2018, the Labour Inspectorate invaded Ambuce Rescue Team, the largest private ambulance service. During this raid many mistakes and amazing facts were discovered. For example, the number of working hours was very high, while payment was made for 38 hours. In the sector, the situation has been sued for a long time. Everyone agrees that there is not enough resources to work properly. Firstly, what are the results of the Labour Inspectorate's invasion and, in particular, what conclusions have been drawn from this? Secondly, is the Labour Inspectorate planning further raids with other ambulance services in the near future? When listening to the sector, people are told that these unacceptable practices are also taking place in other companies. Thirdly, has the outgoing government taken any initiatives or are in the process of combating this abuse and providing more resources?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1076x.u23	Mr President, Mrs Dedry, first of all, we take all the written questions and, of course, the answers to them very seriously. According to my services, the answer to the first question was sent, but the remaining questions had a long lead time. I can assure you that we are very seriously trying to answer all the questions as quickly as possible, including yours. We will continue to consider how it should be possible in the future not to wait so long for information because of the administration. You are entitled to an answer and it is unacceptable that certain deadlines should be exceeded in this respect. I just wanted to underline this in advance. This is my answer to your first question. The investigation into Ambuce Rescue Team is still ongoing. The findings you are referring to in your question were already confirmed during the investigation. The employer was confronted with these findings. The final interviews have now been completed. It is now being calculated whether employees have missed wages and, if so, how much. The inspection hopes to be able to complete the dossier in the next few weeks. That's good news. I come to your second question. In this context, investigations are ongoing and will be launched. In most cases employers were not found willing to regularise the file and a projustiia was prepared and sent to the competent labour audit body. There were findings concerning working time and the correct wage payment. Certain workers also performed the same services as volunteers. Here's to your third question. In the first instance, it is important that labour legislation is respected; that is clear. The above practices are strictly and as a result dealt with by the Department of Monitoring of Social Laws. On the basis of the results of the various studies, it will then be necessary to further examine whether a legislative initiative is appropriate. In any case, I do not think it is appropriate for a company to commit itself to a non-profit association for carrying out the same activities, with the same infrastructure and with the same staff. A possible solution could be to explicitly provide that a non-profit association cannot employ a person as a volunteer if the same person as an employee already carries out similar services on the basis of an employment contract for an undertaking to which that non-profit organisation is closely linked or has links. In this respect, I would like to draw attention to the connection with voluntary legislation, which falls within the competence of my colleague, the Minister for Social Affairs. Your question of providing more resources for ambulance companies, too, unfortunately, or fortunately, as you look at it, is not my responsibility but that of the Minister of Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1076x.u24	Mr Minister, it does indeed take quite a long time. You are saying that perhaps we should close the safety net a little, so that a volunteer at a non-profit association cannot be employed as an employee at the same time in a sister organisation. That seems to me to be a one-finger cut, because that already exists. I work with volunteers a lot. In non-profit organisations it is already the case that we cannot have both statutes. So I can hardly imagine that it would be difficult to regulate this in the same way as regards sister organisations. This would solve a great deal already. We have been in business for a long time now, but such an arrangement, in addition to more resources, should be done very quickly and easily. I will see if I can still get the answers to the unanswered written questions, but I have now received answers, for which I am grateful.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1076x.u25	Question No 28906 by Mr Daerden was withdrawn.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1076x.u26	Minister, the Association for Medical Specialists in Training has a lot of questions about unclear legislation which has a major impact on its specific group. According to the doctors-specialists in training, the legislation is not properly implemented. They say that they have already requested consultations on several occasions, but this is not going to happen at least at the time I tabled this oral question. The association cites the following uncertainties. The definition of a full-time work schedule is somewhat vague and the definition of a part-time work schedule is clearly unclear. The financial conditions attached to waiting services are unclear. The financial conditions attached to additional working time in the context of an opt-out are also unclear. Minister, have you received a request for consultation from the association? Do you intend to receive representatives of the association or have you already heard their desires? Have you taken steps to address the three identified uncertainties? If so, with what timing?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1076x.u27	Ms Dedry, on 2 October 2018 my policy cell had a meeting with the Association for Medical Specialists in Training (VASO). During that interview it was agreed that the VASO would deliver its questions to my policy cell by official means. The latter was done through a letter from the VASO of 19 December 2018. The questions of the VASO were analysed by our administration and this analysis showed that the questions are mainly related to the so-called Colla Act. The Colla Act is in fact a ministerial decree of 30 April 1999, issued at the time by the then Minister of Health and now replaced by the Ministerial Decree of 23 April 2014 issued by Mrs Laurette Onkelinx in her then position as Minister of Health. The working time of doctors in training is governed by the law of 12 December 2010. That law provides that the working time of doctors in training must not exceed 48 hours on average over a reference period of 13 weeks. In addition to these 48 hours, the law allows doctors in training to perform additional 12 hours a week to ensure, among other things, any type of watchkeeping at the workplace, which is done on the basis of an individual agreement of the employee. This additional 12 hours a week must be the subject of an additional wage, on top of the basic wage. The law provides that the King may establish that supplementary salary by a decision of the Council of Ministers after the opinion of the National Joint Committee on Medicine-Hospitals set up by Article 1 of Royal Decree No. 47 of 24 October 1967. The conditions governing the basic salary of doctors in training and the supplementary salary for the 12 additional hours are thus determined on the basis of social consultations held in the National Joint Committee on Medicine and Hospitals, which belongs to the area of competence of the Minister for Health. The VASO's question concerning the practical implementation of the possibility of organising part-time medical specialist training is essentially about how to implement the Ministerial Decision of 6 October 2017 which amended the above mentioned Ministerial Decision of 30 April 2014. Both ministerial decisions were issued by the Minister for Health. I therefore raised the questions of the VASO with my colleague Maggie De Block asking him to investigate them further and to give him an appropriate response. I've briefed the VASO on that, too. So I think I have done what I can in this respect, taking into account the powers I have.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1076x.u28	In any case, Minister, it is very positive that you have received the VASO and also given an answer. I received her memorandum a few days ago. Everyone's sending memos and reading. I suspect that the ambiguity the VASO is talking about all the time has a lot to do with practice, especially with differences between internships and hospitals in practice. However, there is not enough clarity, given the complaints that we are getting and which can affect the quality of care. Apart from this question, I would like to take advantage of my speaking time to thank you, Minister, for the compromise on care, with which we will be landing this afternoon, and in which you have responded to my question. It's totally beside the issue and it's close, but we got there anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1076x.u29	The keeper wins.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1076x.u30	The keeper wins. Mr Clarinval will, by the way, be the first signatory to the bill, which I have given him. I would have liked your reply in writing, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1076x.u31	Mrs. Dedry, it's never too late to say thank you. This is indeed a good compromise that is coming to an end.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1076x.u32	Joined Questions Nos 29050 and 29052 by Mr Hedebouw and 29052 by Mr Hedebouw Van Hees are transformed into written questions. Question No 29177 by Mrs Pas is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1076x.u33	Minister, the allocation of loyalty stamps is specific to the construction sector and is currently governed by the collective agreement of 13 September 2007. Loyalty stamps are taxed in the context of personal tax but are not subject to a professional discount or social contributions. The Office Patronal d'Organisation et de Control des Systèmes de Sécurité d'existence (OPOC) collects the contribution to finance the benefit. OPOC is therefore working on order and on behalf of the Life Security Fund. The loyalty stamp scheme is part of the minimum working conditions laid down in the collective labour agreement which foreign companies, which second staff in Belgium to carry out construction work, must also comply with. The principles of European law and case law confirm this obligation but also provide for a relaxation of this regime. In certain circumstances, foreign employers established in one of the Member States of the European Union and workers temporarily employed in Belgium may benefit from this relaxation. The condition for this is that an advantage comparable to that of loyalty stamps be granted to these workers for the period of their occupation in Belgium. Mr Minister, a monitoring procedure applies to Belgian construction companies with regard to stamp fees, but I note some discrepancies in this monitoring procedure. In fact, Belgian construction companies must actually comply with a control procedure, while foreign companies are derogating from it. Mr Minister, why does this control procedure not apply to all Belgian and foreign construction companies? Why are not all companies housed in the same brand in terms of control? This situation is unfair competition for me. I believe that an initiative should be taken to better impose on all this stamp allocation and to ensure uniform control of all companies active in the Belgian market, including foreign companies.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1076x.u34	Mr Clarinval, my answer is in four pages. If you agree, I can pass it on to you and read you only the conclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1076x.u35	I agree, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1076x.u36	Mr Clarinval, the conclusion is very clear. I should like to inform you that, in the context of the implementation of the plan for fair competition, the necessary measures have been taken to make it more mandatory for foreign companies to comply with their obligations with regard to loyalty stamps. To support this conclusion, I have many figures which also indicate that you are right. We have adopted an action plan to avoid unfair competition. Like you, I hope that with the plan and the measures now decided, we can make sure that with respect for the level playing field and the problems of foreign companies, we will have taken a step forward, as you ask.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1076x.u37	Minister, I will read the four pages with interest. Indeed, I had seen that this policy was mentioned in the plan, but I did not know that it was already implemented. I therefore hope that this measure has been put in place to put an end to real unfair competition for Belgian construction companies that comply with the rules. In any case, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-03-54-commissie-ic1076x.u38	I'm closing this session. I think this will probably be the last question-and-answer session under this Parliament for the Minister of Employment. Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no more of us, but the best of us are here! I wish I could see you again in a few months. I would also like to thank the services, the translators and all the people who have made it possible for the work in this committee to proceed smoothly. You never say it enough.
