ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u1	Madam Minister, the subject of my question is important for 65-plussers. We are not all yet, but that stage is approaching for some of us. She's approaching for everyone, but some are a little further away than others. My question is about the high suicide rates in the elderly. You know as well as I do that the main risk group is developing suicidal thoughts. On the occasion of the World Suicide Prevention Day, the Flemish Elder Council again called the alarm bell. More than one in three suicides are sixty-five-plus. You know as well as I do that this category cannot yet claim mobile crisis management. That crisis management is only there for 18- to sixty-four-year-olds. Also, the Spiritual Health Networks have no means of opening their mobile crisis service to sixty-five people. Crisis teams, the word itself, are teams that are available 24 hours a day and 7 days a day for urgent psychological interventions, often in high-risk situations of suicide. The group of sixty-five plus-five can also not claim reimbursement for psychological assistance you have introduced in recent years. However, this psychological aid is also an important means of preventing suicide. The Flemish Elder Council therefore urgently asks in a press release of some time ago to implement the recommendations of the Federal Knowledge Centre for Health Care, especially with regard to the general mental health care of elderly people. Those recommendations date back to March 2018. The Flemish Elder Council also asks for crisis management to be opened to older people. The sixty-five-year-olds are now, as it were, de facto discriminated against in terms of mental health care. The only option that patients and their environment now have is inclusion in an institution. That's not what we want. Madam Secretary, I come to my questions. Firstly, what is the state of play in transposing the recommendations of the Federal Knowledge Centre for Health Care on the general mental health care of the elderly? What recommendations have already been implemented and which have not? Why, or why not? Secondly, you know Rule 107 very well. Are you willing to expand and strengthen the mobile psychiatric service so that older people can also receive help in their home environment? Thirdly, has there been an evaluation of the reimbursement of psychological aid that you introduced some time ago? Is it being considered whether there will be an extension to the elderly, given that the resources available are not exhausted and the needs of the elderly are high?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u2	Mr President, Mr Bertels, it was indeed established in 2014 that the so-called Article 107 networks with the mobile teams active in them were geared only to the 18- to sixty-five-year-olds. The choice to limit this was motivated by the fact that the innovation was so large for both the government and the sector that it was chosen to work in feasible steps. There are other networks for the under-eighten-year-olds, but there is nothing for the over-sixty-five. I have come to explain this decision to the Elder Council, adding that I do not want networks for sixty-five people, but that I want to remove the gap in terms of age. Psychological problems do not just stop at sixty-five years. We have continued to work on a large-scale reform on three tracks. Firstly, there is the interpretation of the white spots in Article 107 networks. This concerned two Flemish, two Walloon and a large area of the Brussels-Capital Region where there was nothing yet. There was also the sensitive expansion of mobile teams throughout the country. The number has increased from 500 full-time equivalents to 800. So we were given the opportunity to involve more people in crisis situations or in long-term home guidance. We are also taking the first steps in the so-called function four that stands for intensified care in hospitals. A number of psychiatric hospitals are starting this year with such a renewal operation. The idea seems simple, but is not that in the execution about more hands around a bed and more time for the patient. In the next legislative term, these networks should be extended for the population over 65 years of age. The Knowledge Centre gives the same recommendations in its study. The Inter-Ministerial Conference took this to heart and set up a specific working group with the obvious actors in mental health care, geriatrics, general practitioners, representatives of rest and nursing homes and representatives of psychiatric care homes. Such a tilt requires proper preparation, not least for the continuity of care for the patient. The aim of this working group is, among other things, the expansion of mobile teams. Of course, new budgets will have to be provided for this. I included that in my care plan. During the election period, I raised the need for more money for psychiatric care in every political group. We come from the amount of zero that was previously earmarked for this purpose, including in primary care. I hope that this evolution will continue after the negotiations conducted by the informant, Mr Magnette, no matter who is at the table. In 2014, the government agreement stated that a reimbursement of psychological care would be investigated. I wasn't satisfied with that. Then I've taken the liberty of moving on. That was very difficult, because if the government agreement does not say that money will be allocated, then there will never be any talk of a budget. I have managed to obtain a limited budget of EUR 22.5 million. I share the view of many that the next coalition agreement should be more ambitious than that. Nevertheless, we have crossed a bit of the Rubicon there. The reimbursement of clinical psychological care in the first line has developed and a budget has been set aside for this. It is true that it is in line with the population covered by Article 107 networks. Because those networks already exist and work well, we have the little money we had injected into them. The story is indeed not finished. The children and young people have their own networks, but the sixty-five-plussers fall out of the boat in primary care. The Elder Council has thus come out in the run-up to new negotiations. I hope that this important element will be taken up by the next government.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u3	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. If we could both facilitate Mr Magnette's information mission in the field of mental health care for the elderly, we would still be able to do so. For mental health care, things have happened in recent years, albeit somewhat late. Nevertheless, the problem remains that all initiatives have been taken since 2010, that it is now ten years later and that there is still a problem for the six-six-six-year-olds. It's even a big problem that's vital to them. I agree with you that we should not create a separate new network, as you call it. Let us remove the 65-year gap as a criterion. Anyone who needs mental health care and suicide prevention must also be able to meet this need, regardless of age. I agree with you that the next government agreement, which we hope will be soon, should include an extension of mobile crisis teams or mobile teams in general, including for the sixty-five year olds. There should also be an extension for the reimbursement to the sixty-five year olds of the visit to a psychologist. We agree on these two points. They are absolutely important. Our society can no longer afford to leave six-five-year-olds completely in the cold and not to offer them mental health care and suicide prevention. The figures and also the Flemish Elder Council show that the care, acquisition and provision of care under accessible conditions is often of vital importance for the elderly. Our society must fully assume its role in this area and ensure that the 60-six-six-six-year-olds also have access to mental health care.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u4	We started on time. A number of Members have not yet been present. I therefore propose that they be left for the time being and that their questions should not be deleted immediately. Mrs Van Peel, Mrs Tillieux, Mrs Fonck and Mrs Van Camp are not present. Mrs Jiroflée has indicated that she will be a little later, probably for the sake of public transport.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u5	Mr President, I do not care to wait until our colleagues are present.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u6	All right, then we will first deal with Mrs Depoorter's question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u7	Madam Minister, dexamphetamine sulphate is a preparation prescribed for the treatment of ADHD and has not been available in the wholesale trade for a long time this summer. There was also no substitute available and since it is a narcotic, the Belgian pharmacists could not import it as a raw material either. Dexamphetamine sulphate, as I said, is subject to prescription and is also on the list of narcotics. However, at the advice of their doctor, a number of Belgian patients can proceed to an order via an online pharmacy platform from the Netherlands on request. They were only required to scan the prescription for this, for the rest there was no control whatsoever, and the patient was given the medication at home. Worse still, he also received a report from the pharmacy that, if he needed the medicine more often or frequently, which is obviously the case, because it is a chronic treatment, he could, on simple request, have a box delivered each month in his mailbox. I have the following questions for you, Madam Secretary. How is it possible that a narcotic can be traded on the Internet so easily? The pharmacy that supplies such medication must comply with all kinds of checks and registration, while the medicine in this case was simply imported through an online pharmacy abroad. After delivery a continuity was proposed by the pharmacy to the patient. Are you still aware of such cases which, I would like to stress, are still dangerous? Eventually, the delivery of dexamphetamine sulphate at home by that Dutch pharmacy has stopped after a comment from the pharmaceutical inspection, but the patients have been informed that they can pick up the medicine perfectly in a Dutch pharmacy. How is the control of narcotics in our country going?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u8	Mrs. Depoorter, this is and remains an illegal practice. As for your first question, in this case, the products were not offered for sale on the internet. The pharmacy in question was approached directly and the products were sent to the patient on the basis of a prescription. This is not allowed, either in accordance with Belgian or Dutch legislation, since it is a psychotropic substance. However, the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products has no authority to control Dutch pharmacies. They can only detect infringements and then inform the Dutch Ministry of Health, Welfare and Sport, and that is what happened in this case. In reply to your second question, my services reported to the FAGG that no other cases of such practices have so far been known in Belgium. In reply to your third question, I can tell you that the dossier currently under discussion is being dealt with by the FAGG's special research unit. This means that routine checks of postal packages are carried out by this special investigation unit, in cooperation with various courier services and customs. In fact, the dossier in question came to light during one of these checks. In the future, such packages will always be seized in the event of detected infringements. In the past, has the FAGG informed the users of medicines on a number of occasions through information campaigns such as medicines on the Internet? Do not surf with your health and A medicine is not a candy. In addition, the FAGG wishes to note that the pharmaceutical raw material dexamphetamine sulphate was unavailable for a short period of time but has been available since the end of August. In the meantime, the risk of a subsequent unavailability has been reduced, as other companies also have a licence for this pharmaceutical raw material so that, in the event of unavailability, supplies from a particular producer can still be made through other producers. Hopefully this will not repeat illegal activities abroad. This is, of course, also the responsibility of the pharmacist himself. Encouraging illegal practices does not seem to me to be directly part of a pharmacist's remit. I hope we can agree on that in advance.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u9	We certainly agree on the latter, Madam Secretary. It is not the pharmacist who recommended this. It is on the recommendation of the prescribing doctor that the patient has gone to the pharmacy in the Netherlands. I didn't hear anything about that in your reply. However, this is a very clear concern expressed by the sector. It's about right-wing amphetamine. We are talking about a very heavy substance. There is no question of the originality of the prescription and the doctor gives the patient the opportunity to participate in these illegal practices. I believe that this is a dossier that cannot be dealt with at any time. On the contrary, your services should take a very close look at this incident, because it does not seem to me to be the first time that drugs are traded on the Internet. Moreover, if it happens on the advice of a doctor, I think we are really wrong.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u10	What concerns the pharmacist involved certainly also applies to the prescriber. We know the top five of the drugs delivered through the postal or courier services. Those aren't medications without side effects. Therefore, these actions were set up by the FAGG, with the courier services and in cooperation with customs. We intercept a lot. Everything is confiscated, which in itself will lead to a reduction in the use of the Internet to touch those resources.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u11	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55000095C, 55000101C, 55000161C, 55000662C and 55000825C by Mrs Van Peel are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u12	Madam Secretary, cancer patients and people with anodontics will soon no longer have to pay for expensive restorative dental care, such as implants, bridges or crowns. That is a very good thing and we welcome it. However, can it not be extended to all chronically ill patients? At the end of 2017, the Flemish Patient Platform organised a survey with its member associations on dental care, which showed that a lot of people suffer from a chronic condition with dental problems. It is not just about people with cancer, but also about people with epilepsy, diabetes or connective tissue disease. Of the people who participated in the survey, 51 % experience a higher need for preventive dental care due to his condition: 34% have damaged teeth due to his condition, while 23 % have damaged teeth due to his treatment and 51 % have lost teeth due to his condition. Those figures underline the importance of extending the reimbursement of restorative dental care to all people with chronic illness. Madam Secretary, do you agree with the proposal and will you, therefore, open the refund to all chronically ill people? What budgets are already earmarked for the reimbursement of dental care for cancer patients and people with anodontics? What budgets will you make available to allow all chronically ill people to benefit from the measure?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u13	Mrs. Sneppe, you're developing an interesting slope in your first question. The Technical Dental Council held many working group meetings with different partners to develop this measure for cancer patients and for people without teeth or anodontics. An extension to all chronically ill should first be discussed in that council. If he develops proposals to that effect, they may be considered. It is true to say what additional resources would be needed for this. A proposal should also fit in with the aim of quality care and evidence-based, without compromising the sustainability and affordability of insurance. That is why we have chosen to take some first steps. These include patients with cancer treatment as well as those who no longer have a fixed tooth in the mouth for any cause. The latter are then fitted with 4 anchor points so that one can build up a prosthesis again. The annual budget for this measure is EUR 3.94 million. Finally, you ask how much it would cost to extend the measure to all chronically ill people. That's supposed to be calculated by the Technical Dental Council. This also depends, of course, on the overall budgetary context. We cannot figure that out ourselves, because it is quite technical data. That may not be a problem for the Council, since it also calculated exactly the previous enlargement measure. Then, of course, we must also find the necessary money.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u14	Madam Secretary, thank you for the explanation. I understand that you support the proposal. I hope that the technical council can meet in the near future to address the problem. The biggest pain is, of course, finding the necessary money.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u15	Mr President, Madam Minister, I would like to draw attention here to blood transfusion facilities. In the question that has been forwarded to you, I would like to remind you of the various legislations. This is a major issue with a system of organisation of efficient and safe transfusion activity, which guarantees the quality of the products and is based on competent professionals and a strictly regulated and controlled framework. However, it must be noted that blood transfusion facilities are facing relatively serious problems today. Indeed, in view of legitimate requirements that only increase and the obligation for these establishments to ensure supply and never to be out of stock, the gap is only widening due to financing that has only been increased and the costs that have been greatly increased in recent years. As a result, there is an increasing imbalance between funding and requirements, which could have a significant impact on the patient as this could undermine all issues related to transfusion activity. Transfusion establishments therefore demand a raise in the blood price. They propose different formulas which I will not mention here. But I would like to know your position on this. You can't ignore this request to raise the blood price. What is your response to this request? Have there been any meetings? If not, would you agree to think quickly with blood transfusion facilities? This is obviously a major public health issue. Who says harming blood establishments, says harming transfusions for patients and caregivers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u16	Mr President, Mrs Fonck, this question has already been asked at the committee meeting on 22 October. She was then attached to a question by Mr. Hervé Rigot. On that occasion, I had responded very comprehensively. I have the answer here. However, in the meantime, at the request of the Red Cross, extensive consultation has taken place between the above-mentioned institutions and the Federal Agency for Drugs and Health Products in order to meet the needs of the ground without compromising the safety of donors and recipients. I have in my reply all the measures taken. May I give you my written answer? According to the Regulations, this matter should be removed. It was in the end, Mr. Prévot was there. Do you remember? He's been here for a long time. I gave him the answers to all his questions. That was a joint question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u17	Mr President, I would like the following to appear in the report. I want to hear a lot of things, but, minister, the facts are the facts. On the government side, your firm has decided to include issues that were not of the same order at all. It's not because we're talking about transfusion that we're talking about the same thing. On the one hand, we are talking about the situation of transfusion establishments and the price of blood. These are the subjects that have been the subject of my question. On the other hand, Mr Prévot's question, which he reminded me of and which we had discussed at that time, had nothing to do with it. The only common subject was transfusion. Mr. Prévot spoke of the donation of blood by homosexuals and the rules of that donation. Parliament remains in charge of its work. That you give me the answer here, rather than rereading it, is no problem to me. On the other hand, Mr President, I stress that combinations of questions should not be decided by ministers, but by you or by you. There was no common subject here. These were issues of an extremely different nature. That's why, Mr. President, they were separated. We can stay there, but in the future I propose that we avoid falling into this little game that prevents us from really discussing issues that are extremely important.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u18	We will be more attentive to that. I'll take care of it. I'll go through the questions to avoid bad surprises. The firm has to keep an eye on it, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u19	Madam Minister, on the electronic referral letter from the general practitioners, the hospital ombudsmen noted that after a telephone referral from the general practitioner to the emergency services, the patient paid a higher brake charge for his treatment in the emergency services. Madam Secretary, is it possible to organise an electronic referral of the general practitioner to the emergency services? This means that the reduced brake fee is guaranteed for the patient. Ultimately, the electronic referral letter was introduced to ensure affordable care for patients. Can the electronic referral be linked to the electronic patient file?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u20	Mrs Depoorter, that was short and concise.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u21	Mr President, I will try to be brief and concise. Madam Minister, the GP is the first point of contact and should remain so when it comes to health. Patients are therefore encouraged to consult the general practitioner first, before consulting a physician-specialist, the referral function. The patient also receives an increased refund, usually of 5 euros, of the consultation with the specialist if the patient was referred to by the GP. The referral takes place in principle with a letter of referral, i.e. in paper form, and the referring general practitioner of course keeps the overall medical record of the patient in custody. From the field there are echoes of the fact that the practice of the referral letter is very little used by general practitioners, since they are rightly digitized, which way of working is often promoted. Some hospitals do not even accept a letter on paper anymore, contrary to what is still required by current legislation. Sometimes referrals also happen by telephone, so not by letter. There is also a problem with such referrals, since the RIZIV does not recognise that form of referral by telephone, although it can be registered, thereby losing patients' right to increased reimbursement. Madam Secretary, do you acknowledge that the paper version of the letter of referral is being used less and less? I assume you're getting signals like that. How often did a correct referral occur that led to reduced brake fees? Is there a difference per specialty? That is what we are hearing from the field. Has there been a discussion on this within the Supreme Court of Doctors-Specialists and GPs? Are you considering entering a system of electronic redirection? Is there no need to evaluate the higher reimbursement after referral, so that the patient is not the victim of the choice of referral of the general practitioner?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u22	Mr President, the reference document by which a general practitioner refers to a doctor-specialist, so that he can benefit from a reduction in the amount of brake fees, has just come to support the role of gatekeeper of the general practitioner and to give a positive incentive. It's a paper document. We have included in the eHealth Action Plan, which runs from 2019 to 2021 and was approved in the Inter-Ministerial Conference of early 2019, the Digital Reference Platform project, project 5.2. This project aims to enable all references between healthcare professionals, including between general practitioners and specialists, to be made in a digital way. Moreover, the patient is also involved, because he or she will be enabled, so not obliged, to assign such digital reference to a specialist of his or her choice via the MyHealth portal. Of course, this digital link will automatically have a link to the actions already executed and recorded at the pointer. It will therefore be included in the electronic patient file of the referee as in that of the performer of the reference. This digital way will make it easier to respect the legal reduction in brake fees when visiting a specialist on referral of a GP. Because of this everything is directly in the file. This project is in the concept phase. The implementation phase is expected to start at the beginning of 2020, which is already in a few months' time. There is still time to look at how this can actually be done at cruising speed, but one already has some experience, so it should be possible to do it fairly quickly. Knowing that a lot of general practitioners work digitally, this will also be an improvement for referral. They asked for figures, but we don't, because it goes everywhere, general practitioners and hospitals. If there is a digital referral, we will be able to have those figures, because the data flows will be detectable and we will be able to identify which general practitioners use them more than others. We saw it coming at the time. I thought it was a good measure because the doctor also knows where the patient is going and whether he is taking steps to go to a specialist. It happens that a general practitioner is not aware of this and is informed that a patient has had surgery. The eHealth Action Plan, which we are fully implementing, therefore included this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u23	Madam Secretary, you have responded with the emphasis on the physician specialist. Does it apply to the E.R.?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u24	I think he's part of that, too, but I'm gonna have to check it out. Several currents have been developed. This may have happened before the emergency service, but usually it is done by the doctor of watch, from home or from practice. I'll check it out.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u25	Madam Minister, we are aware of the eHealth Action Plan, which was discussed in the IMC at the beginning of this year. I am also in favour of electronic referrals being stored in the electronic patient file, as included in the eHealth Action Plan. That is a good thing. We need to work on that. However, I would ask you to consult with the RIZIV on this because patients should not be the victims of administrative practices between general practitioners and specialists. They use practices other than the classic letter of referral, which is a paper document. Pending the Digital Reference Platform project, patients should not become victims and receive less reimbursement because they are referred to by their GP, but not in the traditional way, in other words by letter. You are right, the concept phase has yet to be completed, but it will certainly take until the end of 2020 for the full impact to be achieved on the ground. I understand that you do not have any figures, because they are not registered, but the sickness funds tell us that there is a problem on the ground. The hospitals will also let us know. There are discussions and ombudsmen being harassed. It is not possible for patients to be the victims of advanced referral technology for more than a year and for regulation to fall behind advanced digital broadcasting techniques. I therefore ask you to pick up that signal and consult with the RIZIV on how the transition period in digitalisation can be bridged so that patients do not suffer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u26	The sickness funds also have a role to play in this, because they have the task of informing the patient about his rights. They can therefore communicate with their members. However, I will look into what else the RIZIV can do.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u27	Madam Minister, I agree that the sickness funds have a role to play in this, but patients should not be the victims. If a GP directs a patient to a specialist and makes an appointment for the patient by telephone, for example, the patient will not ask for another letter of referral. That is not happening in practice, and you know it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u28	Ms. Merckx is also expected at the White Blouse Fund meeting and therefore asked if she could ask her questions now. Mr. Prévot, do you have any objections?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u29	Mr President, for my part, I see no problem. The same question should be asked of Mrs Tillieux.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u30	Mrs Tillieux, would you like to ask one of your questions now?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u31	Mr President, yes, if that can help us move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u32	Madam Minister, there is once again a delay in the questions; my question deals with a matter that was topical a few weeks ago. Since 2016, producers and the Belgian State have been negotiating the reimbursement of medicines that can delay the progress of cystic fibrosis in a large proportion of the 2.075 patients in our country. In June 2017, it was found that one of those medicines, namely Orkambi, would not be reimbursed. The negotiations were resumed later, but in July of this year the consultations began for the second time. I am told that every day, without agreement, is a day when the health of children, young people and adults with mucous membranes is steadily deteriorating. That statement may come from the patients' association around muco, but that does not alter the fact that there is a real problem today. Today, these medicines are already available in neighbouring countries such as the Netherlands, Germany and Luxembourg. In Belgium, however, patients, their parents and their partners are waiting impatiently for the outcome of the discussions on a possible refund. The uncertainty about the future, coupled with the awareness that solutions have already been found in neighbouring countries, is, of course, not a pleasant thing for families affected by mucous membranes, and is in some cases even unbearable. In view of the lack of alternative medicines that respond to the basic defect of the condition, the lack of an agreement creates a situation in which patients with their backs against the wall are confronted. Madam Secretary, first of all, what is the state of play? The muco associations also asked for a hearing at the CTG. They're not getting them. Only the pharmaceutical industry can be heard. Isn't there something wrong with that regulation? Should patient organisations also not be able to be heard from the CTG in such extreme cases? The Netherlands has worked with a portfolio, which also negotiates funds in the pipeline. How do you view such a procedure? Do you consider them possible in Belgium? Thirdly, how do you see the file evolving in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u33	Mr President, Madam Minister, patients with cystic fibrosis in Belgium are currently being treated with a medicine called Kalydeco, which has been reimbursed in our country since 2016. However, this treatment seems to be much less effective than Orkambi, since it works for only a limited number of people, of the order of 3%, while the second is effective for 47% of patients. It is a treatment that represents a major step forward for patients because it improves lung capacity and allows for longer life. According to the director of the Muco Association, it allows to limit infections and thus to reduce hospitalizations. Unfortunately, the Orkambi is still not reimbursed in our country. A few months ago, Madam Minister, you announced that there could be no refund for this treatment because of the negotiations with the manufacturer and the price charged by the manufacturer. And, as you told us, it appears today that the American firm Vertex that produces the Orkambi itself has withdrawn its refund file. Minister, why did the firm withdraw its rebate application? Can you now make the transparency on the price that was requested by the firm? Neighboring countries such as the Netherlands or Germany reimburse this medicine. How do you explain that this is not the case with us? Another medicine also produced by Vertex, Symkevi, has been registered with the European Medicines Agency since last year. Can you explain the differences between the Orkambi and the Symkevi and tell us if a refund file has already been submitted to us? If so, could you give us an update?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u34	Madam Minister, I will confine my explanation to what has not yet been said. With regard to the medicine Orkambi, the Muco Association argues that, as in the Netherlands and Ireland, a portfolio deal should be concluded. In such a deal, fixed price agreements are made with the producer for existing and future treatments. Madam Secretary, why didn't it come to an agreement in July and the negotiations jumped off? Do you see any benefit in working out such a portfolio deal? Is there such a thing for other medications? Will you contact colleagues in the Netherlands or Ireland, where such deals are already being worked on? When will the first steps be taken? When are we going to have an interdisciplinary consultation involving patients, who are, after all, experienced experts?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u35	Mr President, Madam Minister, on November 12, 34,479 people have already signed the call from the CF patient association. In Belgium, about 1,300 patients have cystic fibrosis. It is a disease caused by genetic mutation and is uncommon. It has serious consequences for the hope and quality of life of patients and their loved ones. Today life expectancy is around 50 years, which remains very much below normal life expectancy. Nevertheless, medicine is progressing, thanks among other things to the dedication of scientists, but also of doctors, patients and their loved ones. The fight against cystic fibrosis is progressing. Today, innovative treatments that address the causes of the disease have emerged. A lot of new therapies are also being developed, including gene therapy. The petition launched by the Muco Association calls for the accessibility of innovative treatments for cystic fibrosis and is addressed to both the Belgian authorities and the producer. I quote this association: "We demand that the Vertex government and manufacturer take on their responsibilities and find as soon as possible a solution for the reimbursement of currently available and future medicines." This is the medicine Orkambi which is not reimbursed in Belgium but also its successor which has just been approved by the FDA. In the meantime, in the Netherlands, Germany, the United Kingdom and Luxembourg, agreements have been reached to reimburse this medicine. As a result, some patients move or plan to do so in order to benefit from treatment. Minister, can you go back to the reasons for the failure of the negotiations with Vertex? What criteria did you use to find that the price requested by Vertex was unacceptable? What was that price? Have you resumed negotiations since then? What are the future prospects for this issue?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u36	Mr President, Minister, as my colleagues have already said a great deal, I will be brief. My question is about the medicine Orkambi that is difficult to afford for ordinary people. I am asking questions about the deals that have already been made with our neighbouring countries. How come it's not possible for us to make a deal around there? How come the negotiations on Orkambi have come to an end? Is Vertex currently being encouraged to file a refund file again? When do you think the negotiations for Symkevi will be concluded? Why hasn't it been possible to close a portfolio deal in our country? Is this something you want to make possible in future for exceptional situations? I am thinking here of the CFTR modulators that are also important to follow up on.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a technical matter. There are many new Members here, so allow me to outline how things are actually going in our country. The Committee on Medicinal Products evaluates the reimbursement files submitted at the request of the pharmaceutical companies and advises me on whether or not to include them in the list of pharmacovigilance products. There are a number of criteria, including the price awarded by the FPS Economy, the therapeutic value of a speciality, the analysis of the budgetary impact, the evaluation of any pharmacodynamic data and any comments from the applicant. A possible advice from the CTG is the recommendation to the pharmaceutical company to initiate a negotiated procedure. This negotiated procedure shall always be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the adjusted Royal Decree of 1 February 2018. A number of people in this committee, such as Mrs Jiroflée, are opposed to this kind of negotiation and give it a special name. It is only by a decision of the CTG that these negotiations can be started and often I send them back to the CTG. These negotiations are conducted by a working group composed of academics, representatives of various ministers - Economics, Public Health and Budget - representatives of insurance institutions, a representative of the professional associations of the pharmaceutical industry and representatives of the pharmaceutical company. In this kind of negotiation, the CTG never plays an active role. Each committee in the RIZIV has its own approved rules of procedure. For the Committee on Medicinal Products, Article 20 of these Rules of Procedure provides that meetings are not publicly available. Nevertheless, Article 6 of these Rules of Procedure provides, I quote: 'The Bureau may, at the reasoned request of a Member or on its own initiative, decide to invite persons whose presence is deemed useful during the discussion of the specific problems. In this case, this person is invited to attend a subsequent meeting for the duration of the discussion of this problem." Until today, no reasoned request from a member was sent to the CTG Bureau to do so. The CTG hearings are currently only intended to hear applicants who have submitted a refund dossier. I note, however, that the patient organisations may not be directly represented within the CTG, but through the various insurance institutions. They act there as representatives of the patients. In Belgium, we have for several years been familiar with all kinds of mechanisms to allow temporary reimbursement of medicines through an agreement with the pharmaceutical industry. You all know the name of these contracts. There is also an active policy towards other alternative mechanisms. I am thinking, for example, of paediatric oncological medication. For medications already approved for adults and considered safe for children, we have introduced a shorter circuit. We have also introduced a shorter circuit for immunotherapy. This saved us a year and saved many lives. As regards Vertex, they have recently submitted a refund application to the CTG for the medicine Symkevi, the successor Orkambi. This procedure is still ongoing. I am asked how long this procedure will last. I don't have the right to ask the CTG to make a decision by a certain time limit. All I can do is wait for their advice. As you know, sometimes this takes too long for me, but I can't talk about it. After the end of the negotiations, Vertex did not submit a new application for Orkambi, which means that there is currently no procedure for that medicine at the CTG. The procedure for the reimbursement of Symkevi – with or without negotiation – is based on Articles 111, 112 or 113 of the Royal Decree of 1 February 2018 and will depend inter alia on the evaluation by the Commission and the extent to which the manufacturer will be willing to propose a price that is acceptable to our company and in line with the therapeutic value of the medicinal product in question. If further negotiations are to be initiated, following an application from the company, whether or not following a reasoned proposal from the committee or the minister, a legal suspension period of up to 120 days will have to be respected. Any adjustment to the list of proprietary medicinal products that can be reimbursed must be published in the Belgian Official Journal and on the website of the RIZIV. In connection with Orkambi, there has indeed been a joint negotiation with the Netherlands in the context of Beneluxa. We have both taken the same decision, namely that the dossier was not ripe for various reasons. We have therefore taken a negative opinion together. Subsequently, an application was submitted to the Committee on Medicinal Products in Belgium and other channels in the Netherlands. The Netherlands has decided to repay Orkambi. For Belgium, Vertex withdrew its application to the Commission for medicinal products. I am being asked about the reasons that led Vertex to withdraw his claim for reimbursement for Orkambi. I cannot answer in their place, but it is likely that this withdrawal will be more advantageous to the firm's image than a negative reasoned decision. That decision was coming. In other countries, of course, people get to know about this. The procedure for the reimbursement of Symkevi is under way. I cannot now provide more detailed information on this. Furthermore, without violating the rules of confidentiality, I can confirm that a portfolio approach is possible in the negotiations, in accordance with Article 115 of the Royal Decree of February 1, 2018. In addition, this option was the subject of an unsuccessful discussion. In this respect, the portfolio deal is usually a fairly confidential agreement, Mrs Jiroflée would call it "secret" because people make agreements about future products. That was the case in Ireland, for example. All the cases we know have also remained confidential. If you want any more secret deals, Mrs. Jiroflée, go ahead. We might be able to give them another name.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u38	Mr President, the Minister is well aware that I believe that these confidential deals should indeed be more transparent. However, the method by which a general agreement can be made for resources in the pipeline is preferable to the current one, whereby one has to start over and over again. That is even true when, as in this case, it is a successor to the previous medicine. I believe that this approach should be further explored and implemented. Two things stand out to me in the Minister's response. There wouldn't have been a request to hear the patients' organizations. According to my information, that was the case. So this has to be checked. If patients' organisations are not systematically heard, I think we should look at that. Furthermore, I continue to say that it is godly that in the neighbouring countries those medicines are being reimbursed and that it cannot be done here. Madam Minister, you need to step up your efforts and make much more progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u39	Minister, thank you for your answers. You made the history of the file and gave some explanations. However, today neither Orkambi nor Symkevi are available for patients with cystic fibrosis, which is a serious condition. There is no effective medication to improve the lung capacity of these patients. It appears from your presentation that we are still at a standstill. In your opinion, Vertex would have removed his file before obtaining an unfavorable opinion for an image issue. It remains to be seen why this opinion would have been unfavourable, whereas in the Netherlands they obtained the reimbursement of the medicine. As long as we didn't have his successor, couldn't we move forward? It was one of the possible ways to at least provide a solution to patients on hold. More fundamentally, should patient associations not be involved in opinions? They are well placed to know what is urgent to decide even if, for economic reasons, provisional approvals could be given if other medicines were on the horizon. There are therefore procedures to be improved quickly because patients cannot wait.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u40	You didn't listen well. There's a possibility. Insurers are there to represent patients but it is also possible to hear certain associations of patients with cystic fibrosis. The possibility exists for associations such as the Muco association, but that question was not asked in committee. That's all I can say. One can still ask that question. The possibility exists, ad hoc, of participation by the patient associations concerned. We therefore no longer need to adapt procedures. They're here. I'm the only one with nothing to say on that committee. I get advice and I follow that in 99.8 % of cases, except advice to make a secret deal in certain cases. I don't follow that much anymore. The procedures are in place. You are now saying that we must change the procedures. I listen to your questions; I even read them while I'm here. I would therefore like you to take account of my answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u41	Minister, I would just like to point out that insurers do not represent all patient associations. They may be proud of it, but the reality is quite different: these associations have their own voice carriers. I understand you. Indeed, an article provides for their request. This is not what is happening right now. Perhaps the dissemination of information would help to change the situation. Our work as parliamentarians also involves changing attitudes, raising information and raising public awareness. As a result of this question, I believe that associations will better understand their role. Minister, even if you cannot intervene in the handling of cases by the CRM, I will nevertheless ask you to follow this matter closely and encourage patient associations to continue the fight.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u42	Madam Minister, I would like to thank you for your technical explanation of how medicines become refundable. That's very enlightening for a newcomer in the Chamber. However, I do have some comments. I realize that you have nothing to say in the CTG, but perhaps you can also give advice to the CTG to automatically invite patient associations. You say they can be heard ad hoc, but why can't patients be automatically represented by their own association of interests? In that case, for example, the Muco association should be invited. If it's about a drug for another group, another association should be invited. Such a system should be introduced, because patients are highly experienced experts. They do know what the effect of a medicine is, what the consequences of repayment are or are not, and what medicine is best in their case. They are experienced experts, and so academics, doctors and specialists in other fields of expertise can learn a lot from them. So perhaps you should advise the CTG not to invite patients' associations on an ad hoc basis, but automatically. Like my fellow Members, I also regret the slowness and complexity of the procedure for reimbursement of medicines. I hope that this can be done a little faster in the future. I don't have a ready answer for that either, but every day without a refund of a vital medicine that someone needs is a day too much.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u43	Minister, I have listened to you well, but I have not received an answer. The negotiations have not been successful, but you have not indicated the price and the reasons why you found it unacceptable. Now that the negotiations have failed, I do not understand why you do not provide us with this information. In my opinion, there is nothing more confidential.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u44	Mrs Merckx, once again you ask me to violate the confidentiality of the information that has been part of the decision, which I will not do. However, I can tell you that it was not only the price, but also the cost-efficiency, i.e. the efficiency of the medicinal product in question, the potential gain in the quality of the patient's health. That was the main reason why the file was not approved. In this context, Vertex has submitted a new file with Symkevi, which gives other results. Let us hope that its operation can be better proven. It was therefore a question of cost efficiency, with emphasis on efficiency.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u45	Madam Minister, I still do not understand why you do not make the data in your possession public. Orkambi is a medicine used today which, according to what I have understood, has a real therapeutic surplus value. You say the firm withdrew its refund application to avoid a negative opinion. However, in the case of Camcolit, we have learned that it will be refunded, despite the fact that the company did not apply for the refund. The procedure used to obtain this refund seems to me to be an interesting way to get this opinion. Today, it is necessary to put pressure on firms and to make the efficiency/price ratio as transparent as possible. Minister, you're saying you're waiting to see what's going on with the Symkevi. As for the Orkambi, you seem to have forgotten it. You don't seem to make listening to these patients a priority. Yet they, whose lives are sometimes as short, expect the Minister of Health to really care about their case, which apparently does not seem to be in your priorities. I take note of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u46	I take note of the fact that you think that as a Member of Parliament you can obtain from me that I am simply throwing confidential information out into the open here. You will continue to do so, because you have done so every meeting. I'll keep telling you every meeting that I respect confidentiality. We understand each other and we both remain on our side. It is not in the Rules of Procedure that a minister should violate the confidentiality of a contract and make the content public, because a Member of Parliament is asking for it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u47	But when there is no contract, it seems to me that there is no confidentiality either. From the moment the contract is not concluded, I do not see how confidentiality can remain.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u48	You can also ask other members who are on that committee. Ask them. You must have done it by now. They won't either. Then why would I do that? The people involved, including the representatives of the insurance institutions, also have an obligation to maintain confidentiality, even if no contract has been concluded. Look up the word confidential again, because I don't think you understand what that means.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u49	What I said has another aspect. We do not understand the problem in the same way. We do not have the same vision of what should be confidential and what should not be confidential. Then I didn't feel the urgency in your head. You say you're waiting to see what the Commission for Reimbursement of Medicinal Products (CRM) is doing with the Symkevi, while apparently you've forgotten about the Orkambi. I conclude that patients don't have a health minister who wants to fight for this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u50	Of course, you had to say that again for your movies or your quotes. There'll be a tweet on the way. Why would I have asked for negotiations in 2017 in the context of Beneluxa, if that was not a priority for me? Why would I have done that? Just to let you say in 2019 that it's not a priority for me? We've gone as far as we could in the joint negotiation. For both, however, it was negative. It wasn't a success because we didn't get a positive decision. However, we have had a negative decision on the basis of the same data. The reason was that the medicine was not efficient enough. This has proved to be the case once again in the negotiations in the CTG, with new dates that we had been given. That's all it is. So we've been working on that for three years, and you're saying that the issue isn't even on our radar and it wouldn't be a priority for us. Okay, now you have the opportunity to say that again.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u51	Mrs De Block, I have to ask you to stop answering every time, otherwise we will not move forward. As you said yourself, the positions of both sides are known. In principle, the last word is always for Members. Does Mrs. Merckx want to reply again?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u52	Madam Minister, I see that you speak very passionately about the dossier and I am satisfied with that. I understand the principle of confidentiality and confidentiality for the file, but I would like to express the hope that, like our neighbouring countries, we can quickly reach a deal. I understand that you cannot put any extra pressure, but I hope that you will follow the dossier closely, together with us. It is very important for patients and their family members and environment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u53	Madam Secretary, the Italian company Leadiant wanted to market the medicine CCPA for the rare disease CTX at the price of 14,000 euros for a monthly treatment. Your then colleague of the economy, Wouter Beke, followed the advice of the Committee on Prices and intervened by imposing a maximum price of only 3,650 euros. 'Only' I mean ironic, as that maximum price is still a hundred times too high. In 2005, the patient paid 0.39 euros for one capsule of that medicine and on an annual basis a treatment for adults cost 427 euros. I already asked a question about this at the committee meeting of 19 March 2019. You replied, among other things, that a majestic preparation by hospitals or pharmacies was not an option, because the raw materials were unavailable. The FAGG would explore a number of ideas, together with the UZ Leuven, in order to be able to re-purchase those raw materials. However, the same company also had a monopoly on these raw materials. The aim was therefore to have compliant raw materials on the Belgian market as soon as possible. You also waited for the European Commission's response after you reported that abuse of the legislation. In fact, you were right to mention mafia practices at the time. Madam Secretary, we're six months later. What steps have been taken since then? How did that file evolve in the meantime? You were looking for solutions to solve that problem. In the Netherlands, a producer would have been able to clear DCAA. Does that pave the way for majestic preparations by UZ Leuven or by other pharmacies? Where are we on the search for compliant raw materials? What are the findings of the European Commission in this respect? Have you taken any other measures or had any contacts? If so, what results has that produced?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u54	For patients with CTX, a metabolic disease, there is only the medicine CDCA. The Italian company Leadiant sells DCA as an orphan medicine and made it 360 times more expensive. A pack of 100 pills used to cost 39 euros and today 14,000 euros. This poses an immediate risk to the health of the 25 Belgian patients suffering from CTX. Test Healthy confirms that Leadiant is abusing its monopoly position and risking patients' health. Test Purchase lodged a complaint with the Belgian Competition Authority in April 2019. At that time, Minister of Consumer Affairs Beke decided that the maximum price for DCAs should be only a quarter of what Leadiant is asking for. However, that is much higher than what that same molecule cost in 2005. What do you think are the arguments that can support such a high price? According to Test Purchase, transparency is necessary to determine whether the asking price is proportionate to the research and investment to develop the product. Do you agree? What steps will you take to achieve this transparency?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u55	Mrs Merckx, Mrs Jiroflée, that dossier has been suffering. The price increases came after Leadiant had created a monopoly on raw materials by buying up the raw materials producers. There is now also a monopoly on the manufacture of the medicine because Leadiant has been able to buy all the companies toughly because it was a very cheap medicine. Then Leadiant, as I have already mentioned in Europe, gave the status of orphan medicine to a medicine 30 or 40 years old and available here for digestive disorders, thus also enjoying the protection given by the EEA to orphan medicines. Meanwhile, it's still a search. Several companies have expressed their willingness to search for the appropriate raw material or to further purify the available DCA, which is not pure enough, on the current market. The lottery tickets proposed by the companies are always investigated by our Official Medicines Control Laboratory, the official drug control laboratory, to ensure that the raw material is indeed pure enough and that there are no issues in it that could cause negative symptoms for patients. The FAGG has regular contact with the various Dutch and Belgian raw materials suppliers. I know that it was announced that this would happen quickly by, among other things, Mr Coucke. His help is appreciated but he has also been hit on the same obstacles. To date, no supplier has been able to provide a lot of raw materials, in accordance with the European Pharmacopoeia. In the latest analyses carried out by our OMCL, the lottery tickets examined still showed too high a content of impurities and too low a content of active substances. So there are not only more impurities in it than allowed and certainly not only innocent impurities, but also too low a content of active substances. CDCA can only be admitted in majestic preparations if it also meets the conditions of the CC of 19 December 1997 concerning the control and analysis of raw materials used by the official pharmacists. Therefore, a non-compliant raw material does not fulfil the conditions set out in this Decision. The question was put to the European Commission, but the price and reimbursement of medicinal products, as well as the regulation of magistral preparations, are national powers. The European Commission has indicated that it cannot take a formal position in this regard. The Commission is aware of the problem. This is also taken into account in the evaluation and review of legislation on orphan medicinal products, which is ongoing at European level. The current monograph for CDCA is being revised by the European Pharmacopoeia Commission, in particular for the examination of impurities and the method of determination of the content. The amendment represents a modernisation that is more in line with the current state of scientific knowledge. The design monograph was published in June 2019. This allows stakeholders to comment on the text for a period of time. I do not need to remind you that the European procedure is not going fast. The FAGG is closely involved in the work of the European Pharmacopoeia Commission in the Council of Europe as a national verifier authority. So we're still looking. We work with everyone, including the Netherlands, who thinks we have found a raw material. This also brings companies in. So far, however, no product has been found to be good enough to make medication for the patients. Much has to do with the monopoly, not only on the manufacture of the medicine, but also on the raw materials. I have rightly referred to this as mafia practices.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u56	Madam Minister, thank you very much for the state of play. That's right, they're mafia practices. I think it is quite a punishment for the European Commission not being able to give a ruling on this precisely because it seems to be a national competence. It is precisely the way of working in Europe that allows such practices. It is high time that the European Commission was given the power to intervene. We'll follow up on the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u57	Madam Secretary, we agree with each other on the cited dossier. This is an effective abuse of the legislation on orphan medicinal products. Such a price increase is a bandit practice. The only slope we are currently following is the development of a majestic preparation of good quality. Furthermore, I would have liked to have some more explanation about the pricing. To what extent can we reduce that price in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u58	We cannot get that price down, precisely because the company obtained the status of orphan medicinal product from the EEA at a certain point in time for the medicinal product. From that moment on, the price is fixed. This is what I'm suing. I believe that a medicine should not be recognised as an orphan medicine, because it is the raw material for a new action. That drug used to be available in bags in cans. They either gave that to the patient or they did it in jars with the soup spoon and that cost almost nothing. Now it's worth more than gold. It was therefore a deliberate strategy of the Italian firm to obtain a monopoly on the preparation and then a monopoly on the raw materials. The company subsequently applied for the status of orphan medicinal product. So the EEA also has butter on its head. It should not accept this practice. It is a medicine that has existed for more than 30 or 40 years. I've always known it existed. It was so cheap that people were wondering if it would work. Now the producer has obtained a monopoly through lepe tricks. He really sought that, and then increased the price to three hundred times higher. That has been a strategy of the producer. The EEA should not reward such practices by giving them the status of orphan medicinal product. Some countries have supported me. Other countries were surprised that such matters were possible. It's not the function of the EEA to do that. I'm already sorry I didn't keep my boxes. During dry storage, the product was used for a long time. There are no words for it. It is also not so simple to find other raw materials that are pure enough to work properly, except for the company that has the monopoly. You're asking me what I can do. There's nothing I can do.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u59	Madam Minister, I do not know if you have prepared an answer to this, but a slope that we sometimes put forward is the idea of compulsory licences. I don't know if you've thought about that. This instrument can be adopted at national level.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u60	Mrs Merckx, this is an orphan medicine. In this case, a European compulsory licence must be enforced. Europe does not, however, issue them to my knowledge. We can issue a compulsory licence here. We've searched all the slopes. However, compulsory licences are not possible in this case, because they are European regulations and a European pricing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u61	Mr. President, Minister, the specialized press has recently looked at the profiles of pensioners who are still active in our country. According to this study, 5,000 doctors who have reached retirement age are currently still in exercise. This concerns both generalists and specialists. In Hainaut, there are close to 18% of active general practitioners over the age of 65. In eastern Flanders they are slightly more than 10%, while in Liège, Brussels and Luxembourg they are about 15%. It appears that some of these retired doctors are continuing their activity in order not to abandon their patients because they know that they will find it difficult to find another doctor. For the same reasons, they still sometimes take new patients as well. As you know, more than 6 out of 10 municipalities in Wallonia and 33 neighbourhoods in Brussels are currently in a shortage of general practitioners. This shortage also affects certain specialties such as emergency medicine, geriatrics and psychiatry. With direct consequences for patients who struggle to find a general practitioner or who have to wait for abnormally long delays to get an appointment! Many studies also show that this shortage will only increase. Many doctors are approaching retirement age; the profession is feminizing and practice is changing to allow for a better reconciliation between private and professional life. The quota system in force in our country is therefore clearly no longer tenable. Minister, does not the review of quotas in medicine and dentistry seem essential to you? Don't you think you need to change the allocation key to better meet public health needs? For my group, it is no longer tolerable that hundreds of students continue to be taken hostage and threatened not to be able to practise their profession at the end of their studies, for lack of an INAMI number. Moreover, the shortage is very real, while the quotas set are insufficient to meet the medical needs of our fellow citizens, particularly in the south of the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u62	Mrs Tillieux, I am very close to the question of the medical offer. The Planning Commission has just completed the first stage of its work with the publication of the study "PlanCad Médecins 2004-2016", which takes up the detailed analysis of the state of the labour market for each medical specialty. On the basis of the labour force projection model, the Commission is in the process of developing development scenarios for each of these 40 branches. It is on this basis that the members of the Planning Commission will give their opinion on future quotas. In recent years, these have been systematically revised upwards. However, the solution is not limited to a simple quantitative question. Indeed, while some specialties are struggling to recruit, others, on the contrary, train practitioners beyond what is needed. The question is also one of the choice of specialist candidates who do not always choose according to the needs of the Belgian population, which concern both the federal State and the federated entities. Again, all partners will have to get around the table to define convergent policy solutions. In addition, I asked my administration to continue to refine the available planning tools. At the end of 2018, a research mission was entrusted to the IM Associates research office. This study on optimal density is entitled Planning of the Belgian labour force. What are the parameters for defining the optimal density of professionals in order to meet the needs of the Belgian population? The research mission is to examine how planning processes can be supported by objective and scientific elements. How can we refine the planning system to meet the real needs of the population and, in particular, to bring the flow of education to an appropriate level? This study began in early 2019. The final report will be submitted by the end of the year. With regard to the issue of INAMI numbers, it has always been my desire not to penalize young students who have completed these long and demanding studies. You know my point of view. This is a political debate, not a student debate. It is important that the quotas set are respected by both Communities. It is also necessary to be pragmatic and humane and not to allow students to continue their training without giving them the opportunity to access an internship plan. My will has always been to reconcile these two aspects within the Interministerial Conference on Public Health in a protocol with all the partners concerned. Finally, I would like to point out that the local shortage of doctors cannot only be filled by increasing the overall quota. Physicians are free to settle where they like and often choose urban environments for professional, social or family reasons. We still do not have a compulsory establishment for doctors, which does exist for pharmacists. Even psychiatrists, for example, are also free to settle wherever they want.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u63	Minister, I continue to say that the quota system in place is no longer tenable. Of course, this is not the only element, and you are right when you say that young students should be encouraged to move towards the areas where they are in need and that once they have graduated, they must move to the areas where they are most in need. So far, we have chosen the incentive and I hear that you are considering a stricter plan to solve the problem. It seems to me important to continue the dialogue, perhaps in an interdepartmental committee. In this regard, is there one planned soon?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u64	You know well that we are waiting for a government and you are better placed than I am to say that it is becoming urgent.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u65	In the federated entities, ministers are in place and eager to move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u66	The administration continues its work. The inter-ministerial committee deals with all the powers and for it to be set up, all ministers must be known.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u67	Beyond that, do you have any contact with your counterparts?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u68	I have contacts with those who ask. Some people don't want it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u69	I did not know, but I think that dialogue would be appropriate in this matter. At any rate, we will continue to follow him.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u70	You have to be two to talk.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u71	It's obvious. We will follow this issue with the utmost attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u72	Mrs Van Camp has asked for her questions. 55000277C, 55000278C, 55001178C, 55001179C and 5500118C to be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u73	Mr President, Madam Minister, the Dutch Association of Doctors for Long Diseases and Tuberculosis wants to impose a total ban on the e-cigarette in her country. The reason for this is the rise in a number of worrying developments. Reports of complaints after smoking e-cigarettes are rising. In the United States, over 1,000 people already suffer from an unknown lung disease, which has killed 18 people. With us people are more nuanced and many people have already been told to stop smoking via the e-cigarette. However, studies often point to the opposite. A Swedish study mentions that of 225 people who had quit smoking, only one had done so with the e-cigarette. The often heard remark that e-cigarettes would be 95% less harmful is not based on any scientific evidence, it was concluded at a conference in Madrid. The e-cigarette is under attack worldwide. In India, there was even a total ban on e-cigarette last month with high fines and even prison sentences for illicit trafficking in e-cigarettes. First of all, what are your findings on the increasing complaints related to e-cigarettes? Are there any in Belgium? Is that what they're registering? Secondly, has there been any study of the consequences? What are the results? Thirdly, are you considering introducing certain measures for us to limit the use of e-cigarette?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u74	Thank you, Mr Creyelman, for your patience. You have the floor for your question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u75	Mr President, Minister, I will admit that my patience was running out. Anyone who once again accuses me of being untolerant in this committee will remind me of this day. All the Members have now gone to a working group, for which we needed our votes in order to get the initiative approved, but apparently did not want our contribution to implement it. I have my reservations, even if only in terms of courtesy. Having said that, Mr Bertels has just spoken about eHealth, so the linguistic bridge towards e-cigarette is not so big. Madam Minister, as Mr Jiroflée has already said, the Dutch Association of Doctors for Long Diseases and Tuberculosis advocates a total ban on the e-cigarette. It cites a number of worrying developments through its chairman, Professor Leon van den Toorn. What worrying developments are there? In the United States, a thousand patients suffer from a relatively unknown lung disease, for which there is no cure. In 15 states, about 18 were killed. In the Netherlands, so far, there have been eight deaths, mostly in combination with some kind of smoker, such as cannabis. It is reported that the number of deaths is rising. I therefore have a number of questions. First, what is the number of patients reported with lung disease and/or other complaints that can be related to the e-cigarette? Secondly, in how many cases was the e-cigarette used in combination with roasts, such as cannabis? Thirdly, does the Minister have independent scientific research on the e-cigarette? If so, what are the conclusions of that investigation? Fourthly, is the Minister in contact with one or more producers of e-cigarettes? If so, what are the results of these contacts? Fifthly, is the Minister in contact with one or more researchers on e-cigarettes? If so, what are the results of these contacts? Sixth, does the Minister have statistical data on the number of users of e-cigarettes? If yes, where do these data store and can they be classified according to sex and/or age? Seventh, does the Minister share the concern of certain experts that the e-cigarette could also encourage young users in our country to smoke the traditional cigarette? Does she have data on the number of young people using the e-cigarette as a stepping stone to the traditional cigarette? Finally, what is the Minister's attitude towards a general ban on e-cigarette? Is it planning initiatives in this direction? I'm curious to hear the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u76	My services have taken note of the information from the United States on lung disease that would be related to the use of electronic cigarettes, and follow this case closely, in particular the official conclusions of the investigation currently being carried out by the US authorities. Belgian legislation based on European Directive 40/2014 is much stricter than US legislation on the composition of products placed on the market. Moreover, I once had a demonstration of about a hundred vases in my home following the transposition of the European directive on a Sunday, which protested precisely that we were developing a regulation for the e-cigarette, which was also stricter. However, I think it has already proved its worth. Moreover, the mandatory notification of e-cigarettes allows us to take note of the composition of the products that are placed on the market and Belgium on its own initiative has prohibited advertising, selling to minors and the use of electronic cigarettes in public closed spaces. The information we obtain shows that in the US it would often be about the use of products on the black market in combination with high doses of tetrahydrocannabinol. The transposition of the directive will also allow us to carry out checks in the shops where electronic cigarettes are sold. These controls often take up products and also take action against those who sell products that should not actually be sold. There was in 2015 the advice of the High Health Council, which I had asked, that the e-cigarette should only be used by smokers who want to quit smoking. We have pursued a strict policy to protect the population as much as possible. It has indeed been shown that smoking cessation can be facilitated by the temporary use of the electronic cigarette. That is why we have allowed the e-cigarette. We want to reduce the number of smokers, which we have achieved a great deal. Knowledge of electronic cigarettes is improving rapidly. That is why I asked the High Health Council to update its opinion of October 2015, after which we could possibly put new measures first. At European level there is a study on the problem of electronic cigarettes. Technical committees, building on Directive 2014/40, are continuing to work and are evolving, but we have little idea when new conclusions will be drawn. We have not yet received any further information on the possible cause of death following the use of electronic cigarettes. There's a court-martial in progress, but you know it's not gonna happen soon. There is an investigation into possible comorbidity and the substances contained in the electronic cigarettes in question, but we have not yet received any information on this. We follow it closely and in the meantime we also keep a strict check on the shops concerned. This is an activity that certainly contributes to ensuring that no items are sold that are not good for health at all.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u77	Madam Minister, I do remember that the regulation was drawn up in the sense that it was drafted because it had to do with the advice of the High Health Council to use it only to stop smoking. The Council said it could help people quit smoking. I would like to be convinced that it is a useful tool for a number of people to quit smoking. However, there is a risk that the e-cigarette, a trendy and well-placed product that is easily accessible and tastes good, will encourage young people to start smoking. And then one might wonder what the health benefits of that e-cigarette are. It seems to me like a dangerous product. I am pleased to hear that you have asked the High Health Council to update its advice and that you may be planning new regulations on this basis. I am also pleased to hear that the shops are being closely monitored and that you continue to follow the subject closely.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u78	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I am very satisfied in two respects. That is, firstly, because you are asking for the opinion to be revised. Secondly, you have a nuance as to the causes of death associated with the e-cigarette, by also pointing out the EHC level of a number of deaths. In this way, a panic reaction is somewhat avoided. Our group has asked for a hearing on the e-cigarette. From your reply, I conclude that we do not yet have enough information. That is why I believe that this hearing can teach us a great deal. I'd be happy to invite you to attend that hearing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u79	Questions Nos. 55000278C and 550001178C by Ms. Yoleen Van Camp are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u80	Mr. President, Madam Minister, according to Le Pharmacien magazine, two out of every three pharmacists would be in favour of the administration of vaccines, at least the one against influenza, falling within their remit. The study also found that nine out of ten specialists surveyed would like to know the prescription indication in order to be able to give better advice, tailored to the specific needs of each patient. Four out of five pharmacists would also like to have access to their patients' blood samples and help detect diseases such as diabetes. Finally, nine out of ten pharmacists believe that the patient's electronic record should be shared with them. Minister, for our group, it is indeed essential to redefine the roles and tasks of the various health actors, including pharmacists, in view of the changing needs, and in view of a quality and most effective health care system for patients. In this way, we believe that official pharmacists could play an essential role in supporting and developing quality services based on a personal trust relationship with their patients and interdisciplinary collaboration with other care providers. Minister, have recent consultations been held with representatives of pharmacists but also with other health professionals such as doctors, on the understanding that this type of reform should be considered in the context of an in-depth dialogue between all health actors? Are some of the developments desired by the profession currently being studied, considered? Have foreign experiments been evaluated, including vaccine administration?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u81	Mr President, Mr Prévot, you are rightly asking a question about the upgrading of the profession of pharmacist in general and the re-examination of the so-called acts reserved for each category of practitioners in a health care profession, as described in the coordinated law of 10 May 2015. Some time ago, I learned that official pharmacists wanted to be authorized to administer vaccines. In this context, I would like to point out that in accordance with the Act of 22 February 2019 amending the Act on the Exercise of Health Care Professions (SARS), I have provided a legal basis for the establishment of a Pharmacists' Council within the Public Health FPS. So far, there was no advisory board for pharmaceuticals. The aim is for pharmacists in this council, obviously in consultation with doctors, to draw up opinions on the good practice of pharmaceutical art, on care and pharmaceutical acts. It therefore seems desirable for the Public Health FPS to take prompt action to compose this council so that the authorities can consult it. Nothing prevents the Council from also providing opinions on its own initiative. With regard to vaccination, I would also like to point out that the Public Health FPS is conducting a study on the relationship between the competencies of different health care practitioners and access to care for citizens and patients. In this context, the relationship between optimal immunization and more flexible regulation that would allow pharmacists, nurses and midwives to administer vaccines will be examined. I would add that in recent years, we have worked intensively with the pharmacists sector to realize the concept of a reference pharmacist and thus begin the first-line quality pharmaceutical treatment that is easily accessible to patients. With regard to the right to consult the patient's file, I refer to the recent law of 22 February 2019 on the quality of healthcare practice and the rules that have been formulated in this regard. To sum up, the consultation of personal medical data must be carried out with the consent of the patient, within the framework of the therapeutic relationship. In addition, this data consultation must be proportionate and have a clear purpose. I believe that this law provides a clear framework for pharmacists to consult this file if necessary. However, this must be done within a strictly regulated framework, offering guarantees as regards compliance with European and Belgian data protection legislation, over which the Data Protection Authority exercises control. I think we have all the ingredients. But you saw the reactions on Twitter: the ABSyM was not really positive. Even if there are examples in other countries, the actors involved still have to work together. How will information on vaccination be introduced into the patient's record and in Vaccinnet? Modalities must be settled between them and they must do so.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u82	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. As you know, the profession of pharmacist is threatened in Belgium, in particular by the proliferation of parapharmaceuticals, and by the fact that citizens are increasingly using them. I found that the request made by the majority of pharmacists in this specialized journal was not foolish. I am thinking in particular of the request to be able to administer vaccines. This would expand their offer. In your answer, I understand that there is a legal basis for creating a pharmacists' council within the Public Health FPS. This council does not currently exist. Pharmacists and physicians could find themselves there to eventually broaden the spectrum of activities of each other. I hope, like you, that the Public Health FPS can quickly form this advisory board. I have heard that the Public Health FPS is conducting a study that could also lead to conclusions in the direction of more flexible legislation that could allow pharmacists, in particular, to administer vaccines. As for the right to consult the files that I also mentioned in my question, I thank you for reminding me of the law of February 2019. As you said, the elements are on the table to allow for this type of consultation. I hope that progress can be made while respecting the data protection and the European and Belgian legislation in force.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u83	Madam Secretary, do you have time to leave or do you still have time for a question from Mrs Gijbels?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u84	I have an important meeting at 12:30 in the cabinet. I have to be there.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-12-55-commissie-ic048x.u85	Good. I'm sorry, Mrs. Gijbels. Debates of the European Parliament 55000577C by Mrs Jiroflée, 55000634C by Mrs Dierick, 55000699C by Mr De Caluwé and 55000329C by Mr De Maegd are converted into written questions.
