ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic034x.u1	Madam President, Minister, our party believes that those who wish to acquire nationality here should renounce their previous nationality if they had it, because they integrate and make it clear that they are adapting to the standards and values in force here. We cannot impose this on stateless persons or on persons with recognised refugee status, as we are bound by international restrictions in this respect. However, we could impose this measure on people who can renounce their previous nationality. The impossibility applies, among other things, to those who have Moroccan, Algerian or Turkish nationality, as those countries of origin make it impossible to renounce that nationality. For all other cases, we can make it possible to end double nationality. I believe that the current situation of this week makes it clear that this is necessary. In that connection, I was struck by a first fault. I have heard that you do not keep track of how many people in this country have a dual nationality. Is it true you don't have a visual on that? If so, why not? You don't think that's socially relevant? Do you intend to keep up with the data so that we can check them out and follow up on these problems?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic034x.u2	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, my answer will be brief. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the registration of information relating to nationality is carried out through the National Register. The administration and operation of the National Register is the responsibility of the Home Office. So you will have to turn to another minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic034x.u3	Of course, Minister, there is nothing you can do about that. I would like to clarify that I asked that question to the Minister responsible for Asylum and Migration, who, however, referred me to you, clearly stating that you were competent in this matter. It is particularly regrettable that the Minister of Trade does not know where this competence is situated. As a Member of Parliament, I will assume my responsibility and hopefully address me to the right minister for the third time with my question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic034x.u4	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Soors's 55000394C will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic034x.u5	Minister, the Central Prison Supervisory Board is no longer under your control, but today it is fully autonomous and impartial. The Board shall have the power, inter alia, to set up supervisory committees and to support, coordinate and monitor their operation. On 23 August last, a decision was taken on the composition of the supervisory committees and it appears that some candidates were informed that so many applications had been submitted that they had been drawn to determine which valid candidates would indeed be part of the committees. So, Minister, you are no longer a guardian, but I would like to address you, because you still need an annual report from the Central Supervisory Board. Are you aware of the procedure through drawback and how do you feel about it yourself? Who set the M.O.? Does this method mean that those who did receive a positive message were also referred to by lot draw or was there another way of working before that? How do you see the transition from the old to the new system in general? Are there any other problems? Is the consultation between the Central Supervisory Board and the FPS Justice working well? No secretaries have yet been appointed to some committees. Who played that role in the old system?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic034x.u6	Mrs Gabriels, I would like to refer to the answers I gave to colleague De Wit on Wednesday 25 September 2019. The appointment of the members and secretaries of the supervisory committees shall be the sole responsibility of the Central Supervisory Board. Since the new laws, the committees and the Supervisory Board have been independent and function as a legitimate institution of the Chamber of Representatives. As Minister of Justice, I therefore have no say, let alone control, in these bodies which have become independent of the executive. The same applies to the start-up of the board. Mr De Wit repeated that there is indeed a role to be played by MEPs in this matter. There have already been a number of consultations between the penitentiary administration and the Supervisory Board, both on administrative, legal and practical aspects. In the previous system, the committees were assisted by a freelance secretary and an alternate appointed by the Minister of Justice on a proposal from the committees. In the absence of a secretary, a member of the committee fulfilled that task.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic034x.u7	Minister, I apologise for not seeing Mrs De Wit asking a question about this. I would like to address you, Madam President. The system of questions used to be much clearer. Then one could see them on the website, while one now has to click on eMeeting. It will all have to do with digitisation, but with my limited knowledge I find it all much more complicated. I would like to point that out to the services: can questions not just be published, as in the past, directly on the website of the Chamber? That is not a question for today, but just something to take with it for its practical operation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic034x.u8	You're right about that. The system used to be more convenient for everyone, but apparently the system is not yet on track. This applies to all committees, not just this committee. We hope to have more clarity within a few weeks on the way in which everything is announced. Hopefully that will be in a very easy way.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic034x.u9	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs De Wit's 55000718C will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic034x.u10	Madam Chair, my colleague, Samuel Cogolati, asks that his two questions be turned into written questions. Minister, for two years now, the press has regularly referred to Rwanda's possible interference with Belgian internal security. It is discovered that the Chairman of the R Committee and of the Secret Services, himself, gives his concerns in several cases concerning Belgian internal security. He referred in particular to the presence of Rwandan death squads in Europe and the possibility of actions carried out in Belgium by Rwandan secret services. The press also refers to the new boss of the General Intelligence and Security Service (SGRS), who places Rwanda alongside China and Russia at the top of Belgian military intelligence priorities. Minister, my questions were addressed to the Minister of the Interior, but in a surprising way they come back to you. I therefore ask you whether your services are able to confirm the information published by these various media outlets. Is there an activity of the Rwandan intelligence services or has it been found in our territory, particularly in connection with the activities of the Rwandan embassy in Brussels? If so, is this activity conducted in good intelligence with your services? Are you in a position to assert that no activities of the Rwandan intelligence services are currently taking place in our territory which would affect either the security of Belgian territory or its inhabitants, or human rights in general, as they must be defended?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic034x.u11	For the sake of clarity, the other questions are considered to have lapsed, since you asked your oral question as the author.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic034x.u12	Madam President, Mrs Thibaut, the State Security confirms that Rwandan intelligence services are active in our territory. They mainly try to weaken what is perceived as a potential political threat from the Rwandan opposition in Belgium. The State Security obviously monitors the activities of the Rwandan intelligence services and cooperates with the various competent authorities and agencies to limit these activities and their impact. The presence of death squads in Belgium is an element that regularly emerges. The State Security has carried out numerous investigations in this regard. However, to date, the intelligence service has found no concrete evidence of such a presence or assassinations in our territory. Close protection has been provided in the past for Rwandan opponents on the basis of threat analysis, but this is not the case at present. The State Security Service is no longer competent for this task, which has been transferred to the Federal Police. As for criminal investigations, the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office has authorized me to communicate to you the following: "The Federal Public Prosecutor's Office has been required to deal with a few cases relating to threats directed mainly against Rwandan nationals who are on or passing through Belgian territory. The Federal Prosecutor's Office has also effectively opened two cases relating to the deaths in South Africa of Thomas Ngeze and Pieter-Jan Staelens." By virtue of the separation of powers and the secrecy of the investigation, I cannot give you any further information.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic034x.u13	Minister, thank you for your answer. The concerns are real. They are monitored by the relevant departments. I will come back to you to be informed of the evolution of this threat from the point of view of State Security.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic034x.u14	Oral question No Mr Van Hecke's 55000751C is converted into a written question. Oral question No Mrs Soors' 55000786C is converted into a written question. Oral question No Mr Van Hecke's 55000801C is converted into a written question. Oral question No Mr Cogolati's 55000806C was converted into a written question. Oral question No Mrs Kherbache's 55000830C is converted into a written question. Oral question No Mrs Jadin's 55000879C is converted into a written question. Oral question No Mr Van Hecke's 55000887C was converted into a written question. Oral question No Mr De Caluwé's 55000934C is deleted. Oral question No Mrs Dedonder's 55000950C is deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic034x.u15	Mr Minister, the problem of rail running, which has been on the rise for a long time, is again topical; on the one hand, the famous Flemings managed to highlight certain clothing brands in a campaign by running over tracks, on the other, because last September Infrabel indicated that they wanted to move faster in the fight against rail running. Infrabel, I note, wants to use not only Securail, which falls within the competence of SNCB, but also the Railway Police, which is a federal police department under the Ministry of the Interior. In addition, Infrabel wants to use the local police zones. In particular, Infrabel wishes to see justice involved in the event of serious violations and/or recidivism, which is why I put this oral question to you. Of course, Infrabel's request requires very clear communication and thorough consultation, but let that not be the strongest aspects of Infrabel. We can assume that this will put an extra burden on the judiciary, which is already known for structural backwardness and with deficits in many areas, which has not been reduced in recent years. Minister, my question to you is specifically about the legal approach to rail transport. Has there been any consultation with Infrabel or not? If so, what is the outcome of this consultation? Was there a cost estimate made of that security operation? Has a distribution key been established for the cost of that action? What impact will this possible action have on the budgetary resources and resources of the judiciary? Has there been a clear communication and agreement between the various authorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic034x.u16	Mr De Spiegeleer, the law of 27 April 2018 on the police of the railways allows two ways to punish the so-called track running. Article 7 (3) does indeed prohibit the entry of or presence on parts of the railway infrastructure which are not accessible to the public. The penalty shall consist of either a prison sentence and/or a penalty or an administrative fine. The increase in controls is useful to reduce the number of infringements. In most cases, an administrative fine will be imposed without intervention of and without additional costs for police patrols. That's the ratio legis of the law. The King's Attorney always has the opportunity to order the criminal proceedings after all. He will do so mainly in the event of serious infringements or in the event of repeated infringements. He follows the procedure expressly set out in Chapter 3 of the Act. I am aware that the problem is discussed by some public prosecutors in the arrondissement consultation with the police. Security actions by the police forces and by the railway authorities shall not be charged to the budget of the Justice Department.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic034x.u17	Thank you very much for your reply, Minister. In particular, I note your final statement that such actions do not have budgetary repercussions on the means of operation of the Court of Justice. We can conclude that this is effective? I find it strange that there is a clear communication in the press that efforts by the judiciary will be called for. However, I take note of your reply and thank you for that, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic034x.u18	Mrs. Leroy is not here. Her question No. 55000995C shall be deemed to have expired.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic034x.u19	Minister, we recently learned of a remarkable ruling by a French-speaking company court in Brussels, as well as of the report by the auditor of the Council of State on the DPA, the online platform for the conclusion of lawyers' desks. The Hearing Officer submits that several articles of the Royal Decrees imposing the DPA are unlawful and advises the destruction of the Royal Decree. The DPA is not regarded as an IT system of justice itself, as required by Article 32b of the Code of Justice, but as a private initiative, whereas the law merely empowers the King to impose an IT system of justice. A French-speaking business court in Brussels has the same vision and has now ruled, but also believes that the compulsory use of the DPA by lawyers would be discriminatory. Those who use a lawyer must use a paying platform to submit conclusions, and those who do not work without a lawyer. Minister, do you think that the compulsory and paying use of the DPA can be continued? What measures will you take to eliminate the uncertainty about the system to be used? What consequences could they have on pending cases? I know that the Council of State still has a judgment to make, but there is now one precedent in a verdict. So perhaps you can already indicate what you will do to provide legal clarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic034x.u20	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, the action for annulment before the Council of State to which you refer is still pending. The auditorate reported on 27 June and asked the Belgian State to continue the procedure. So I do not think it is appropriate to discuss the substance of the matter before the Council has delivered its judgment. The reason behind the administrative decision which is the subject of the appeal to the Council of State was repeatedly explained in this committee the previous legislature, including in my reply to the written question No. 2880. I can summarize this statement as follows. e-Deposit is still the IT system of Justice. This system is made available free of charge by the Justice Department. An access regime for lawyers is provided for through the DPA platform in order to allow a systematic quality check for lawyers. The importance of such control in a digital environment will increase significantly in the future for Justice actors. The financing of the use of the DPA platform belongs to the autonomy of the bar associations, in which I do not, in principle, intervene as minister. As far as the judgment of the Brussels company court is concerned, it is not up to me as a member of the executive to assess judicial decisions. The decision you have quoted is a ruling in an individual file and does not constitute a precedent ergo omnes. In order to reach a generally binding ruling on this subject, the judgments of the Council of State must be awaited.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic034x.u21	Minister, I would have expected you to say this, because I know, of course, that a one-off ruling only applies between the parties. Nevertheless, I was surprised that the hearing officer was of the same opinion. We look forward to the final judgment of the Council of State and to the follow-up to be given to it. If the Council of State finally considers that it cannot do so, it can have an effective impact on certain matters. I look forward to your answer to that. Will you then propose a legislative amendment to clarify this or will you use a system in which in principle the other system will also be allowed? We shall see what practice will show.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic034x.u22	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Stefaan Van Hecke's 55000885C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic034x.u23	Mr President, Minister, in reply to written question No. 24 I received from you the figures relating to the number of civil cases involving videoconferencing before the Antwerp appeal court, where the judgment at first instance was delivered by a Limburg court. The figures show that in 2012 31 percent of possible cases were dealt with by videoconferencing. In 2016, this had fallen to 16%. The latest figures show that in 2018 only 22% of possible cases were handled with videoconferencing. I therefore have the following questions for you, Minister. What do you think are the possible causes of this relapse? How come the interest has dropped? Have there ever been surveys among users of those videoconferencing to their experiences to optimize the system? What did you get out of this? What measures are possible to increase the popularity of the use of videoconferencing?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic034x.u24	Mr President, Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, a quick questioning of the Court of Appeal in Antwerp has taught us that until 14 August, 19% of possible cases were dealt with by means of videoconferencing. The aim is to carry out an overall evaluation of the pilot project by the end of this year. As soon as it is available, it will be communicated to the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-16-55-commissie-ic034x.u25	Mr President, Minister, that is not much information, but I look forward to the further answer and will come back to it later.
