ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u1	Mr President, Minister, on 15 October last, starting at 5 p.m. – at peak time – the rail industry was confronted with a computer failure in Brussels. For about 20 minutes, rail traffic remained completely at a stop. The disruptions lasted a few hours, as the re-start of the computer system did not work immediately. Due to the lack of information, many commuters boarded the wrong train and therefore left in the wrong direction. At 1745 hours, Infrabel indicated that there was indeed a computer problem, that the entire system was being reset and that everything would be in order slowly. However, this revival of the system did not immediately bear fruit. As a result, the problems on the rail continued for several hours. Mr Minister, are we today aware of the exact origin of this computer failure, which has nevertheless been of great magnitude? What measures are being taken to prevent the recurrence of such an incident? To deal with this type of situation, is there a kind of emergency plan to guide commuters so that they can, in spite of everything, take the right train? If so, has this plan been implemented? Finally, what are the economic repercussions of this breakdown on the various railway undertakings?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u2	Mr Minister, on Tuesday 15 October, rail traffic stopped for a long time due to computer problems, resulting in a whole evening of delays and abolition of trains. It is reported that the digital information boards and broadcasting systems did not work and the itineraries were not up-to-date. The result was a massive crowd of confused passengers in the stations and on the platforms. Some platforms in Brussels-Central even had to be closed down. As a result of this event, it is striking that such problems of information technology can have very serious consequences. Mr Minister, how is it possible that crucial computer systems can give the spirit without a back-up, a back-up basis for their operation? It is 2019 and in the meantime it should be on the verge of doing so. How is that possible and how can we avoid it in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u3	Colleagues, Infrabel informs me that the computer failure of 15 October last affected rail traffic control tools, passenger information from 17:00 to 20:30, and internal communication tools. At no time has the integrity of the railway system been compromised. Systems ensuring passenger safety or signalling never experienced an impact as a result of the incident. The incident is unrelated to the work in progress at the North-Midi junction, but this work has, on the other hand, made the resumption of traffic more complex. The breakdown was caused by one of Infrabel's telecommunications providers who performed an operation in one of Infrabel's two data centers, on an IT infrastructure being installed. This operation was carried out in conjunction with the infrastructure manager's teams for the establishment of an additional connection for the rail telecom network. As soon as the abnormal phenomena were detected, the technicians of the supplier and those of Infrabel immediately proceeded to the restoration of the service. The breakdown lasted in less than 20 minutes. As a result of this incident, it has already been decided that procedures for suppliers' technical interventions will be strengthened and supervised by a risk analysis which will also cover the IT infrastructure not yet put into operation. SNCB's staff, who were in direct contact with passengers, were confronted with an unprecedented situation in which several communication channels were at the same time unavailable. In some stations there was clear chaos on the platforms and on the trains. The incident is a rather rare occurrence, however with more severe consequences on 15 October because, because of bad luck, it occurred in the peak hour and the continuation of safety procedures had a negative impact on traffic. According to Infrabel, the incident generated 12,277 minutes of delay for the various railway undertakings. The three main causes of disturbance in the North-Midi junction from January to September 2019 are first the damage to traction equipment (SNCB: 20.2%); then the bomb alert, the announcement of suspicious packages... (third parties: 10.8%); finally the people in and along the tracks (third parties: 10.2%).
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u4	Thank you, Minister. I did not understand your answer to the question about whether or not a plan B exists in the event that this kind of problem arises again.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u5	There aren't any. We don't duplicate the rails, the signals, or the personnel. There are internal measures. This type of situation had already been experienced in an incident in another activity, in Belgocontrol, two years ago. Common sense, it seems to me, is to favour the small technological adaptations of computer technicians outside peak hours, even if they want to work at any hour of the day, including in peak hours. But it is important to know that in one day, up to 150 interventions can be carried out and it is true that it is difficult to do them only during off-peak hours. Traffic was quickly restored. There are 24-hour shift crews. The change in signaling in connection with the work of the Midi station was major. A real technological revolution took place there, which is not perceived because the trains continued to run before and after the weekend. All signs have been changed. We have moved from a purely mechanical phase to a digital one without going through the analog phase. It's a little technical, to answer your question in a broader way.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u6	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u7	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I find it somewhat disturbing that there is no fallback base. I have no doubt that the many employees of SNCB and Infrabel were of good will to find a quick and appropriate solution, but the fact that there is no contingency plan for dealing with such crucial communication systems is a real problem. According to what I hear here, there is no such thing and there is no provision for it. There is therefore a possibility that such an event may repeat itself. It would be appropriate to develop alternatives in the event of such technological problems. After all, these are technological applications, and we are now far enough away from developing alternatives to emergency situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u8	Madam President, Minister, ensuring safety in public places is an essential mission that is in the general interest and that can even be arduous in the restricted areas of trains or those of large passageways that stations may be. Those in charge therefore assume a sometimes complicated mission and heavy responsibilities. Unfortunately, in mid-October, a video posted on the Internet showed Securail agents extracting an elderly person from one of SNCB's trains, with force and certain violence. A certainty, the violence employed seems disproportionate in view of the absence of risk and danger posed by this traveller. If I may mention this particular episode, it is because it illustrates a feeling and similar experiences experienced by other travellers whose testimonies flow, videos supporting especially on social networks. In addition to the violence, it is also verbal aggression by certain agents of Securail that is denounced. Minister, the use of force by any public authority must remain the exception, be necessary and proportionate. The corollary of this is that it is up to those responsible to offer the training, supervision, means and proper follow-up of their agents. What is the training of Securail agents? How was it established? What instructions do the Securail agents receive about the use of force? How is the activity of agents monitored and monitored on a daily basis by the hierarchy? What is the turnover among Securail's agents? Finally, how many complaints or reports have SNCB received about Securail officers in the last three years?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u9	Madam President, dear colleague, in their capacity as security officers, Securail agents receive two types of basic training. The first, whose terms and content are in accordance with the provisions laid down by the law of 2 October 2017 regulating private and particular security, falls within the competence of the Minister of the Interior. The second concerns the knowledge of the railway working environment and the competences granted to SNCB's monitoring agents under the Railway Police Act of 27 April 2018. The conditions and modalities of the use of coercion are very restrictive and defined by the law of 2 October 2017 regulating private and particular security. The law explicitly provides for the case of a person who refuses to regularize his or her situation. In concrete terms, it can be removed from a train by the exercise of restraint. In some cases, the law also provides that a person may be detained by a security officer. The application of coercive techniques is the subject of an education approved by the services of my colleague the Minister of the Interior. The daily activity of the agents of Securail is followed at several levels. Interventions are noted between security officers and the Security Operation Center (SOC). Each intervention is then the subject of a written report. Possible incidents are communicated to the chain of command that assesses whether further action is required. Filmed images of the interventions are likely to be analyzed. Any infringements shall be reported to the competent service of the Internal FPS. With a continuous improvement approach, outstanding interventions that are likely to be improved are reviewed and widely disseminated to staff. The turnover of Securail agents was 14% in 2018, which is above the usual standard of workers, all sectors combined. It is mainly due to the retirement of staff. I fully agree with you that the use of constraint should be measured, proportional and supervised. In any case, the use of coercion remains an ultimate means by which the agents of Securail take action. While we may regret that some isolated cases seem to be the opposite of what I said, they are all too often the result of an escalation which has its origin in the inappropriate behaviour of those concerned, at a time when the blurring of the norm is becoming increasingly louder. Complaints may be made against Securail staff members. For precise figures, I would refer you to my colleague the Minister of the Interior, who exercises supervision over Securail with regard to the use of his powers as a security officer. I would add that we should always be very attentive and objective when we see images circulating about the subject we are dealing with or the interventions of other authorities. You have to be sure that you have seen the previous images and those that follow. This usually explains things. Constraint is always the ultimate weapon that one would never want to see used, but which is, however, used from time to time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u10	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. We will, of course, remain attentive to the development of this situation. I agree with you that we must remain cautious about the analysis of images circulating on social networks. Nevertheless, some images show facts and gestures that are unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u11	Madam President, Minister, seat belts have been mandatory in Belgium since 1975. This imperative, coupled with numerous awareness-raising campaigns, has stopped convincing the majority of Belgian motorists to wear it. As we know, not wearing the belt seriously increases the risk of serious injury or death in the event of an accident. However, the Road Traffic Code provides for some derogations. For example, reverse drivers, taxi drivers in the presence of a customer, drivers and passengers of priority vehicles during an intervention, persons who have obtained an official exemption from the Mobility and Transport FPS and bpost staff are exempted. However, the Royal Decree on the Police of Road Traffic and the Use of Public Roads states: "In front seats which are not equipped with a safety belt, children under 18 years of age are not transported and their size is less than 135 cm." Minister, do you find it acceptable to allow minors to sit in front of a vehicle without a safety device when the risks are known?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u12	Dear colleague, first of all I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the rule in Article 35.1.1 of the Road Traffic Code is based on Directive 91/671 of the European Council of 16 December 1991 on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the compulsory wearing of seat belts in vehicles of less than 3.5 tonnes and its amendments. In addition, seat belts have been mandatory at European level in all vehicles since 1998 for cars, since 2006 for the other categories, namely buses and commercial vehicles. In practice, many vehicles have been equipped with seat belts for much longer. The number of vehicles still in use without a safety-belt in the front is therefore very small. The case mentioned in your question will therefore occur very rarely and it is up to each person in this situation to become aware of the risks to the safety of passengers. In summary, only on board vehicles without a safety-belt in the front, the principle of the Directive is to allow only children less than 1.35 m to occupy a seat other than a front seat. Therefore, it can be inferred that it is permissible for children above this size to occupy the front seat without a seat belt, which is consistent if it is considered that an adult, regardless of his or her size, could de facto occupy that seat in a vehicle without a front seat belt.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u13	Minister, I take note of your response. However, it is dangerous to carry a child, whatever its size, at the front of a vehicle that does not have a seat belt.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u14	Minister, I do not know if you have read it, but the most recent opinion of the Advisory Committee on Train Passengers is clear. It recommends that the State allocate directly to SNCB the entire market for domestic rail passenger services through a public service contract for a period of 10 years. Moreover, European legislation allows this possibility until 2023. There is therefore no rational element to defend the privatisation of rail, especially if we take account of the increasing number of passengers. A very interesting article by two researchers in the fields of Economics and Public Law has also been published in La Libre Belgique. They state very clearly that, if the public authorities allow private companies to operate on the railway lines, only profitable lines would be operated, while local connections would be neglected. For a small country like Belgium, with a small railway network, that would be disastrous. I would also like to make a number of misconceptions about this. Postponement could only be achieved if the Belgian State imposed additional productivity requirements, the so-called KPIs. There is also a rumor that the scheme could not be extended after 2023. However, according to European legislation, both claims are incorrect. Researchers indicate that performance indicators can also perfectly reflect good public services. For us, this is about reducing the ecological footprint, which is very important in today's ecological situation, improving the well-being of workers, reducing ticket prices, reducing delays and increasing train frequency. This is a different angle from the one in which KPIs and productivity gains are put forward. Minister, what is your position on this matter? Do you agree to my statement? Will you take concrete steps to award a public service contract to SNCB in 2023? If so, what steps will you take?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u15	Mrs Vindevoghel, according to my reading, the opinion of the Advisory Committee on Train Passengers is a little more nuanced than you yourself say. That opinion states that there are different scenarios for liberalisation. Nevertheless, the decision on whether or not to award the contract of public procurement to SNCB may not be taken in current cases. I can also say that the preparation of the implementation of the Regulation must and can no longer be expected.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u16	Minister, I think it's really five to twelve, whether we're in business or not. The situation with SNCB is serious. Additional investment is urgently needed. Our meetings each time say that there are problems for travellers, so there is an urgent need for additional investment. This will only be possible if there is certainty that SNCB will remain a public service. Even the CEO stressed at the hearing that there should be clarity. For us, it is clear that SNCB must remain a public sector company, a company with a lot of challenges, not only in terms of ecology but also in terms of employees.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u17	Mr Minister, at the moment there is a lawsuit against SNCB, brought by some 80 employees employed in the Gentbrugge workshop. They would have been exposed to chromium-6. This is a toxic substance that is harmless in solid form but carcinogenic if processed. Chrome-6 was released during the sanding of the paint layers on the old train sets. Through the press we learned that a former NMBS employee is going to sue society for unintentional beatings and injuries in the hope that his illness, mesothelioma, is recognized as an occupational disease. Mesothelioma is in most cases caused by exposure to asbestos. The man in question worked in Brussels-South for 30 years without any protection or prevention. These trials and many testimonies make it clear to us that there are still many problems with asbestos and other toxic substances such as chromium-6 in SNCB today. Mr Minister, how many cases of mesothelioma did SNCB's occupational health service record between 2015 and today? Have those persons or their family members received a benefit for their permanent incapacity as a result of an asbestos-related occupational disease? How much are these benefits? How do you respond to the recent claim by SNCB employees that they have been in contact with asbestos, chromium-6 or other toxic substances without being informed, trained or protected? What measures are you considering taking to prevent workers' exposure? Since 1995, it has been laid down by law that there must be an asbestos inventory. Is it there and is it up-to-date for SNCB? Do the unions have access to that? Is it true that the Labour Inspectorate has recently vetted all SNCB's workshops for the presence of asbestos and other toxic substances? Are there any results? Can you explain the procedure followed to suspect the presence of toxic substances such as asbestos in SNCB's workshops?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, according to SNCB, exposure to toxic substances such as asbestos is generally followed up by the worker's physician. The file is also followed up by the external prevention service. The space in which a substance such as asbestos was found is closed. Nine statutory staff members have been recognised as victims of an occupational disease due to asbestos exposure since 2015. Eight victims or survivors were compensated, the last victim's file is currently being finalised. Compensation for occupational diseases for statutory staff is determined by the Belgian railways' own rules on compensation for accidents at work, accidents on the way to and from work and occupational diseases. The permanent incapacity for work shall be reimbursed in the form of an annuity. The amount of that interest shall be calculated on the basis of the basic remuneration and the degree of permanent incapacity for work normally set at 100 % in the case of mesothelioma. Each workshop has its own asbestos inventory for its buildings and vehicles under management. Those inventories were updated in 2018. In recent years, SNCB has also had an asbestos inventory at the level of each train set in which there is asbestos. The asbestos inventories of the rolling stock are on a server and can be consulted by the employees of the workshops. Work instructions also refer to the asbestos inventories and indicate the risks and the measures to be taken. SNCB is currently working on the digitisation of its various asbestos inventories, so that they can be monitored centrally. The FOD WASO did indeed visit the central workshops Salzinnes, Mechelen and Cuesmes in April and May 2019, as well as Melle's multi-purpose workshops and the traction workshops Antwerpen and Charleroi. Following these visits, SNCB received a written warning at the beginning of October 2019 indicating some infringements. Those infringements are related to the presence of asbestos in the bituminous layer of the paint on the various freight wagons of SNCB. This is not new information as SNCB itself reported to the FOD WASO at the beginning of 2018 that asbestos had been found in the paint of freight wagons. The writing of the FOD WASO is submitted, as provided for by law, to the company committee PBW.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for your information. I hope that staff will also be well informed about the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u20	Minister, we are told by train escorts and passengers that there have been difficulties in paying with Bancontact on the train for some time now. Apparently, the problem lies in an update of the satellite device used by the train supervisor in conjunction with the ITRIS device to carry out payment operations. In an infoflash to train escort staff, SNCB recognises the problem in September 2019 and immediately indicates the method of working if the traveller can or wants to pay only with a bank card and this proves impossible via the train coach's terminal. The train guide must then draw up a document C170 and a document C6 stating that the payment via card was not possible. With these two documents, the traveller must contact the Customer Service within fourteen days with a request for regularisation. This method is not very customer-friendly, we think. It is annoying for the train guide but also for the traveler. Minister, are you aware of this problem? Do you see a possibility to arrange this in a customer-friendly way?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u21	Mrs Vindevoghel, SNCB informs me that the problem you mentioned occurred on 19 August and was limited to some 300 ITRIS devices. The cause of the technical problem was found on 29 August. The recall operation of the 300 aircraft was completed on 26 September. According to SNCB, all train escorts have a working ITRIS and satellite device once again. The technical analysis to ensure that the problem no longer arises was completed in October. SNCB acknowledges that the procedure applied is not very customer-friendly. She lets us know to look for more flexible and customer-oriented solutions that can be applied in exceptional circumstances. A piste she looks at together with the banking sector is the payment with the smartphone.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u23	Minister, on the International Day of the Elderly, the Vias Institute recently indicated that in our country, the proportion of seniors in the total number of deaths on the road had increased considerably. Last year, 4,962 people over the age of 65 were killed in an accident. That's an average of 14 seniors a day. Minister, my questions are as follows. Is there an inventory by province and subregion? If so, could you give me the numbers for the Picardy Wallonia? Do the causes of accidents differ depending on the area? In view of the large number of deaths, do you intend to strengthen the prevention of this population and target it according to the type of accidents observed in the regions concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u24	Ms.Dedonder, in 2018, there were 4,962 victims killed or injured in Belgium aged 65 and over, 169 deaths and 4,793 injuries. In the appendix, you will find Table 1, which shows the number of people aged 65 and over who were victims of traffic accidents in 2018, province by province and region by region. For Picardy Wallonia, the number of people killed is 4. The total number of victims is 133. In general, the increase in the number of seniors killed or injured in a traffic accident is due in part to the ageing of the population. As their proportion increases, they are more present in traffic. Picardy Wallonia recorded 3% of deaths and injuries among seniors in Belgium. The average number of seniors under the influence of alcohol who are victims of a road accident is higher in Picardy Wallonia than in the rest of Wallonia and than in Flanders. Table 2 in the annex shows that in Picardy Wallonia, for the year 2018, the comparison of the modes of travel of senior victims seems to indicate a slightly higher share of senior pedestrians and cyclists compared to the Walloon average. Strengthening prevention, in particular through awareness-raising or intensification of police controls, is the responsibility of the Regions or, in the case of the Federal Road Police, of the Internal FPS.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u25	Minister, thank you for having given me these figures. I'll come back to you after analyzing them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u26	Mrs. Jadin is absent.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u27	Minister, Infrabel demonstrated the latest weapon against trackers in Jambes. I believe you were there yourself. Several hundred meters of fence were fitted with sensors that trigger an alarm when someone tries to climb this fence. There is also a surveillance camera which allows operators in the control centre to view the situation live. Tests with this intelligent closure drastically reduced the number of track runners. Minister, is the system now fully operational and can it be extended further? Are the places already known where the system will be rolled out? If so, where and when will this happen? On the basis of which elements was the choice made? If not, when will a choice be made and on what basis will it be made? Finally, the test system has a relatively high cost of 50 euros per meter. Will this also be the cost if the system is rolled out on a larger scale? If not, how high will the cost be?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u28	Mr Minister, my question also relates to the intelligent closure. It is necessary to prevent tracks and many measures have already been taken. However, I still have a number of questions about this pilot project with the intelligent closures. Which places are eligible to be equipped with these intelligent fences? I have heard that a budget is being made available to place some of them. Have any specific places been recorded yet? How big is the budget that you have made available for this? How does that relate to the other measures you are taking against tracks? The system has a high cost. My colleague spoke of EUR 50 per meter running, but I have heard figures around EUR 100 per meter running. Are the results so much better than those of other measures such as tripping mats? How do you evaluate the measures already taken to prevent tracks? Cameras were already deployed before. In how many cases could the trackers be caught or identified afterwards? Could the costs be recovered from the persons concerned? What procedure is used for reporting runners? How do you evaluate this procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Infrabel informs me that the pilot project with the smart fence in Jambes has been operational since 21 October 2019. Since the results are satisfactory, internal reflections are being carried out in order to see the possibility of extending this system to other critical areas, including for the security of cable parks in logistics and infrastructure centres. This system is used in France along high-speed tracks but the results have not been communicated to us to date. A site is defined as a hotspot if there are more than eight cases of trespassing at the same location – station or crossing – or on the same segment per year. Each hotspot has its specific characteristics and is located either in a station, in full or on a road. The technology used in Jambes is specifically designed for perimeter protection and is therefore well suited for hotspots in full orbit. It is therefore important to determine the most suitable technology for each hotspot. The following pilot projects have already proved their effectiveness against rail tracks: installation of fences in Liège, 70 %, detection cameras in Liège-Carré and Saint-Lambert, 33 %, trip mats in Waver, 95 % and smart fences in Jambes, 90 %. The smart fence is connected to a camera, whose images can be viewed in real time by SNCB's operators. SNCB should follow a specific procedure to contact the police in the event of damage to the installation or vandalism. At Infrabel's request, on 10 December 2017, a number of specific safety rules concerning track runs in or near the tracks were introduced for the railway undertakings and the infrastructure manager. Those rules distinguish between a track-runner who poses an immediate risk of a person's accident, depending on whether the track-runner is in or out of the danger zone of the tracks. If the tracker is located in the danger zone, all drivers are alerted by an alarm message. As soon as they receive that alarm message, the train drivers shall immediately apply the driving on sight to avoid a collision with the runner. If the tracker is located outside the danger zone, a second check must first be carried out. In case of confirmation, any driver driving in the direction of the relevant position shall be requested by means of a notification to reduce the speed at the location of the track and to drive with caution.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u30	Minister, I am pleased that extensive testing is taking place, not only with the clever fence, but also with other systems, such as trip mats, cameras and others you have listed. I only hope that work will be done quickly, initially, to secure the hotspots, although I wonder which ones will be correct and on what basis they will be determined. I certainly hope that people will certainly focus on the runners who are at risk of a personal accident and that the necessary budgets will also be in favour of it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u31	Minister, it is indeed necessary that we avoid running tracks. From your answer, I can conclude that tripping mats are the most effective measure. I therefore wonder whether, given its high cost, the smart fences cannot be replaced by a number of other measures that may be more effective.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u32	Minister, there has been a lot of talk recently about paying for station parking throughout the country. My oral question concerns two concrete examples, namely the station of Ede and the station of Haaltert itself. Perhaps that was not clear from the text of my question, but it is about two stations. In the first instance, it is regrettable that the function of these station buildings has been reduced. One station building has been demolished and the other is empty and for sale. There is therefore no proper service because there is no ticket sales, there are no toilets and there is no contact person for any problems. However, the traveller in Haaltert and Ede gets as a gift that the parking spaces are paid. In the case of Haaltert, the number of parking spaces is also reduced. The inhabitants and travellers were not always clearly informed about this, particularly the local authorities and SNCB, and sometimes Infrabel, are in default. In the case of the station of Ede, the works have obviously started with a lot of delay, but they are getting along well now. However, the questions remain unanswered. Mr Minister, has a distribution key been negotiated on the cost of building the new parking spaces? Will the new car park be effective from the first day of the finish or is there any possibility of a delay, as there is no support for payment parking in the immediate vicinity? In case the paying parking is entered immediately, for whom are the income? Do travellers, i.e. SNCB's customers, receive a different rate from those arriving or local residents who also wish to use those parking facilities?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, SNCB confirms to me that it intends to make the parkings of Ede and Haaltert pay in the second quarter of 2020. SNCB will discuss this with the municipality of Haaltert. If a station parking is saturated by users who do not take the train, the installation of an access control with a differentiated rate for non-travelers will allow for free spaces for rail passengers. Train passengers receive a discount on all parking products. According to SNCB, the rate is well below the commercial rate for non-travelers. Whenever a car park is paid, SNCB also looks at the bicycle hatch, in order to try to achieve a modal shift. It is also necessary to consider whether there is a demand for a paying guarded bicycle storage. There is also always a sufficient supply of free cycling places. Part of the revenues from the car parks are used for bicycle storage. The other part of the proceeds is used by SNCB to finance the operational costs of the parkings.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u34	Mr Minister, it is effective, and I personally know these station parkings very well, that there is already plenty of room for King's bike or even King's bike. However, the number of places for cars is a bigger problem. SNCB's reasoning may sound very hip these days, but I think she's a little naive. In fact, I'm sure she's naive. The problem will shift, people will park their cars in the surrounding streets and that's just the problem. The neighbourhood of Ede's station has been involved in a master plan for years. There is a big parking problem there, 'not only' connected to the station, but 'especially' connected to the station. By making that station parking pay, the parking pressure will only increase. From my position as a city council member of Haaltert, as a Flemish Interester, of course I am not in the majority, I will try to propose to SNCB through our municipal council to start negotiations and wait for a moment. I will propose, by analogy with the station parking in Diest, that we postpone and review the payment of that parking. To be continued, I hope and think.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u35	Minister, the quality of passenger transportation by SNCB is closely linked to the quality of service provided by its staff. However, the announced changes in their working environment appear to be a regression for their employment and service to users: generalisation of the floating framework, the disappearance of a large number of "planting" services for attendants and the centralisation of technical services. For the province of Luxembourg, these changes are expected to result in the disappearance of the Arlon drivers' technical unit in favour of Namur. The same will apply to Libramont's signal booth. Mr Minister, between a deterioration in the working conditions of railway workers and a desertification of rural railway services, could you shed some light on the prospect you want to give Luxembourg rail? Do you confirm the centralization of the technical unit of the drivers of Arlon in favor of that of Namur? Do you confirm the removal of Libramont's signal booth? If so, what will become of the workers concerned? Is internal mobility planned? What will be the consequences for the staff involved? What answer do you give to the many train attendants who will see their work schedules become more flexible, at the risk of their social and family life? Is consultation with representatives planned? For staff and users, how does the SNCB intend to close down the disappearance of the "planton" service, which allowed for recourse in the event of disruptions or the absence of a rail worker and thus ensures safety of service for users?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u36	Mr President, Minister, I have a similar question, specifically about station chiefs and substation chiefs. After all, the station manager is a key figure in the area at our railways, at SNCB. Station chiefs are deployed in the stations of our country and supervise the safety in the station and on the platforms. They control the composition of trains, the safety of staff working close to the tracks, safety in the stations, etc. They also contribute to the punctuality, by the succession of connections and the organisation of the work of the rangers. The station chiefs are crucial for the first departure, which is very important when the departure station is in the Kempen, for example. So the station chiefs are true ambassadors for the railroad, a contact point. They also answer the customers' questions, help customers use the vending machines, help people with disabilities or disabilities to use the train, guide travellers in severely disturbed traffic and that's more. As a result of staff shortages, at least according to reports from the site, for example, there would soon be no station manager and no substation manager at the station of Herentals. That work would be done from Turnhout, so from a distance. Turnhout is the departure station for many trains in the Kempen. In other stations there is a similar problem, for example in the station of Aarschot. The station of Herentals is for the Kempische region a large station where 4,000 passengers board or change daily. The station of Herentals is for the railway access to the Kempen. It is therefore important for the safety of both passengers and railway staff to have staff, a station manager or a substation manager present. It is also important, for example, in the context of the problem of rail transport, which has just been mentioned, that the provision of services should be preserved. Minister, what do the staff shortages, the lack of a station chief and substation chief mean, in concrete terms, for the station of Herentals? Is it true that there are staff shortages in the Kempen to fill the station chief's and substation chief's job? In how many Kempic stations is that a problem? Our region is already not richly populated by the railways. How will you ensure safety in the Herentals station and the Kempian stations concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u37	Colleagues, the quality of passenger transport is indeed closely linked to the quality of services offered by SNCB staff. This is particularly the case in real-time train management. This involves the close collaboration of several trades which together guarantee quality service and information. Today, these trades are organized at regional level in different places, making communication and collaboration between them more complex. In order to optimise the service offered to travellers, SNCB has decided to bring together real-time trades at regional district level within five operational centres: Namur, Mons, Brussels, Antwerp and Ghent, in order to enable better management of train traffic in real time. In this context, the real-time management cell for Arlon drivers will be effectively regrouped with the Namur cell from June 2020. Accompanying measures have already been put in place for the affected staff. Local solutions have been found for one third of agents who do not wish to join Namur's permanent office. That said, there is no question of deleting the Arlon repository or the instructor frame. As far as the driver's plantations are concerned, SNCB confirms to me that there are no planned changes. These needs are determined on the basis of criteria impacting travellers, such as the proper organisation of correspondence, and are also not linked to the consolidation of real-time trades. SNCB adds that train attendants' services are adjusted to reflect changes in the transportation plan that come into effect each year in December. The adjustment of these benefits is presented and discussed at local level with the organisations representing the staff. In the same way, the "plant" services of train attendants are adapted according to the evolution of the transport plan and more precisely taking into account the increase in the number of passengers, the planned connections between trains and the necessary relays of attendants. Changes in the "plant" services are thus made locally but do not decrease at the overall level for the whole network. SNCB informs me that a number of substation chiefs have recently applied for a pension at Herentals station during the same period. In order to address this temporary problem and to ensure that the customer welcome can be organised in the same way, the function of substation manager is performed temporarily by another staff member who has experience with the customer reception. The station of Herentals and the platforms therefore remain under the supervision of a SNCB employee. SNCB generally has no shortage of substation chiefs. In order to anticipate possible future deficits due to imminent retirements, SNCB has decided to undertake urgent recruitment of substation chiefs in the short term in order to meet the needs of the whole network. The number of new employees to be recruited has yet to be determined by SNCB. That exercise is currently under way. With regard to staff shortages in the Kempen to fill the station chief and substation chief's job, there is no problem in any other Kempens station today to fill the necessary performance of substation chiefs. With regard to safety at these stations, there is social control by the presence of SNCB employees on the platforms, at the Turnhout station 24 hours a day on weekdays and on Sundays and public holidays and from 6.00 to 22.00 on Saturdays, as in the station of Herentals. In the station of Lier there is a presence from 6.00 to 22.00 hours on weekdays and in the station of Mol 24 hours a day, seven days a week, as in the station of Aarschot. The counters in these five stations are open seven days a week. In addition to the presence of SNCB staff, all these stations, with the exception of Herentals, have camera surveillance. The camera images in all these stations are monitored 24 hours a day, seven days a day, at the Security Operations Center in Brussels. As a result, SNCB is able to quickly send its own security service Securail on the spot in the event of irregularities or nuisances. If necessary, assistance is requested from the federal railway police or local police. The four stations you mention contain a total of 119 cameras. For security reasons, SNCB does not publicly communicate the number or location of its cameras in specific stations. As regards Herentals, SNCB is currently negotiating with the city administration on the future placement of cameras in the framework of a partnership. In addition to camera surveillance, SNCB provides patrols of its mobile Securail brigades, which regularly pass the Kempian stations.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u38	Minister, you will not be surprised to learn that your answer disappoints me greatly. You confirm once again that rurality is not the priority of SNCB, including for the staff working there. You mention local solutions in terms of work for only one third of the staff. So I'm obviously worried about the remaining staff. I will therefore come back to you to ask you further questions because I do not intend to drop my region.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u39	Mr Minister, I have two comments to make. In the Herentals station there are some SNCB staff, but there is absolutely no training for the staff responsible for this task as a substation manager and/or station manager. That is the least of the problems. Unfortunately, there are occasional problems on the track where things have to be organised as replacement buses. With all due respect to those people who have not received any training and are simply put in that office, they do not know what to do, for example, to put in replacement buses. They are then left to their fate for more than an hour, with arriving or stranded passengers at the station of Herentals. You are here to tell us that there is actually no problem and that SNCB staff are present. We would like qualified SNCB staff to be present or to receive the necessary training. Secondly, as far as camera surveillance in Herentals is concerned, that has been an ungoing story for over two years. I know the city board of Herentals very well and it remains a mystery to me why it must take more than two years to put surveillance cameras there in the station environment. Most stations in Flanders have been able to place them without problems. Apparently, however, there is a fundamental problem in Herentals and that simply cannot be done. I would like to add myself that this is not a matter for the city council.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u40	When, in Libramont, the SNCB position was abolished to be placed in Liège and Namur, the staff were invited to work there. A third party did not accept and solutions were found. On the other hand, in order to maintain the volume of employment, Infrabel has created a service in Libramont with a staff of 19. Infrabel has launched an examination to recruit 19 people: 2 people from the province of Luxembourg have applied and the 17 others come from the provinces of Hainaut, Liège and Namur because there is no longer local staff to fill managers. To fill the Infrabel staff in Libramont, you have to bring in people who make important trips every day. The technicians we want to recruit on the spot do not present themselves and, in the absence of candidates, we have to pick them up elsewhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u41	Minister, thank you. I therefore come back to Parliament, which always has the last word. Do both speakers wish to add a word? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u42	Mr President, Minister, it is my responsibility that the staff of Securail, who reports to the Transport Directorate of SNCB and represents nearly 600 people, are concerned about the future of their service, whose efficiency is proven. As judicial police officers responsible for a front-line prevention and repression mission, Securail's staff are clearly involved in securing rail transport. Nevertheless, staff members are concerned about the prospects for the liberalisation of passenger transport by rail. The question of their integration into the railway police, which is under the authority of the Federal Minister of the Interior and which differs from the missions of Securail in that the railway police only intervenes after finding violations, is also raised. As a result, Minister, can you tell me if any contacts have recently been made with the organizations representing the staff of Securail? If so, have any guarantees been confirmed for the benefit of the staff, and in what sense? Are the Securail staff sufficient to enable them to carry out their ever-increasing missions?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the question of the future of Securail, in the context of rail liberalisation, has not arisen recently. That had been mentioned at some point. As a reminder, in 2013, the government had opted to designate a single competent safety service for the entire railway area, as there were two previously. That was when we discussed again the separation of the SNCB from the Infrabel group, etc. The debate on the transfer of Securail to the DAB, the security service of the federal police, was conducted under the previous legislature, i.e. before May of this year. At the time, I had pleaded for the retention of Securail within the SNCB, and I did not change my point of view. It is essential that this service maintains a strong rail anchor and continues to focus on purely rail priorities, which would not be the case with a service that would depend on the federal police. This does not mean that the tasks of the Railway Police (SPC), the Local Police and Securail should not be further clarified. Each service has its own specificity and it is important to strive for better synergy of services through an integrated approach. That is why I believe that the new version of the so-called "Duquesne" circular, which allocates police missions to the railways, should now include all security actors. In addition, no recent contact has been made with organizations representing Securail's staff regarding the future of Securail. At present, there are sufficient staff. On the other hand, I do not exclude the need to reassess the situation once the reform of the SPC has been completed. This will be the case not only for Securail, but also, and above all, for the police services. I understand that the SPC has already withdrawn from some stations, without waiting for the new circular, and that the local police have not necessarily taken over these tasks, often because of lack of capacity. It would be unacceptable for Securail's officers to be the victims of a disinvestment of police capacity in the proper sense as well as in the figurative sense, and to be called upon to replace the federal police or the local police.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u44	Thank you, Minister, for your clear and well-substantiated answer, as usual. I hear your positon: keep Securail in the SCB. I understand your arguments. But I think it is necessary to take into account the specific nature of the work of its agents, which is nevertheless to ensure safety. Their function includes this security dimension. We must take this into account. It is up to me, by these agents, that the situations in which they are caught up by people, or abused, do exist. Quite heavy cases have been reported to me. It is very important to ensure the safety of people who care for our own safety, and in particular to put a number of things in place at the level of their training. They should be able to properly manage crowd movements, for example. They are called in support of the police during demonstrations; indeed, many demonstrations have as their starting point the stations, whether it is the Central Station, the Midi station or the Nord station in Brussels. They should also have permanent contact with SOC when the situation is urgent. I also hear your willingness to assess the situation and to determine whether the workforce is sufficient or not. Finally, I would like to draw your attention to a particular case, namely the Gare du Nord, where the situation of transmigrants in particular is still unresolved. Until this issue is dealt with, I believe that additional teams will have to be released because the situation on the ground is really difficult for all the actors involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u45	Mr President, Minister, it is my responsibility that only 21 stations in our country would meet the conditions described by the SNCB so that people with reduced mobility can reach them independently, which means personal assistance and full accessibility via an access ramp. While 70 stations have full accessibility but no personal assistance, the remaining 361 stations do not have either. This applies to the CAWaB, the Wallonie Brussels Accessibility Collective, which met with the SNCB management last June. From this meeting, which involved other actors such as ASBL Shuttles.be, SNCB would have committed itself to recruiting an "accessibility" coordinator who would be responsible for linking the various in-house services to coordinate the offer accessible to PMRs. You recently stated in the press that the aim was to have fully accessible stations by 2030 for at least 85% of passengers, to be negotiated under the new investment plan 2020-2030. Therefore, can you let us know if the recruitment of this "accessibility" manager is under way? Has a wider coverage rate for SNCB stations with PMR accessibility with personal assistance been set within a short period of time? Indeed, the deadline for the completion of a strategic accessibility plan for SNCB is mentioned at the end of April 2020. Is this a realistic deadline? More specifically, when will the elevators be installed in the stations of Rixensart and La Hulpe? It comes to my mind that they are still not accessible to people with reduced mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u46	Mr President, Mrs Dutordoir explained to you here, during the hearing on 20 November, her new cross-cutting policy on PMR. In fact, in the past, the PMR policy was managed in several directorates of SNCB. Each entity had different responsibilities in this area. From now on, the PMR material will be managed cross-sectionally by a single team. I would also like to refer to my answer to Questions Nos 690, 1142 and 1152 at the Committee on 23 October 2019. I repeat that it would take more than EUR 1 billion to make all stations in our country fully accessible. The SCNB plans to make ten stations fully accessible each year during the period 2019-2022, in collaboration with Infrabel. I would add here that when we do work in any station, they try to make the whole station accessible to people with reduced mobility. When I say that, it's all the way to the sidewalk in front of the station. Then it's other people's business. SNCB will continue to analyse its PMR policy in the coming months and will also integrate the assistance offer. As regards the commitment of the accessibility coordinator responsible for linking the various in-house services to coordinate the offer available to the PMRs, he will officially take up his duties soon, on 1 January 2020. Finally, with regard to your question on lifts in La Hulpe and Rixensart, SNCB tells me that they will be implemented in the second and third quarters of 2020 respectively. Finally, we have the European Council on Monday or Tuesday. We are looking at the railway package in one of the tranches. Specific provision is made for a chapter "Accessibility for persons with disabilities", with all forms of disability. Persons with reduced mobility are not necessarily persons with disabilities. I myself, when I have two large suitcases and I have to ride four steps, I am a person with reduced mobility due to the circumstances. I take my example but I could take the example of many Belgians. It is a strategy that must be developed with the placing of the docks at 76 cm each time the docks are renewed. I remember answering a parliamentary question on the subject. As I recall, 18% of the docks are 76 cm, 55% are 26 cm and the rest is 55 cm. So you can see the effort that needs to be made. At present, however, many stations are under construction. Most of the issues are docking and accessibility. There are, of course, still other equipment. In any event, a strong strategy is needed. And assigning a person to ensure the transversality of the actions of the different DGs working in silo is an excellent thing for everyone to become aware of their share of responsibility, knowing that everyone has solutions to carry out this policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u47	Minister, I thank you for your answer, which shows that even in times of day-to-day business, we can show voluntarism and pursue ambitious policies, particularly in the area of mobility. You're giving a very good signal here. As you are quite right to say, when it comes to the accessibility of commuters to public transport, the aim is, of course, people with disabilities, but also ministers who are often in charge with their files, pregnant women, women with strollers, cyclists, elderly people, etc. Finally, it concerns one in three Belgians who encounter difficulties in getting on the train. It is therefore very important to pay attention to this issue. I also hear your willingness to work in a cross-cutting way. In the area of mobility, one is obliged to work in this way, especially given the partial regionalisation of this competence. However, let me stress two points for the proper implementation of these measures. It is first necessary to work properly with the associations representing these commuters, but also to inform them of the measures that will be put in place. Indeed, many information platforms can be easily installed, as was the case during the work at the Nord-Midi junction. The same channel could be used for the accessibility of docks or stations for people with reduced mobility.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u48	Minister, the Transport Council of the European Union met on 6 June 2019. One of the themes at this meeting was the European Commission's proposal on streamlining procedures to speed up the completion of the trans-European transport network. The European Parliament indicated in February that, in order to ensure that projects of common interest financed from 2021 under the new Connecting Europe Facility in the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027 reap the benefits of this proposal, it should be ensured that it is adopted promptly. However, it was not easy to reach agreement between the different Member States within the Council working group. On 10 May 2019, the Presidency of the Council presented a compromise proposal that changed the nature of the proposal from a regulation to a directive and that also made a lot of substantive adjustments. However, on 10 May and then at the Council meeting on 6 June, there was still a great deal of disagreement between the Member States. According to the Belgian position, more time is needed for the discussion. Belgium did not intervene on this dossier at the June Council, but rather expressed its scepticism about this proposal and its support for a workable directive. According to Belgium, the scope is best limited to the largest or cross-border trans-European network train projects and the unique contact point should be formulated in such a way that it does not constitute an additional administrative burden in the Belgian institutional context. Minister, how does Belgium relate to the European Parliament's proposal on 13 February 2019? Why does Belgium want to limit its scope? What additional administrative burden does Belgium provide for in setting up the unique contact point? Why is Belgium sceptical about the duration and content of the procedure? What progress has been made on this proposal within and outside the relevant working groups since 6 June? Finally, has Belgium supported changing the nature of the Commission's proposal into a directive?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u49	Mrs Buyst, this dossier focuses on regional competences and it is therefore the different positions of the regions that Belgium puts forward at the level of the European Council. An overall approach will have to be adopted at the forthcoming European Council on 2 December. I have good hope that this will be the case, as the work of the working groups has led to a compromise text which seems acceptable to Belgium and which should ultimately lead to the adoption of a new directive. Once the Council has taken a position, discussions with the European Parliament can begin and a Belgian position will be taken in the light of Parliament's proposals at that time. It is not for me to justify the views they have taken on this dossier instead of the regions. As far as I know, their views are mainly based on the desire to provide a clear framework for project promoters to reduce administrative burdens and not unnecessarily complicate the distribution of powers between the different levels of competence in Belgium. As far as I am aware, setting up a unique contact point has not yet been the subject of a quantified evaluation, but this would require a cooperation agreement between all the entities of our country, which in turn entails new administrative burdens, in particular as regards coordination. With regard to the CFE transport programme, the FPS Mobility and Transport is currently responsible for validating the grant applications for railway projects, including ERTMS projects, ATM (Air Traffic Management), SESAR (Single European Sky ATM Research), the CF and CQ projects on innovation and intelligent transport infrastructure projects when those projects are of a national nature, and the maritime projects under federal competence.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u50	Minister, it is clear that we all think it is an important subject. I am therefore pleased that you have good hope that an acceptable proposal will be on the table at the next European Council on 2 December. Green calls for further efforts to be made on the deployment of an extensive trans-European rail network, and we even dare to ask that Belgium play a leading role in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u51	Mr Minister, at the beginning of October, La Libre had presented a large survey on the punctuality of trains on the main lines. The figures are staggering: since 2015, trains per hour have been shrinking. Punctuality declines year by year as the number of commuters increases. Whether on one side or the other of the linguistic border, travellers often arrive late. Travellers who reach Brussels from Tournai, Mons or Namur in the morning have four out of ten chances of arriving late. Between 4 p.m. and 7 p.m., commuters who operate the Brussels-South Charleroi route will only have six trains out of ten in time. On the Flemish side, for the Ghent-Brussels journey in the morning, there is only a rate between 73.5% and 77.81 % of one-off trains. As a result of these daily situations, the majority of railway users have a very poor image. Although a slight improvement in punctuality was noted for this year, delays remain common. It goes without saying that the staff is not entirely responsible for the situation. Thus, the work done by railway workers is remarkable, especially when looking at the funds invested in the Belgian railway. Indeed, faced with significant budget cuts – €3 billion under the previous parliamentary term (20% of its budget) – the SNCB is continuing an unbridled race to remain a quality service. Over the past 20 years, the number of SNCB travellers has increased by 60%, but the budget has not taken the same course. The investment allocation is also experiencing difficulties: between 2000 and 2018, the number of trains increased by only 5 % and the number of seats by 20 %. In addition, the number of railway workers has decreased by 30% in less than 20 years. Minister, what new elements can you give us about the situation? Do you have any new figures on the punctuality of trains? At this time of day-to-day business, I understand that taking initiative is impossible. However, do you understand that a financial upgrading of the railway is necessary and urgent?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u52	Mr President, at the last hearing, the CEO of SNCB, Mrs Dutordoir, stated that 91 percent of trains are on the right track. For SNCB, a delay is only important from 6 minutes. This is not in line with the expectations of the traveller, who is missing his train due to a delay, so his situation is worse than he could have foreseen. The figures that De Tijd was able to view at the beginning of this year showed that only 49 percent of Belgian trains were on time last year, which means that they had less than 1 minute delay. These figures make it clear that the method of measurement used by SNCB today is not sufficiently in line with the expectations of travellers. The Netherlands has about the same punctuality as Belgium in terms of its train traffic. Only there are delays from 3 minutes and we only start from 6 minutes. Mr Minister, why are the delays on our railways only recorded as a delay from 6 minutes? Isn't it more fair to the customers to adjust down that time? Delays are recorded only in the terminal and not at the intermediate stations. This also does not give a realistic picture of the delays. Why are these stopovers not included in the delays data? Is there not a better method of measurement than the current one, which includes abolished trains and missed connections? Will you, as Minister, insist on a more accurate and credible method of measuring delays for travellers?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, SNCB and Infrabel inform me that punctuality is the subject of all the attention of their services. This is a priority of every moment. To improve results, a wide range of measures are implemented such as daily monitoring of punctuality and incidents, REX meetings (return of experience), meetings of joint working groups of SNCB-Infrabel line managers, seasonal measures and care of third-party causes. More details by category are sent to you in writing. As for punctuality figures, they are published every month, in full transparency, on the website www.infrabel.be and on the website of the Open Data (opendata.infrabel.be). All the methods of calculating Belgian rail punctuality are detailed in the management contract which binds Infrabel to the Federal State and specifically in its Annex 5 Statistics. This includes, in particular, the question of the six minutes and the recording at certain stations and not always at each stop. However, Infrabel has always wanted to be transparent in this area and has engaged in a constructive dialogue with travellers' associations. This led to a number of very positive initiatives such as the MobiPulse punctuality barometer, launched by Infrabel in February 2018. It is a website on which is published, twice a day, an overview of the actual average journey times recorded during previous peak hours on the main routes between Brussels and the major cities. This initiative is precisely in response to the request to further adapt the punctuality communication to the commuter's experience. In addition, to make everyone aware of the journey times, they are compared with the actual journey times of motorists on the same journey. Moreover, since April 2019, Infrabel's Open Data platform has made available a wide range of data collected or produced as part of its activities, including all data on timeliness. This is really a major step forward in transparency, since all this information published in a very accessible format is free to consult and re-use. Rail is and remains a solution to the climate challenges that lie ahead, whether in terms of passenger or freight transport. Currently, the federal government is in day-to-day business and therefore unable to commit budget to new railway projects. However, I have already repeatedly invited the next government to release additional funding for rail, as I have done over the past three years. As part of the preparation of the National Energy-Climate Plan (PNEC), I have requested in addition to the 30 billion allocation to companies over the period 2020-2030, the inclusion of a supplementary budget of 5 billion by 2030 in order to ensure both the sustainability and the extension of the railway network over the longer term by integrating, for example, the billion for stations. How do we calculate the $30 billion? An annual allocation of 2.8 billion multiplied by 11 billion, that's 30 billion. There are the PMRs, all the means necessary to maintain capacity, the means necessary for capacity extensions, such as the second access to the port of Antwerp or the beginning of studies for the North-Midi junction. But I will, of course, leave it to the next negotiator to make the adjustments. I have read a number of things in the note as we have contributed to it. But it is not because it is written that the agreement will always be rigorous at the end of the negotiation. Let us wait to see how much will be achieved in relation to all the requests that have been made and that will be presented at the international level, at the level of the PNEC.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u54	Minister, thank you for all these explanations. However, as far as punctuality is concerned, while it is true that one can appreciate that there is a better thing, one will have to pay particular attention to the broad lines. Indeed, they are the most affected, and it must be noted that the trains most affected are those which operate during peak hours. As far as financial upgrading is concerned, you have talked about it and I told you in my question, we are well aware that we are in business and we can only see that the budget cuts delayed the work, which has amplified the deterioration of the network.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u55	Thank you, Minister, for the information I will go through again.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u56	Mr Minister, my question concerns the student trains included in the transport plan 2020-2023. Those student trains are, of course, a noble initiative that we support. In the transport plan, a part is devoted to the so-called student trains, which travel on Sunday evening to the student cities of Ghent, Brussels and Leuven, and especially to Ghent and Leuven. Other places are considered as starting points. The operation on some lines, especially of the stops on those lines, raises questions. For example, it is remarkable that the second largest station in East Flanders, Denderleeuw, is left. The station is passed by the bend of Denderleeuw. This is not only remarkable because Denderleeuw is the second largest station in East Flanders in terms of passenger transport, the necessary infrastructure is also present and there are many potential travellers and students in this asking party. Denderleeuw is a small municipality and has only 20,000 inhabitants, but Denderleeuw serves as a pars pro toto in the area of passenger transport by train for the entire Denderleeuw region, a region with about 300,000 inhabitants fairly densely populated. The region thus has more inhabitants than, for example, the city of Ghent. That's not negative. We therefore regret that the station was not included as a stop point for the famous student trains on Sunday evening. Is that a forgetfulness or is there another reason for it? Why is the Denderleeuw station not visited in the student route towards Ghent and further to Bruges and the coast and vice versa towards Brussels and the student city of Leuven? Minister, as you and your SNCB colleagues undoubtedly know, this is technically perfectly possible and would be an additional opportunity for the Dender region in terms of accessibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u57	Mr De Spiegeleer, SNCB informs me that there are two reasons why student trains are being laid in. Firstly, student trains provide a direct connection between the stations and the student cities which are not directly linked by the fixed offer. Secondly, student trains increase the number of seats available if the fixed offer is not sufficient. Denderleeuw already has two direct connections with Ghent on Sunday and one direct connection with Leuven. The occupation figures show that on the trains between Denderleeuw and Ghent on the one hand and Denderleeuw and Leuven on the other hand there are still enough free places available. SNCB therefore considers that there is currently no need for an additional direct student train from Denderleeuw to the major Flemish student cities. In addition, the student trains De Panne-Gent-Brussels-Leuven and Hasselt-Brussels-Gent run via railway line 50A, the direct fast line between Brussels and Ghent which has no platform in Denderleeuw. If these trains were to be rerouted via Denderleeuw, the journey time between Brussels and Ghent would increase considerably, which would be detrimental to the students currently taking these trains. This can also affect the punctuality of the other trains in Denderleeuw. SNCB wishes to stress that it will continue to follow the occupation of the Denderleeuw trains on Sundays to avoid overcrowding.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u58	Mr Minister, in the first part of your answer, you defended, of course at the request of SNCB, the existence and usefulness of student trains, but I did not question that at all. However, I note that the Denderstreek lacks an additional connection. Currently, the number of direct connections via the so-called fast line Denderleeuw-Gent is on Sunday two in the evening and two in the morning. I suppose the students don't go to the student town in the morning. I remain of the opinion that a third connection, via the famous student trains, is appropriate. The classic trains, the non-student trains, already run from De Panne to Brussels and from Ghent to Leuven and Liège. In itself, the offer for the students, as the offer is now, is already available. So these student trains are actually an extra. And it's that little bonus I want to represent as a resident of the Denderstreek. I would like to make you understand the importance of this. Apparently, that has not yet been achieved, but I am working on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u59	Minister, SNCB has recently experienced the increase in its tariffs for the year 2020. As regrettable and down the societal stakes as it may be, this decision is not a surprise because, in view of the decisions and inaction of the government under the previous legislature, the Board of Directors of the SNCB did not really have the choice. The latter is stuck in a management contract concluded in 2008. In that year, SNCB carried 30 million fewer passengers than today and summer heat waves were not systematic. Since then, the world has changed, it has warmed up and politicians should have responded to these emergencies. New management contracts should have included SNCB's objectives in the reality of the greatest challenge of the twenty-first century. Rail transport must be more attractive to the citizen, not more expensive! The inability of the Michel government to break out of its inertia has made us lose at least five years. Worse, while common sense would have been to reinvest collectively in the most sustainable mode of transport, the Michel government drastically reduced the allocations to railway companies. However, the needs are there and SNCB cannot turn its back on its missions and responsibilities, which have a cost. It therefore used the only tool at its disposal as a response to government inaction: tariff increases. Minister, with this announced rate increase, what additional amount does the SNCB estimate to receive per year? How will these additional revenues be affected? Will they be sufficient to meet the many challenges of rail? Do you think that an increase in rail transport tariffs is compatible with the climate and mobility challenges we face?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u60	Mrs. Vindevoghel has now disappeared.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u61	Minister, on 30 October 2019, SNCB announced the new prices for tickets and subscriptions, valid from 1 February 2020. The Governing Board approved the new rates. It is striking that the prices of a subscription for the umpteenth year in a row go up sharply. In 2017, prices went up by 3.38 %. In 2018, they went up by 2.49 %. In 2019 they will rise again, by 2.87 %. The price increases for subscriptions are increasingly stronger than the growth of the health index. It is therefore not a question of adjusting prices to the costs incurred by SNCB but of a deliberate strategy, in our view. SNCB also admits this in its press release. It chooses to make leisure travel by train more attractive. Loose tickets increase more limited in price and the formulas Go Pass and Rail Pass do not rise. It's the subscriptions that pay the price. Last year, the social partners protested strongly against the price increase. They complain that the punctuality objectives are not ambitious and are therefore consistently achieved, which therefore does not provide any incentive for SNCB to improve its objectives. That argument also refers to the passenger association TrainTramBus. The social partners also regret that the subscriber is always being hit hard. Firstly, does the strategy, to attract more leisure travellers, have the desired effect on the sale of individual tickets? To what extent did the sales figures of individual tickets, Go Pass and Rail Pass increase? What other measures, apart from prices, are still being used by SNCB to attract more leisure travel? Secondly, is it to be expected that the same choice will also be made in the coming years in the case of price increases? Finally, how can we make the criterion of punctuality more stringent in the future, so that it also provides an incentive for SNCB? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u62	Minister, ladies and gentlemen have already referred to the recent decision of the Board of Directors of SNCB to increase prices from 1 February 2020. It's a slight increase. At least it looks like paper, but when one looks at the price setting over the past 20 years, one can see that the price of a train ticket has risen by 60%. If we take the offer and the punctuality aside, it is difficult to say that they also increased by 60%. However, Article 15 of the management agreement, which dates back to 2008, states that an annual price increase equivalent to the health index may be carried out with a maximum of 1%, provided that punctuality improves. In 2011, the punctuality had to be 92 % according to the 2008 management agreement. Today, however, the punctuality is 90.2 %. Do you think that the punctuality of trains has improved enough to justify the price increase? Was there consultation with the social partners to increase the prices of school subscriptions or commuting subscriptions? If so, what were their comments? Finally, I have three questions about figures. By how much percent did the average price of a subscription increase between 1999 and 2019? By what percent did the average price of a train ticket increase between 1999 and 2019? By what percent did the average price of a weekend ticket increase between 1999 and 2019?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u63	Colleagues, SNCB adjusts its rates annually, in accordance with the provisions of the management contract. The applicable rates from 1 February 2020 were approved by SNCB's Board of Directors. In order to draw valid conclusions on the tariff increase, SNCB relies on its products as a whole and not on any individual product, as this could lead to misleading conclusions which do not reflect reality. We note the following developments over the past five years for all SNCB products: in 2014 plus 1.42 %, in 2015 no increase, in 2016 plus 1.21 %, in 2017 plus 2.93 % and in 2018 plus 1.84 %. SNCB continues to focus its strategy on making trains more attractive for leisure travellers alongside commuters. Therefore, the prices of leisure products for young people remain unchanged and seniors are now allowed to use their low-cost senior bills during all weekends of the summer holidays. In the same vein, the average fare adjustment (+1.53%) of the standard ticket and the weekend ticket remains below the health index, which is 1.87 % in the June 2018-June 2019 reference period. This increase is due to the objectives achieved in terms of timeliness and the evolution of the health index. The price adjustment for home-working and school subscriptions, partly based on changes in the health index, is 2.87 %. The calculation of the adjustment shall follow the provisions of the management contract. Derivatives and subscriptions such as the Campus Card are subject to the same tariff adjustment. The average tariff adjustment for all other products, excluding subscriptions, is 1.87% in relation to the health index. The price of leisure products for young people (Go Pass 1, Go Pass 10 and Go Unlimited: free journeys for young people up to 26 years of age), as well as the price of the Rail Pass (free journeys) remain unchanged. The Key Card price for short distances in a given area and the Seniors Ticket price increase by 0.3 euro and 0.2 euro per journey respectively. Seniors will now be able to use their Seniors Ticket every weekend in July and August (including August 15), with the current restriction lifted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u64	SNCB also ensures that the increase in certain prices is limited, so that its offer remains competitive. Thus, the rates in Belgium are on the low side compared to those applied abroad. Moreover, in recent years rail transport in our country has become cheaper than other modes of transport. Belgium, together with Sweden, is the only country in the European Union where this is the case. Over the period 2005-2014, SNCB rates decreased by an average of 1% each year compared to the prices of the other modes of transport. In essence, this means that SNCB's tariffs have increased by half those of the TEC operator in which the MR has nothing to do with and of the De Lijn company in which the Liberals had nothing to do with it. I want to say it, Mrs. Hanus. I would also like to make it clear that in the province of Luxembourg, if the work has been restarted, it is not because there are savings. It was because I found the extra billion that we were able to relaunch the Brussels-Luxembourg line. Otherwise she was at a standstill. I would remind you that the increase in the number of travellers, which was 1% over the last ten years, has been more than 3.5% since 2017. Why? Because we have added 72 trains on Brussels and 5.1% additional offer to the 2017 transport plan. That is the result of this government! Since 2017, both companies, both SNCB and Infrabel, have returned to the profit path, allowing them to self-finance a number of works. I think when a final file is transferred to the Board of Directors, I can tell you what the old management of SNCB was and what the new one is. You will then have surprises about the economy that is always presented as three billion. It is through these investments and these changes in the management rules that we have imposed and carried that we are investing in all parts of our country today. It should be recalled. How much additional revenue will be generated for SNCB in 2020 compared to 2019 is difficult, if not impossible to predict. With any additional revenue, SNCB will be able, among other things, to continue to invest in adapting its sales system to meet the permanently evolving needs of its customers and to maintain an acceptable financial balance. As part of the discussions on the management contract, we had introduced Key Performance Indicator (KPI) as well as a remuneration for managers dependent on these KPIs, including punctuality. However, we were unable to finalize the management contract that was ready, given current business. Finally, SNCB submitted its proposed tariff adjustment to the Central Council for Business and the National Labour Council from 1 February 2020 on 4 November. Their advice is not yet available.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u65	Minister, thank you for your answers. For the development of mobility in rural areas, we do not always share the same view.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u66	Are you against travelling by train to rural areas?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u67	Absolutely not! On this, we agree! I do not think I have received an answer to the question as to what additional amount SNCB estimated to recover each year. I will therefore come back to you on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u68	Thank you for your comprehensive reply, Minister. Two things stand out to me. If I add up your figures of the price increases, it appears that the price has increased by 7.4% over the last five to six years. That's not nothing. I also hear you regularly refer to the management contract. It is quite clear that our discussion shows once again that there is a need for a new management agreement. SNCB now determines its own strategy, without knowing its owner's vision. What other owner would deal with his company like that? So Green once again calls on you to work on a good management agreement as soon as possible, with a clear vision of the future. Punctuality figures could, for example, be better weighed and serve as an incentive for SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u69	Mr President, I would like to point out to you, like Mr Buyst, that the sum of the price adjustments in the last legislature is 7.4%, while the punctuality has fallen by 3% over the same period. The punctuality is improving again this year, but as I said in the introduction to my question, it is today below the level at which, according to the 2008 management agreement, it should have been achieved in 2011. In the meantime, the prices of various products of SNCB have indeed risen sharply. I find it less relevant to determine our position vis-à-vis the countries around us. I'm interested in the traveler satisfaction here and the price that people pay in exchange for the service they can expect. Personally, I believe that the prices of train tickets, subscriptions and other formulas are currently disproportionate to the quality of service offered.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u70	Debates of the European Parliament 5501366C by Mrs Vindevoghel will be converted into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Mr D'Amico's 5501380C was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u71	Minister, Ghent is one of the Flemish cities most plagued by congestion problems. It is therefore not surprising that the Flemish Government decided some time ago to build new rail links, partly in response to this problem. One of the elements of that plan is the reactivation of the L58 railway line from Ghent over Eeklo to Maldegem. This is considered by Flanders as a Flemish railway priority and as such is also included in the multiannual planning of Infrabel. Which platforms are being renewed? Are there plans to reopen the stops in Balgerhoeke, Eeklo-Noord and Maldegem? Are there any additional stations on that route? Is that line being electrified? How will Infrabel deal with the considerations that lie on that trajectory? Are they all closed? Are alternative passages provided there? Which ones are closed? It was foreseen that Infrabel would undertake a number of preparatory studies in the second half of 2018. How's that going? Were they completed in time? When will the work start to be carried out there?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, Infrabel informs me that the feasibility study on upgrading line 58 will start in 2020 once the GEN is started. Within the multi-annual strategic rail investment plan 2018-2031, on which a cooperation agreement was concluded between the Federal State and the Regions, rail line 58 was allocated only a study budget, not for realisation. Depending on the results of the study, it will then be necessary to decide whether it is appropriate to reserve additional resources for upgrading this line, such as, where appropriate, the renewal of platforms, the abolition of consideration or electrification works.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u73	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand that in an initial phase only studies are being carried out, which have already been delayed for an average of two years. I hope, however, that progress can be made in the preparation of these dossiers so that this can lead to real intervention on the ground.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u74	Minister, if it is our ambition to get more people out of the car and on the train, then it is important that we also ensure the necessary comfort. As part of the capacity expansion of line 50A, Infrabel has announced its plans to renew the stop point Aalter to improve passengers' comfort. Firstly, part of that project concerns the construction of a new parking building. Can you explain what capacity is being provided for motor vehicles and bicycles? Secondly, how will the renewal of platforms improve accessibility for wheelchair users and for less mobile people in general? Will there be lifts installed? Thirdly, what year will these projects be launched in implementation? Fourthly, have there been any budget reviews in the meantime? Or is provisional budgeting sufficient?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u75	Mr Roggeman, unfortunately, because of the current platform infrastructure for SNCB, it is currently not possible to offer assistance to customers with reduced mobility. The platforms are only accessible via stairs. However, the adaptation of the accessibility of the Aalter station is included in the multi-annual investment plan. From 2020, accessibility will be structurally addressed through slopes from the underpass to the platforms and from the underpass to the surrounding area. When the connecting station square is renewed in 2022, the complete accessibility of the station of Aalter will be guaranteed. The works on the platforms and the canopies will also be completed at the beginning of 2022. The works on the functional parking building are planned from early 2022 until the end of 2024. That parking building will accommodate 450 parking spaces for cars, 16 parking spaces for mopeds and at least 400 parking spaces for bicycles. The planned investment for SNCB amounts to EUR 2 million for works at the station and EUR 9.8 million for the parking building and the new station, which is integrated into the parking building.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u76	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am pleased to hear that the works on the platforms will also improve accessibility for the disabled and I look forward to the start of the works and the timely realization.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u77	Minister, the Denderleeuw station is one of the largest stations in East Flanders and the most important station in that province for the Regional Expresnet (GEN). Since this site could play an important role as a regional mobility point, it is important to invest in further opening up and strengthening capacity there. I would like to ask you a few questions about this. According to Infrabel's work schedule, the application for the environmental permit for the new parking building and the completion of the tender file should have been made in 2018, last year. Did they get that timing? Has there been any delay? What is the planned capacity of the new car park? How many bicycle parking spaces are provided? How will accessibility be guaranteed for wheelchair users and people with reduced mobility? What interventions are planned at the station building itself? When will all these works start?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, SNCB informs me that there are a lot of investments planned for the Denderleeuw station in the current investment plan. In the context of accessibility, for example, there are lifts to the platforms. The plumbing will also be completely replaced. In addition, the entire station building will be renovated in the long term. According to current planning, work on improving accessibility will start in 2021. However, the construction of a parking garage is not currently planned. SNCB has recently received the request from the municipality about the development of the parking, but it is too early today to comment on the planning of a possible parking garage.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u79	Minister, there are great needs in Denderleeuw in terms of mobility. It is a good thing that the planning is in place, but I regret the delay in preparing the work here too for a few years. After all, I understand that the studies to be carried out in 2018 mean that the works will not be carried out until 2021 at the earliest. That is regrettable and I hope that there will be no further delay on top of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u80	Mr Minister, in connection with the capacity expansion of the 50A railway line, Infrabel wants to renew Hansbeke's stop point and build a bypass tunnel. Mr Minister, what is the parking capacity for cars and bicycles that will be installed there at the new station? In what way does Infrabel intend to limit noise pollution for residents? Were there any budget revisions in the meantime? What additional resources are needed for the realisation of this project?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u81	SNCB informs me that around the station in Hansbeke 56 parking spaces and 160 bicycle parking spaces are planned. The investment amount for this is EUR 2.6 million. According to Infrabel, the mitigating measures, including the placement of sound shields, result from the licence and the EIA reporting.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u82	Thank you very much for your explanation, Minister. It is of course important that the capacity expansion on that line is realised, but certainly in the immediate vicinity of residential areas that has an impact on the neighborhood. I therefore believe that it is important to apply the necessary sound insulation in a form that is preferably aesthetically acceptable, such as green sound walls, for those who live in the immediate vicinity. Maybe Infrabel can take that with him in the preparation of the plans.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u83	Mr President, Minister, the number of accidents involving trucks has been down in recent years, but 2019 has unfortunately broken this downward curve. Indeed, in Wallonia this year there has been an increase in the number of accidents involving heavy goods vehicles and an increase in the number of fatalities. In Flanders, on the other hand, there is a decrease, and it is happy. Minister, how do you explain this difference between the two Regions? Can you indicate the number of accidents involving trucks in Picardy Wallonia in 2019? How many deaths are related to these accidents? In Picardy Wallonia, is there a trend (positive or negative) in the number of people killed in an accident with a truck in the last ten years? Can you give me the numbers?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u84	Mr President, dear colleague, the data cited are from the road safety barometer of the first half of 2019. There is indeed a significant decrease in the number of accidents involving a truck in Flanders over the past three years and a stagnation in the number of accidents involving a truck in Wallonia. As a reminder, the road safety barometer developed by the Vias Institute allows to follow the major trends in road accidents quarterly, without having to wait for the official annual statistics. However, further analysis is still needed to verify whether these trends persist. Relativising this data by the number of kilometres travelled in each of the regions shows us that the risk of accidents per kilometre travelled in Flanders tends to be gradually closer to that in Wallonia. It should also be pointed out that the period covers only half a year with relatively small figures whose evolutions are more sensitive to random deviations. Finally, the number of wounded is not increasing, but slightly decreasing in Wallonia, while the number of killed in Flanders is decreasing, but is increasing sharply in Wallonia. The analysis of the situation will only be carried out once the final data have been published by the SPF Economy. However, some assumptions about these figures can be put forward cautiously. The first is linked to the mobility of heavy goods vehicles because if they travel more kilometres, it makes sense that the number of accidents and fatalities is increasing, especially if these distances are travelled on roads where the risk of serious accidents is greater, as in urban areas. The second hypothesis concerns the mobility of soft users. A combined increase in traffic in trucks, bicycles, scooters and other modes of mild locomotion could result in an increase in the number of fatalities in accidents involving heavy goods vehicles. I'll give you the tables showing the number of accidents and fatalities in accidents involving a heavyweight in Picardy Wallonia per semester. With regard to accidents, the data are small and fluctuate widely from year to year, although the trend seems to be stagnation. For those who died in accidents, the figures are very small and do not allow easy interpretation. But with two deaths in the first half of 2019, the situation seems by no means out of standard compared to previous years.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u85	Minister, thank you for all this information.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u86	Minister, the lack of selective sorting for waste collection at the Mons station has been the subject of many criticisms from travellers. As a result, several commuters at the Mons station have been involved in waste collection methods that are very little in line with current environmental protection requirements. According to the testimony gathered, photos in support, it would appear that the waste pick-up company emptied the garbage and systematically delivered black bags without allowing selective sorting. Each black bag is poured into other black bags. New black bags were subsequently installed in the absence of bags for PMCs and cartons. You will understand, Minister, that this is a completely inadequate method of operation that is contrary to the environmental commitments made by a public company such as SNCB. How do you explain such a lack of selective sorting at Mons station? Is selective sorting not part of the contractual obligations of the undertaking mandated by SNCB for the collection of waste at the Mons station? Can you assure me that, in the future, the collection of waste at Mons station, as in all other stations in the country, no matter their size, will be done by applying selective sorting?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u87	Dear colleague, recently at the station of Mons the SNCB, like you, has found bad practices in selective sorting. When collecting waste and emptying garbage, the service provider must, as far as possible, sort the waste into different categories. These four categories are: paper and paperboard, PMC (plastic bottles, metal packaging and beverage cartons), glass and miscellaneous waste. SNCB reminded its service provider of the instructions in place and the commitments made to SNCB. It confirmed to me that it would be vigilant in this regard and would strengthen its controls for the strict application of the contractual provisions which bind it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u88	Thank you, Minister. Don't worry, anyway, as I'm a commuter, and I'm going to pick up the train for Mons just now, I'll check directly whether this measure has been applied so that selective sorting is respected again.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u89	Minister, I have a question about a pilot project, which was already carried out in 2016. Passengers in two first-class carriages on the Eupen-Ostend line could use Wi-Fi. Despite the positive evaluation of the project, the roll-out of the project was too expensive and SNCB decided no longer to invest in the provision of Wi-Fi on the train. It is too expensive and, in addition, the telecom operators would have fully covered the entire rail network by 2G, 3G and 4G by the end of 2018. The BIPT figures, which measure across the territory, show that there is a 38 % coverage for Proximus, 79 % coverage for Orange and almost 70 % coverage for BASE. These figures correspond to a very good level three signal. Since the BIPT assumes that the radiation level corresponds to coverage within the train, we can say that large parts of the rail network still do not have mobile internet in the train, especially since the poor coverage is mainly in less densely populated areas, which are places where the train often runs. This is what many train passengers experience every day. This would significantly improve passenger comfort. That is why I have a number of questions to ask. Firstly, what concrete measures are you taking, and now it appears that large parts of the rail network still do not have sufficient signal to get mobile internet into the train? Secondly, the newly purchased trains would be equipped with network amplifiers that bring mobile internet more easily into the train. Can you confirm that? What is the cost of the system? Thirdly, can the system of network amplifiers also be applied to trains that are already in use? Has SNCB already considered the option? Will she install those network amplifiers on other trains? If so or if not, why does SNCB go for that choice? What is the price per wagon for the system? Fourthly, other options are also being studied. Researchers at l'Ecole polytechnique fédérale de Lausanne have developed windows that allow the signal to pass more easily. Are you aware of this technology? How do you feel about this technology? Does SNCB intend to apply this new technology to existing trains? Was this technology taken into account in the purchase of new carriages? Finally, is the lack of sufficient mobile coverage a problem for the activities of the train crew? Which tools depend on the mobile network? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u90	Minister, Mr Verhaert has already outlined the Wi-Fi dossier in a very concrete and comprehensive way. So I will not repeat it. Sp.a believes that it should be possible to offer Wi-Fi on the trains in Belgium, as is the case in the Netherlands, Sweden and the United Kingdom, as well as on the Thalys. However, we also understand that this may be a very large investment. If you can ensure a good coverage of 4G via the mobile operators, then I think that the comfort of the train traveller is already quite advanced. I have the following questions. Is the plan ever to install Wi-Fi on the trains in our country now or not completely gone? By what time can rail passengers expect a mobile network to be present on the train at any time and everywhere?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, I refer you to the answer I gave to the written question No 18 October 2018. 3332 by Mrs De Coninck. I repeat that the 4G coverage of the rail network depends on the investments made by mobile operators and on the obligations of coverage laid down by the Minister for Telecommunications. Your question concerning the improvement of the 2G, 3G and 4G network range cannot therefore be answered by SNCB. You must address your question to the Minister for Telecommunications, Mr Philippe De Backer, who is responsible for the telecom operators. SNCB informs me that it is at least not aware of any pilot project with a mobile network system. On the other hand, SNCB is currently carrying out tests on windows that would allow network signals to pass. The possibility exists to improve the reception of the mobile signal by cutting part of the metal layer on the glazing of the rolling stock with a laser, without reducing its energetic performance. The technical solution was recently applied by the Swiss Federal Railways, the Austrian State Railways and Deutsche Bahn. The results of the laboratory tests and the line tests were positive, both in urban and rural areas. In the light of the revision of the M7 vehicles, SNCB is considering replacing its windows with custom glazing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u92	Minister, the technique you describe is indeed being investigated by the Ecole polytechnique fédérale de Lausanne. I am pleased that initiatives are being taken, but it is also important to consider whether some adjustments can be made to existing trains so that at least a network is in place, as this will greatly increase passenger comfort.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u93	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 55001503C by Mrs Buyst, 55001532C by Mr Arens, 55001534C by Mrs Thémont and 55001549C by Mrs Jadin are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u94	The technology of self-driving trains is now at an advanced stage. Successful tests were carried out both in the United Kingdom and in the Netherlands and France. In the Netherlands and France, the technology would be implemented on the network from 2023 and even on high-speed trains. In its design of business plan, Infrabel provides a budget for test projects with self-driving trains. To what extent can Infrabel rely on the results of the pilot projects in neighbouring countries? What studies did SNCB have carried out under Mr Jo Cornu on self-driving trains during the period? What were the results of this? Can the members of the committee have access to this? Are there any other transport companies operating on the network other than SNCB whose cooperation on Infrabel pilot projects could be useful? What position have you taken as a supervisory minister in recent years?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u95	Mr President, on 23 October I asked a question in committee about self-driving trains. At that time, it sounded that SNCB has no immediate plans to carry out tests with self-driving trains. On November 12, De Tijd announced that Infrabel would like to carry out tests with the railway works in the North-South connection and the implementation of ATO with self-driving trains. Although the company fired the project before, it clearly looks at the decision of SNCB. What new elements do you have regarding the self-driving train? What are the concrete plans of Infrabel? What timing puts Infrabel first? At the hearing on 20 November it became clear again that SNCB was still not ready to join the project. If SNCB maintains its position and does not want to carry out tests on a self-driving train, what options does Infrabel consider in order to be able to carry out a pilot project? Is a pilot project also being launched for trains carrying cargo? What are the possibilities? Has there been any interest from the cargo sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u96	Colleagues, Infrabel and SNCB inform me that they are currently studying ATO (Automatic Train Operation) technology. This possibility needs to be deepened in the context of increasing mobility needs and the optimal management of rail capacity. In 2017, SNCB and Infrabel jointly launched a study specific to the North-South connection. The conclusions are expected in the coming months. Infrabel and SNCB should give priority to the further roll-out of the ETCS safety system on the entire rail network and on all rolling stock in the following years, with the implementation of their ERTMS master plan. Such equipment is a necessary condition for the possible activation of ATO technology.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u97	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I look forward to the conclusions of the study you mention. If I am not mistaken, preliminary studies of self-driving trains have already been carried out in the past. That is exactly what my question was about. I hope that we will also be able to request them and look into SNCB and Infrabel. I also note that the negative and negative tone on self-driving trains has been slightly softened. That is a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u98	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l 5001607C and 5001609C by Mrs Buyst will be converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u99	Minister, we are in November 2019, eight years after the launch of the Mons station site. It must be noted that in view of the work still underway on site, it is not tomorrow that the Montois and the commuters – of which I am a part – will be entitled to their new station! If I come back to you again, it is because such a long time to build a new station poses a question and raises many criticisms. Remember the last time I asked you about the construction site. You answered me 2019 no doubt, but 2020 was more reasonable. Every time I ask a Minister of Infrastructure at Mons Station, he always tells me that a year later it will be over and a year later he always adds a year. I have been a parliamentarian for twelve years and I have had time to ask a number of questions about the eight years of work. It is also very harmful for all those affected by the construction site or by far. I am thinking not only of travellers but also of residents and people who have commercial activities in this area. The nuisances they suffer are enormous. Their patience has now reached its limits. Eight years is twice the original deadline. As a reminder, the new station was supposed to be finished for Mons 2015. Moreover, so much time to build a new station gives a particularly negative image of our country. Today, Minister, it is high time this ended. What are the steps still to be taken before the new station is put into service? Will the parking lots currently completed in the basement soon be put into service? Given the information you have, could you be specific about the final completion of the work and provide a date for the inauguration of the new station in Mons?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, the SNCB informs me that the significant delay in the construction of the multimodal station in Mons is in large part due to failures, i.e. bankruptcies, of the various companies to which public contracts had been awarded to carry out the construction, the installation of the metal frame and the structures of the dock shelters. These serious malfunctions have an impact on the lead times and, in cascading, on the glassworks, lifting equipment, special techniques and completion of the construction site. Despite these difficulties, work on large concrete works continues. The concrete work on the slab has just been completed and work on the North and South stairs is under way. In addition, a market procedure is under way in order to realize an early opening of the North car park on the Grands Prés side. The target is autumn 2020. The final date for the completion of work can only be communicated when all contracts are awarded in compliance with public procurement legislation and when the last events of companies which are active on the spot and which are again, for some, facing major economic and financial difficulties, have been lifted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u101	Minister, there are rumours in the Montoise region that there would still be a bankrupt company among those that have to complete the project. You confirm it to me and I know it's more than rumors, based on the echoes I get. It is also clear that with the delays that are constantly growing, I fear that we will lose the benefit of the European subsidies that have been allocated for the construction site. I'll come back to you to make sure there's no risk at that level. You also know we're talking about a multimodal station. So there are also 30 million euros planned by the Walloon Region for the bus part of the station. I believe that there is also concern in the Walloon government. You come with partial progress of the construction site, as you do with the opening of the parking lot which is a good idea but admit that autumn 2020 is still far away! It's almost in a year, or another year of work to open car parks that are already built. It's hard for me to understand that it takes so long to open the parking lot. I will certainly come back to you to ask for your intervention in order to try to go faster in the opening of these car parks which are undoubtedly expected by the residents who park on the other side of Mons, side Grands Prés a little everywhere to benefit from the access to the station via the current bridge.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u102	With regard to the organization of our work, Minister, do you confirm that you are leaving us at about 5.30 p.m.?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u103	Mr President, if everyone speaks briefly, I would like to respond briefly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u104	In any case, we shall deal with Mr Torbars' question. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 5, by Mr Arens Mrs Farih's 55001682C has been converted into written questions. Perhaps we will also deal with one or two of Mr Vandenbroucke's questions, and then we will stop.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u105	Minister, from the beginning of January to mid-April 2018, all employees and their managers of the Train Guidance Service (BTR3), Operational Management (BTR5) and Corporate Security Service (BTR6) have been able to participate in the survey on well-being at work and the experience of absenteeism. About 56.5 % of the total, representing 2,986 employees, have completed the questionnaire. A few striking results have emerged from this survey: 41 % have a lack of energy to relax after working hours; 22 % experience a lack of pleasure at work; 57 % claim to receive conflicting assignments, and 26 % feel that harassment occurs during work. Based on the results of this study, the Fine@Work Action Plan for SDR3, 5 and 6 was developed. My question is simply whether you can explain the state of play and the content of that action plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u106	Mr.Troasters, the pilot project Fine@Work set up at the Train Guidance, the Operational Management Train Traffic and the Corporate Security Service was extended to all SNCB employees. A vision and approach to well-being and absenteeism were developed and communicated to all managers, HR business partners and occupational prevention and protection committees. The approach that focuses on the sustainable employability of employees has been translated into a welfare and absenteeism protocol for managers that explains the actions that managers can take proactively and reactively in the various steps of the failure process. This will explain, among other things, the different channels of assistance available, such as HR business partners, trust, prevention and social services. To support the manager in his role in addressing well-being and absenteeism, several tools have been developed, including a tool that allows for user-friendly monitoring of group-level failure. In addition, managers are provided with an application to facilitate the targeted follow-up of individual employees. In order to ensure that the follow-up is carried out in a constructive manner, training has been launched for all managers, including broad use of interview techniques and skills in absenteeism interviews. In 2020, the training for managers will be further developed and a failure follow-up tool for HR business partners will be provided. There will also be welfare theme days for executives, with experts explaining well-being topics and sharing good practices.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u107	Question No 55001674C by Mr Arens is transformed into a written question. Question No 55001693C by Mr Vandenbroucke is not applicable. Question No 55001694C by Mr Vandenbroucke is transformed into a written question. Joined Questions Nos 55001695C by Mrs Jadin and 55001713C by Mr Arens are transformed into written questions. Questions Nos 55001702C by Mrs Pas and 55001706C by Mrs Rohonyi are postponed. Question No 55001712C by Mr Arens is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u108	That's a nice question, Mrs. Thibaut!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u109	Minister, thank you for staying. Indeed, until last week, I would not have asked this question, but punctuality on line 161 deteriorated suddenly. The delays seem to have their origin at Ciney and have cascading effects up to Brussels or Luxembourg City. At the same time, infrastructure works began between Haversin and Ciney, involving single-track traffic. As the Ciney train station is a train station where trains cross within a minute, a very small delay causes enormous consequences on the punctuality of the trains. In addition, if the conditions for the crossing are not met, the single-track service will immobilise both trains. In addition, the development of the Ciney train station wharfs, which are very necessary and which started shortly ago, was completed. I note the presence of only two passing lanes and the absence of a temporary emergency dock. Given the already tense situation, this poses difficulties. In addition, different trains have been removed to fluidize traffic and strengthen the robustness of the line, resulting in a decrease in offer and comfort for passengers. It comes to my mind that the SNCB still wants to remove other trains during the work and replace them with buses. Minister, do you share my findings? What are the punctuality figures since November 18? Do you, like me, see any degradation? When did the infrastructure work between Haversin-Ciney and Ciney station start? What are their end dates? How many trains do they have and will they be abolished during this period? Will some trains be replaced by buses? How to improve the robustness of the line during work? As you said in another speech, the work is numerous and important. It is a political choice that we look forward to. However, this degradation deserves to be explained and resolved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u110	Mr President, Member, the punctuality on line 161 during week 47 (18-24/11) is approximately 5% lower than the current November average this year. As for the punctuality on line 162 in week 47, it is approximately ten points below the current November 2019 average. I'll give you the tables in the appendix. I regret these figures, but it can only be seen that, although the third quarter of the year has a very regular average punctuality lower than that of the year, due in particular to climatic conditions, lines 161 and 162 have experienced greater difficulties in recent weeks. However, the companies confirm to me that every effort is being made to minimise the impact of the work on these lines which, in the long run, must of course improve the situation of the line and thus its attractiveness. With regard to the start and end dates of the infrastructure work, between Haversin and Ciney and at Ciney station, the work on the track B of line 162 between Ciney and Haversin began on 12 November 2019 and is expected to end on 18 December 2019. It should be noted that this work is part of a much larger project over a three-year period. For Ciney Station, these include upgrades, upgrades to the wharf facilities and a new sub-lane corridor with PMR access ramps. The current work schedule is August 2019 to August 2022. In order to enable this essential work to be carried out, changes had to be made at the train level. One train was completely cancelled and three trains were replaced by buses. Finally, the measures that have been adopted to improve the robustness of the line during the work are as follows: the departure time of some trains is adapted to take account of the work and a new connection between tracks A and B from September 2020 is planned. I would add, Mrs Thibaut, that during 2018, new safety requirements were imposed by the SSICF at Infrabel, which now prohibits the movement of trains on one track when working on the other track. Formerly, one could work on one track and allow trains to pass on the other track that was not under construction. Since mid-2018, it has been banned. When working on a track in a consistent manner, the entire line must be closed and trains replaced by buses, which greatly disrupts the situation, but fulfils the requirements that were formulated by the SSICF in Infrabel in the course of 2018.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u111	Minister, you are as sad as I am at this situation. Indeed, this one is really complicated. We're accumulating the difficulties. Some could have been anticipated. Many works combine at the same time, to achieve better quality. I hope that the modified departure times will make things right. We are about to experience many difficulties at Ciney Station in the coming months. It is a pity that the quality of the service decreases in this way, while this line is attractive. We'll be patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u112	Mr Minister, SNCB's budgets provide for EUR 50 million for replacement buses. The latter are used when the lines are cut off to carry out infrastructure work, as an alternative in the event of defects in rolling stock or in the event of passenger collisions. Where are we in the use of this amount today? What amounts are actually used in 2016, 2017 and 2018? How much of this expenditure is re-billed to third parties and which ones? What percentage of km/train is the use of these buses? What is the evolution of this percentage for 2016, 2017 and 2018? What is the breakdown of replacement bus costs by province?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u113	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, replacement buses are used when lines are cut off to carry out infrastructure work, as an alternative when rolling stock is defective or when passengers are hit. As of October 31, 2019, the total annual budget for SNCB was consumed. SNCB expects to exceed the 2019 budget by EUR 1.5 million. At the accounting level, SNCB recorded expenditures of $4 million in 2016. At that time, the budget was 3.4 million. It recorded expenditures of 5.4 million in 2017 for a budget of 3.7 million. It recorded expenditures of $6.3 million in 2018 for a budget of $5.1 million. SNCB does not track the kilometres for replacement buses, and bus companies do not provide SNCB with reports on the kilometres travelled during their replacement activities. SNCB is therefore not in a position to answer this question. There is no provincial tracking of expenditures at the replacement bus level, for example, due to the large number of construction sites or unforeseen incidents, replacement service operates in several provinces. Moreover, there is no monitoring of bus companies over the kilometres produced on the basis of the road infrastructure of the Regions. SNCB is therefore not in a position to answer this question. There is no specific allocation to SNCB to cover the costs of replacement buses. SNCB itself provides an annual amount in order to anticipate this expenditure. In its operating budget, SNCB provides for a budget of 4.4 million for the setting up of replacement buses organised during work planned by Infrabel and in the event of incidents. The latter are by definition not predictable.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u114	Minister, last week there were several incidents on the trail with significant delays during the morning rush. It is said that these incidents are related to the winter cold. However, SNCB and Infrabel have a winter plan to ensure that rail traffic can also run smoothly in winter conditions. In this context, Infrabel has announced that there will be a 'running train', a new weapon to reduce the impact of the freezing cold on train traffic by spraying a biodegradable anti-freeze gel on the overhead lines, as apparently happens in Italy. Mr. Secretary, is the winter plan in force yet? Does it enter into force annually at the same time? Could you briefly indicate what measures are included and which are the responsibility of Infrabel or SNCB? Were there any incidents during the last week that could be attributed to the winter cold? Do you have any figures on the evolution of the number of delays and abolished trains due to winter conditions? Can it be derived whether the impact of winter conditions is reducing or increasing in recent years?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u115	Mr Vandenbroucke, the common winter plan of SNCB and Infrabel describes the infrastructure, equipment and human resources to keep the reception infrastructure for customers snow free. In the event of extreme winter weather, SNCB's services consist, on the one hand, of keeping or making accessible accesses to the stations, the stops and the station environments, with particular reference to accesses to the platforms, the platforms themselves and the parking facilities. On the other hand, train equipment also requires a specific approach. In the event of severe night frost, the locomotives and motor vehicles remain under tension. At temperatures below zero degrees Celcius the material is heated so that a temperature of five degrees Celcius is maintained. This is done in order to make the first departure of the trains as smooth as possible. Specific winter maintenance works are planned, such as an additional examination of the heating, coupling equipment, the pantograph and pneumatic circuits. Just before the first departure, the electrical installations on the train are ventilated to prevent condensation. A locomotive is equipped with a special steel sledgehammer to scrape ice off the overhead line. In the case of vehicles running on high-risk lines, the pantograph's sledgehammers are given special protection. In the workshops additional technicians are provided to repair defective equipment as quickly as possible. Antifreeze shall be applied to the movable parts of the doors to avoid blocking. Finally, if necessary, an alternative transport plan will apply.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u116	We thank the Minister. We have exhausted the agenda. Perhaps also Mr. Minister because it was a long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u117	No, I'm not exhausted. I'm still holding meetings in your area tonight, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-27-55-commissie-ic061x.u118	Colleagues, I shall adjourn the session.
