ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u1	Madam President, Minister, the Royal Decree of 25 October 2018 sets an online playing limit of EUR 500 per week in Article 6. Practice shows that it is not being respected. Although the KB stipulates that a player can charge up to 500 euros, including all gambling games and bets in which he can participate, the playing limit per website is applied and not globalised. In addition, the addendum to the Royal Decree states: "The computerisation of the link between the Gaming Commission and the credit centre to individuals of the National Bank of Belgium shall determine the entry into force of Article 6 (1) by 1 January 2019. If this computerisation could not be carried out in time, the entry into force could be postponed by a Royal Decree. According to the KB, the limit had to be introduced on 1 January 2019, otherwise a new KB was needed. But according to our information, the necessary link to the National Bank has not yet been established, although 1 January 2019 was considered a realistic estimate. Nor does there seem to be any new KB that postpones its entry into force. This creates a legal vacuum. I have the following questions for you. Firstly, are you aware that the 500 euro playing limit is currently being applied per website? If so, do you think this is in accordance with the RB? Why is that? Why is that? If not, would you like to take action against this? If not, would you like to investigate this further, and against when? Secondly, can you confirm whether or not the playing limit was meant to include all websites? This is evident from a clear reading of the text. Thirdly, different websites would not implement the limit. Are you aware of that? If no, do you want to act against it, and how? If so, what steps have you taken in the meantime to act against this? Fourth, according to the addendum to the Royal Decree, 1 January 2019 was a realistic deadline to establish the link with the National Bank. Still, that link isn't there yet. What's the reason for this? How far is the consultation with the National Bank going and when can a solution be expected? Fifthly, the addendum states that the entry into force can be postponed by a Royal Decree. According to our information, a new KB doesn't seem to exist yet, so there is now a legal vacuum. Are you aware of this situation? If so, what does your lecture say in practice? What have you done to cure this? By when can a solution be expected? If no, by when do you wish to find a solution, and what does this solution consist of?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u2	Mr Van Hecke, as regards the deposit limit, pursuant to Article 6, § 1, 1° of the Royal Decree, licence holders A+, B+ and F1+ must apply the deposit limit of EUR 500 to their own website. A shared system that keeps track of all deposits doesn't exist yet. That is now being technically developed. It should be noted, however, that this is only a temporary situation. In time, the deposit limit will be applied across all websites. The implementation of this system takes time. The administrative and budgetary procedure and the technical adjustments are in full swing. In addition, it may also be necessary to amend the Gaming Act in the light of the GDPR. It should be noted that the Royal Decree states that there is a maximum deposit limit of EUR 500. The player can always lower his self-chosen limit with immediate effect. A possible increase will only apply after three days and under no circumstances can the maximum deposit limit of 500 euros be exceeded. In the event of infringements, the Gaming Commission may act as a sanction. Within the committee, a subcommittee was set up to deal with the implementation of the Royal Decree. This subcommittee today reports to the Gaming Commission on how the Royal Decree should be applied in practice. A circular on the subject shall then be published. The Subcommittee also received a delegation from the National Bank for the practical implementation of the connection between the Gaming Commission and the National Bank's Central Bank for loans to individuals, the so-called list of defaulters. The development of the information system to enable this connection at the Gaming Commission is carried out by a company that develops custom software for the Gaming Commission. A budget has been requested for the project. For a large part of this budget, a positive opinion has already been obtained from the Finance Inspector. As regards legal uncertainty, the provisions of the relevant Royal Decree entered into force on 1 June 2019. However, for these who relate to the link with the credit centre of the National Bank of Belgium, the practical implementation is still awaiting, given the considerable technical and IT work.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u3	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It may be a temporary situation, but it has been going on for some time now, namely since 1 January 2019. However, the Royal Decree stipulated that a new KB would be introduced at the time of non-time entry into force. But that KB didn't come. You're actually implicitly confirming that. You say that each player can lower their own limit. However, we have tested it ourselves for a while and the websites are mostly inviting to raise the limit. With a simple mouse click one can go to 2,500 or even 5,000 euros, unlimited even. So it is not only possible to lower the limit. It is also very difficult to find out how the limit should be lowered, but very easy to raise. So, Minister, there is work to be done. The protection of the player, the gambler and people with a gambling addiction is not guaranteed despite the existing texts. I simply note that the Gaming Commission is not acting and is very lax, just like the policy in its entirety. This will also be reflected in the other questions on gambling legislation, which will be discussed in the near future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u4	We now come to Question No Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr Van Hees, Mr I see, however, that the questioner is not present. We haven't heard from him either. His question therefore lapses in principle.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u5	Madam President, Mr Van Hees asks that his question No 55000148C be turned into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u6	We shall have his question No. Transform 55000148C into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u7	Madam President, Minister, according to the end-of-term report of the prison supervisory commission, the decisions to place the Deradex wing are often stereotyped and merely justify the existence of information justifying the placement, but without expressly specifying it. This is in contrast to your commitment made a few months ago in our committee, in the words: "In the wake of the tragedy that took place in Liège before the summer of 2018, we decided to develop an even better system for detecting so-called radicalized profiles." Unfortunately, this is not the only criticism made by the committee in its report, since it also specifies two problematic aspects. Inmates have no specific remedies against placement decisions in this section. In addition, their rights are limited in relation to other categories of detainees: permission must be sought to take a shower or clean their cells. Inmates are confined to two, three or four square metres in private meadows, fenced under a concrete roof so high that they never see the light of day. In the long run, the Commission recommends the closure of the Deradex section of Ittre prison for the benefit of satellite wings, with specially qualified and trained personnel accompanying the detainees. These findings are problematic in the light of our commitments to respect the rights of detainees and to reduce recidivism upon their release from prison. They are all the more regrettable given that in committee on 26 April 2017, you announced that the evaluation of the Deradex wings was being finalized and that the results of the latter were therefore not yet known. Re-examined by Mr.Maingain almost two years later in committee on January 23, 2019, you repeated that the special Deradex deradicalization sections were being evaluated. Minister, when will the work of the Deradex sections and satellite prisons on deradicalization be precisely defined, so as to distinguish them? What is the current procedure for detecting the profiles of Deradex wing inmates? Will this procedure continue to evolve? Does every prison now have a reference in radicalism? Commitments had already been made to that end. What answers do you give to the members of the prison supervisory committee? Have you met with them since the publication of their report? Finally, what measures have been put in place upstream, more generally, so that the prison is no longer a ground for radicalism?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u8	Madam President, Mrs Rohonyi, the target group of the Deradex sections and the satellite sections is very different. Prisoners who encourage radicalization may be placed in a Deradex section to protect others from any influence on disengagement. The central starting point is containment. This means that the administration wants to prevent other vulnerable prisoners from radicalizing under the influence of radical extremist elements in the prison. Prisoners who are vulnerable to radicalization, who can be influenced and who are on the path to radicalization are referred to a satellite prison where they are working on a process of disengagement. The disengagement programme is being developed by the Communities in close cooperation with the prison administration. All these detainees are identified on the basis of the facts for which they were convicted and/or on the basis of behavioural indicators that effectively establish that they incite others to radicalize. The decision to classify must be reasoned and based on the assessment of the individual's risks and needs. Of course, the classification can be revised at each time of detention, when the behaviour and needs of the person concerned change positively or negatively. The recruitment of coordinators to ensure the link between prisons and Selex services and the appointment of local contact points on radicalisation are planned for autumn 2019. Imams also work in all prisons. In addition, there is an offer of humanitarian workers through the Communities. The recommendations of the Ittre Supervisory Commission have been carefully read. Initiatives are being taken with regard to the entry and exit policy, with the aim of expanding the supply for prisoners who are changing positively, also outside the section. It is true that there are infrastructural limits. A file was submitted to the Régie des Bâtiments for an increase in the area of the meadow at Ittre prison. The report of the Supervisory Commission was an end-of-mandate document. Since a new committee was set up in early September, there was no contact on this report. Finally, there are clear structures and working relationships with internal and external partners in the area of information collection and exchange as well as in the area of aid. Staff members are trained, e.g. by e-learning, to recognize signs of radicalization, so that they can act quickly. Standardised evaluation tests will be carried out.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u9	Minister, I hear that initiatives are being taken and I welcome them. In addition, the new supervisory commission has been set up. It is precisely an opportunity to work with her. It is important that your measures are in line with the needs of the field. Allow me to invite you to consult with this body. The more you act in this direction, the more successful your measures will be. Nevertheless, the existence of radicalized profiles in prison does not leave me concerned. OCAM recently reported that 40 per cent of released persons who had previously presented such profiles remained radicalized. It is important to continue to work on this issue, which is crucial for the safety of our citizens. Perhaps the Committee on Justice could hold hearings. I'll send you a letter to that effect.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u10	Minister, on 9 August, the Brussels appeal court ruled that virtual bets organised by Ladbrokes today are illegal. On penalty of periodic penalty payments, the company must stop the machines with virtual games of chance. The reason for the judgment, and later the appeal judgment, is that Ladbrokes does not comply with the Royal Decree of 22 December 2010. Although the KB requires this, the machines are not equipped with eID readers, and can be wagered and won more than allowed. That situation is not new. In July 2017, Ladbrokes' license for virtual bets was revoked by the Gaming Commission. Yet Ladbrokes continued to offer them. Only on 3 April 2018 did Ladbrokes stop those activities, on penalty of a penalty, but only for one day. A month later, a KB gave a legal anchor to virtual bets, after which Ladbrokes could offer them again, but without the company following the rules, as was established in the judgment of the appeal court. The pattern is quite clear: Ladbrokes violates the law and only after competitors intervene is it about a trade dispute and lodge a complaint about false competition, a court finds that there is an illegality. However, the Gaming Commission is responsible for controls and sanctions. The fact that the Gaming Commission is not responsible for control, but infringements of gambling legislation are found after complaints from competitors, other gambling companies, raises questions about the functioning of the Gaming Commission. I have the following questions. Firstly, how come the Gaming Commission has not acted in recent years against virtual games of chance that were clearly illegal? Why was it not checked for essential aspects such as the use of the eID, the stakes and the profits? Why didn't the Gaming Commission start a new sanction procedure against Ladbrokes? Secondly, how many complaints about illegal gambling or violations of the law have been received by the Gaming Commission over the last three years or directly by the Public Prosecutor? What action has been taken on these complaints? Thirdly, how many findings of infringements did the Gaming Commission make in the last three years? How often and for what purpose did the Gaming Commission then start a sanction procedure? What was the outcome of these procedures? How often was a pv sent to the parquet after checking? Fourthly, what action has been taken on the pvvs sent to the parquets? How many of these complaints have led to a dismissal, a friendly settlement or a subpoena? How many convictions were finally pronounced? Fifthly, how often has the Gaming Commission decided over the last three years, after a decision to dismiss, even though the infringement was committed, to impose a fine?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u11	Mr Van Hecke, the Attorney General of Brussels has informed my policy cell and the Gaming Commission of the relevant judgment of the Court of Appeal in Brussels. It concerns a judgment given following a previous judgment of the court of commerce of 2018 in a civil dispute brought by the Federation of Cafés of Belgium (FedCaf) against Derby SA, the company behind the Ladbrokes brand, concerning the offer of the so-called games of chance at virtual sporting events by the latter. The judgment indeed states that on 12 December 2018, 23 February 2019 and 29 February 2019, such games of chance were offered in three Ladbrokes agencies while ignoring the rules set out in the Royal Decree of 4 May 2018 on games of chance on virtual sporting events in the fixed gaming facilities of Class IV. The Gaming Commission requested access to the documents on the basis of which the judgment was delivered in order to initiate any sanction procedure. The Monitoring Service of the Secretariat of the Gaming Commission carries out regular checks on gaming facilities and has also specifically focused on compliance with the provisions governing games of chance at virtual sporting events. On 27 July 2018, the Gaming Commission suspended Derby SA's licences because of the illegal organisation of games of chance at virtual sporting events prior to the publication of the KB which regulates its organisation. The sanction was implemented, but a procedure for the Council of State is still pending. On 26 November 2018, the Supervisory Authority established two infringements in respect of targeted checks on compliance with the rules on gambling at virtual sporting events, in particular in the agencies in the judicial districts of East Flanders and Liège. Two terminals were seized. In the case of criminally prosecutable infringements, the two competent prosecutors were informed by means of a report. The Liege parquet started an investigation, which is still running. The court of Ghent has returned the file for administrative handling to the Game Commission, which will decide on an administrative sanction, once the Liège Public Prosecutor has made a final decision. Following the judgment of the Court of Appeal in Brussels, both in August and September 2019, monitoring actions were carried out specifically in relation to games of chance at virtual sporting events. No further infringements were found. In addition, punctual checks are carried out on a regular basis in the betting offices linked to different gambling operators. Those controls relate to the other provisions of the Gaming Act and the implementing acts. In some cases, administrative and criminal infringements have been identified, which are always prosecuted in accordance with the Gambling Act. New controls will continue to be carried out in the near future to ensure compliance with the gaming law in general and the rules on games of chance at virtual sporting events in particular.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u12	Minister, I saw that I did not read my second question, which was put together, but you answered it. It is indeed very important that the Gaming Commission really does act. It has been established and it is known which providers commit which infringements. There have been convictions, there have been findings, so we know where to check again. It is really important that infringements of gambling legislation are taken seriously. We must not wait for disputes between competitors, because they want to take a piece of the market away from each other, even though this will reveal the illegalities. You have given a number of examples in which the Gaming Commission has acted. I'm gonna make a call to make sure she takes that seriously. I hope the parquets will do the same. After all, I now hear that the public prosecutor is talking about administrative handling and reference to the Gaming Commission. In this case, I do not think it would be illogical for the court to turn it into a matter of principle and prosecute it in criminal matters. That may be the only language some companies understand, so that they adhere strictly to the law. By the way, on the day that Ladbrokes' games of chance were stopped following the suspension of that company's licence at FedCaf's request, the granddaughter of the president of FedCaf was kidnapped for one day. A judicial investigation was initiated. That's the world we're talking about. That's what I wanted to give you. The situation is very serious. Both the Gaming Commission and the parquet must act very hard.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u13	Madam President, Minister, my question concerns an interpretation issue in the reform of company law, reducing the number of forms of company. We know that in the construction sector the form of a temporary commercial company was regularly used, while the form of a temporary partnership must now be used. Minister, you may have read the written version of my question. My specific question is when exactly the activities can start in accordance with the Code of Economic Law, since they must then be registered in the FBO. As far as temporary companies, formerly temporary commercial companies, are concerned, there is indeed a certain degree of uncertainty as to the start of operations. Is that when we actually start work on the execution of construction works or, according to a second interpretation, at the start of the preparatory work to register for such a project? If the second interpretation is true, this means that there are a lot of administrative duties to be done in the CBO and in the accounting system, while there is not even any certainty that society will actually develop a real activity later on. Hence the feeling that there is a lack of clarity in this area in the sector. What do you think is the start of activities of temporary membership in such scenarios?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u14	Madam President, Mr Lachaert, the notion of a company subject to registration is defined on the basis of the general concept of enterprise. Companies without legal personality are in principle covered by the general definition of an undertaking in Article I.1, 1° of the Economic Law Code. As such, they are in principle subject to the obligation to register in the FBO if they are established under Belgian law in accordance with Article III.49 of the WER, or have a registered office, branch or branch in Belgium, pursuant to the same provision. In accordance with Article III.49, the obligation to register shall apply for the start of their activities. These provisions shall apply both to legal persons, to natural persons who are self-employed and to organisations without legal personality. In the case of legal persons, registration shall take place after the formal date of formation, even if the activities of the legal person have not yet started. For natural persons, the obligation to register shall apply prior to the actual start of the activities. Is the obligation to register more consistent with that of a legal person or with that of a natural person with an independent professional activity when it comes to a membership? The Explanatory Memorandum, document No. 54/2828/001, page 6 states that "the company must also register in the CBO without legal personality, if it participates in legal transactions and assumes rights and obligations with third parties'. This shows that the creation of a temporary, in the sense of short-term membership by the contractors for the award of a construction project is simply not sufficient to call for registration. In the case raised by you, the obligation to register shall apply as soon as the contractors concerned are appointed as performers of the works, even if the works have not yet begun. However, the membership which prepares only a tender and which is automatically dissolved if the contract is not awarded to the partnership shall not be subject to registration. Such membership shall not take part in legal proceedings unless it is a one-off tender for the submission of the tender, which shall be of a purely preparatory nature. If the contract is not awarded and this partnership does not further develop other activities, there is no social interest in imposing an obligation to tender.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u15	That seems to me to be a clear and correct answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u16	Madam President, I had tabled another question which was included in the questionnaire of 12 September, but it was not included in the current questionnaire. I did not keep an eye on it, but was that question perhaps referred to another committee, although it was originally included in the agenda of this committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u17	Apparently, the subject matter of this question falls within the competence of the Government of the Buildings and the question was referred to the Mobility Committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u18	Minister, recently it became clear that the ban on smoking in Brussels cafes is not being complied with. On one night, inspectors of the Public Health Office found that more than half of 97 cafes visited were not in conformity with the legislation. Since the checks were carried out overnight, the percentage of infringements was higher than the average of 34%, but this is still significantly higher than the average in Flanders, 12%, or in Wallonia, 10%. According to Chief Inspector Paul Van den Meerssche, the feeling of impunity is an important cause for that difference. Fines that are not paid would almost automatically be dismissed by the court. That was his explanation. That is why I have the following questions for you. First of all, is it true that pvvs for violation of the smoking ban are being dismissed by the public prosecutor? Secondly, do there exist specific agreements with, or guidelines for, the public prosecutors in our country? If so, which one? Thirdly, can you give the figures for the three regions, for the last three years, on the number of pvvs made for a violation of the smoking ban, the number of sequestrations, the number of convictions and the number of acquittals, each with regard to both the operators and the café visitors? Fourthly, do you think there is a need for a similar approach for the whole country? If so, what initiatives have you already taken? If not, why not?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u19	Mr Van Hecke, in reply to your question, I received the following information from the public prosecutor. As early as 2011, the Public Prosecutor's Office established a model of debatable directive on the handling and prosecution of infringements of the smoking ban in hospitality matters. A step-by-step prosecution of infringements is envisaged. In particular, it calls for criminal prosecution if the administrative handling of the infringements does not lead to the intended outcome. However, serious infringements must be delivered immediately to the public prosecutor. The tobacco control services and the BFSA also meet twice a year with the main coordinator of the Medicines and Food Crime Expertise network to coordinate policies and optimise enforcement. That has so far been done in a constructive way. The Drug and Food Crime Expertise Network is also kept continuously informed through memos of changes in tobacco legislation and relevant case law. As for many matters, the King's Attorney in Brussels must make choices in his prosecution policy. The report on smoking bans is therefore not simply dismissed by the public prosecutor but dealt with in accordance with a well-defined policy of prosecution. However, the content of these directives is not disseminated in order not to render them ineffective. Finally, the College informs me that the requested figures cannot be provided.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u20	Madam President, Minister, it was a bizarre answer, but you gave it because you received that information from the public prosecutor. The fact that a parquet has to make choices is a fact. You said it wasn't easy to dismiss, but there aren't many kinds of dismissals. If an unsub is not known, one cannot prosecute, but in this case the perpetrators are known and are still dismissed. This is obviously happening on the basis of a directive which you cannot give me. So there are apparently secret guidelines on the basis of which a prosecutor of the King judges whether to dismiss or not. In Brussels, apparently, the directive is: drop it. This is not the case in the rest of the country, but in Brussels, as the Superintendent has accused, they are simply dismissed. And then it is surprising that there are many more infringements in the case of checks. After a while, those café operators of course also realize that nothing happens to that report. Mr. Secretary, I can hear you sighing up to here. It's a goddamn complaint. I'm trying to use a language that you can clearly understand. Wouldn't it be helpful to contact the Brussels Attorney General? On what basis can existing directives be kept secret? I do not know if they are kept secret from you, but they are kept secret from Parliament. This seems bizarre to me. The fact that no figures can be provided is a bit like the disease of the last few months. Since yesterday, however, we know why; there seems to be a moratorium on answering parliamentary questions at the Office for Statistics of the Office for Official Publications of the European Communities. Because you do not provide enough staff, you still refuse to answer parliamentary questions. That is why we are no longer getting clear figures. I would ask you to make sufficient staff available to the Statistical Office of the Office for Official Publications of the European Communities, so that we can get proper answers to our legitimate questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u21	Minister, the Court of Auditors recently published a report on the operation of the Alimony Claims Service, DAVO. In that report, the Court of Auditors recommends that the Minister of Justice, together with the legislator, take the necessary initiatives to create the central file of judgments, judgments and documents that grant maintenance money, as provided for by a law of 2014....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That's recommendation No. 1 on page 73 of the report. According to the Court of Auditors, it would be possible to avoid that the citizen requesting an intervention should provide the DAVO with the original of the enforceable title which records or amends the maintenance money.' Furthermore, it says: "The law should be amended for this purpose. Such administrative simplification would eliminate the risk of errors if there were different judgments. Mr President, I have the following specific questions. Firstly, why has the central record of judgments, judgments and documents granting maintenance money not yet been established? Secondly, what steps have you taken in recent years to set up this central file? Thirdly, by when do you intend to establish this central file?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u22	Mr Van Hecke, the creation of a central register of judgments, judgments and instruments granting maintenance benefits, as provided for in Article 9 of the Law of 12 May 2014, has always been framed within the FPS Justice in a larger project to establish a general database of all judgments and judgments. This is a limited version of the wider database. As regards the state of play with regard to the implementation of that general database, I refer to my detailed answers to the same oral questions from the previous legislature, Nos. 26271, 26308. A repetition of these answers would now take too much time, but for your convenience I brought a number of copies, which can be distributed. With regard to the notarial instruments containing commitments to pay maintenance money, it is likely to be possible to start on 1 January 2020 thanks to the adaptations to the legislative framework in potpourri legislation. The necessary implementing decision would be published before the end of this year. According to my information, the technical pathway will also be operational on 1 January 2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u23	Minister, we all know that the projects relating to the creation of databases for judgments have been dragging on for a long time. The law of 2014 that she prescribes now exists for five years. We all know that sometimes it takes some time to create databases. This is a major challenge, especially in the technical field, but we have been waiting for it for five years now. If there's anything that's of immediate use to a seeker, it is. Those people often have a hard time getting maintenance money. They then have a problem and have to take the step towards the DAVO, where they are often confronted with the request for authentic documents which they do not immediately have. I think it is really necessary that progress is made quickly, especially in order to tackle this problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u24	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Jadin's 55000338C is converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u25	Madam President, Minister, this year our country has experienced social movements that brought together citizens from different backgrounds. The common feature of these social actions is to oppose the government's austerity policy. These movements include yellow vests. The latter was born of a desire to act to change the ever-aggravating social situation and to improve a steadily deteriorating standard of living. We could have waited for a political response to their situation. But the government's response to these citizens has been reduced to repression and intimidation. To illustrate my point, I will quote the case of Robin Bruyère of Liège. He was thus summoned to the police station and is in danger of being prosecuted for a simple post Facebook. The police blamed him for the following statement: "The violence and humiliation of the police last week left their mark and pushed some to no longer come." This is a post as we see every day; except that Robin is a yellow vest and that his social engagement costs him a different treatment from the law enforcement. Is this the functioning of justice and police in a rule of law? The Liège Public Prosecutor's Office may be considered to be somewhat authoritarian and to abuse its power in this case. Robin's case is not isolated. Such acts have been reported to other public prosecutor's offices: in Namur, Charleroi and Flanders. After the attacks on trade union leaders, as we observed in Antwerp, and the intimidation of the yellow vests I have just exposed, we are concerned, Minister, about the guarantee of our fundamental rights such as freedom of expression and the right to demonstrate – the rights our institutions have the duty to protect, not to threaten. Mr Minister, is Mr Bruyère's statement punishable by deprivation of liberty, as was mentioned in the summons of the police? Are you aware of these arrests and intimidations? Does a directive of the Public Prosecutor's Office recommend special treatment with regard to yellow vests?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u26	Madam Chair, Mr Boukili, no information relating to a particular file can be provided in the context of an oral parliamentary question. However, when a citizen considers that he or she has not received proper treatment from a police service, he or she must apply to the Public Prosecutor's Office to file a complaint, to the P Committee or to the General Inspectorate of the Police Service. The Office of the Attorney-General of Liège confirms to me that no directive on the issue of yellow vests has been adopted by the Attorney-General of Liège.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u27	Minister, I hear your answer very well and thank you for it. However, these actions have increased since the emergence of the yellow vest movement. It seems to me anomalous that no directive has been taken on this subject, whereas yellow vests are treated differently than any other citizen. This Facebook post could have been written by anyone, but it was a member of this movement that was summoned. I find these actions rather doubtful, and that's why I questioned you. I therefore wish I had heard a clearer and more precise answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u28	Mr Minister, it is now clear that the Gaming Commission does not always have everything on its own. It's been that way for some time. Many questions have already been asked about this, but new elements are emerging. For example, La Dernière Heure announced at the beginning of September that 200 files on checks and sanctions would be blocked by the Gaming Commission. Moreover, the blacklist of the Gaming Commission has not been completed for eight months. This seems to be a serious error, which prevents the Gaming Commission from taking up its role as regulator and control body. This is, of course, detrimental to the protection of Belgian public health. First of all, is it true that there are 200 files blocked by the Gaming Commission? If so, were you aware of this? Can you tell me how many files are stuck today and what they relate to? Secondly, what is the reason for blocking the files? What measures have you taken to solve them? By when do you intend to eliminate the backlog? Thirdly, is it true that the blacklist of the Gaming Commission has not been completed for eight months? If so, were you aware of this? If not, will you investigate that further? Fourthly, in the event that the blacklist has not been supplemented, what is the reason for the delay? How many and which operators are still to be added to the list? What measures have you taken to resolve this problem? By when do you intend to eliminate the backlog? Fifth, La Dernière Heure reports that at least one operator should be on the list since March 2018 and that this is not the case. Which operator are we talking about? Does it mean that that operator can continue to act illegally without penalty until today? Sixthly, how do you intend to ensure that there are no similar problems in the future with the Gaming Commission?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u29	Mr Van Hecke, as regards the delay in the sanctions files, at the meeting of the Gaming Commission on 26 June last, the secretariat gave an update on the pending dossiers in order to plan the work of the committee. It's about 110 files. Ten files will be the subject of a decision in the near future. Fifty-nine files are related to police officers who participated in online gambling in 2017, which is prohibited by the Game Game Act. Eleven cases will soon be referred to the committee and twelve cases have been forwarded to the public prosecutor's office. In this respect, an answer is awaited as to whether or not the prosecution intends to take criminal action. Seven files relate to the holding of a licence without effective exploitation, which is also prohibited under the Gaming Act. One dossier is currently being analysed. Five cases of undeclared work involving a gambling operator were passed on to the other competent administrative authorities. The committee will also act afterwards. Five files relate to the blacklisting of illegal operators. The message in La Dernière Heure is wrong on that point. The conduct of a sanction procedure is strictly regulated by law and case law and may take several months. The composition of the committee may not be altered during the procedure in the same file with regard to a person. However, the Committee has been resigning since January 2019, but the current cases do not allow a reappointment of its members. The term of office of chairman of the committee is also due to expire in October. The President had chosen, pending clarification, to postpone certain dossiers temporarily, in order to prevent procedures from being duplicated. In the meantime, that decision has been revised and the remaining delay will be resolved within the next six months. As regards the blacklist of illegal gambling operators, the latest update of that list of Gaming Commissions dates from 8 April 2019. The list is always made public on the Committee's website. All illegal gaming providers are supposed to be blacklisted. In the event of such a determination, a report shall be drawn up for the public prosecutor and the committee may decide to be blacklisted. There is currently no abnormal delay. In the staff plan for the Secretariat of the Gaming Commission, I have entered twenty additional seats. Those staff will also be responsible for checks on legal and illegal operators. The recruitments are in full swing. In addition, I have made a strong effort to improve cooperation between the Commission and the police services in order to improve the image of the people who have been targeted and of the gaming institutions. Cooperation shall be further finalised in a protocol and at the operational level. The message in La Dernière Heure stating that a provider should have been blacklisted since March cannot be confirmed. The article refers to a certain gambling website. However, it is not currently possible to determine whether the website infringes the Belgian Gaming Act. The monitoring committee of the Gaming Commission is of course keeping that in mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u30	These are not 200 but 110 dossiers, in which you state that the aim is to eliminate the backlog. What strikes me is that 59 files relate to police officers who gamble, although their statute does not allow this to happen legally. In addition, it appears that there are waiting to see how the public prosecutor will act in 12 cases that have been transferred to the public prosecutor's office. I hope, as I have just said, that the court will take the files seriously and give them sufficient priority. If the Gaming Commission itself sends them to the court, the Gaming Commission must nevertheless consider that it is dealing with serious infringements, which is why it will not act on its own through other sanctions. So much for my reply, Minister. We will, of course, follow up on the issues, especially the issue of the one operator that apparently should have been on the list, but which is unclear as to whether he has indeed committed any infringements.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u31	Minister, on 12 July, the HRJ published its report on the control of the rulers by the peace courts, with remarkable conclusions. One of the conclusions is that the legislator's desire to give preference to family directors is not always respected. Often there remains a preference for professional directors. A second striking conclusion is that there is a need for clear and uniform selection criteria for directors. A third conclusion is that the cantons are side by side, with a wide variety of instruments and insufficient use of MACH's potential. A fourth conclusion is that not all peace courts are planning to consider how the control process can be improved and adjusted. Financial controls are not equally high quality and thorough for various reasons. There is a low level of awareness of fraud within the peace process and greater efforts should be made to address the risk of fraud and abuse in an organised, preventive and reactive manner. These are notable conclusions. I know that you have always paid attention to the importance of the proper implementation of the regime. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Firstly, what is the relationship today between the number of professional and family directors? In my second question, I refer to a public response to this report, in which you said that a draft law is in the process of implementing some of the HRJ's suggestions. For example, professional directors should receive training in the future, sign a code of ethics and have professional liability insurance. What is the state of play of the draft law? Thirdly, will measures be taken in the above-mentioned draft law to strengthen the control of fraud and abuse and to ensure a more uniform approach to the various peace courts?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u32	Mr Crombez, I have taken note of the report of the Supreme Court of Justice on the audit of the control of the regimes by the peace courts. I can also confirm that my policy cell has prepared a draft legislative text to lay down the conditions for the professional exercise of the function of director over a protected person. As far as your first question is concerned, I must inform you that I do not currently have any figures on the relationship between the number of family and professional directors. Despite the fact that the preference for the family director has already been registered in Article 496/3 of the Civil Code, the Hoge Raad claims that this provision is not always observed in practice. Therefore, the above-mentioned draft text reinforces the preferred position: "Only for exceptional reasons defined in the court order relating to the protection of the interests of the person placed in a system of assistance or representation will a professional director be able to be appointed." As far as your second question is concerned, I can confirm that the draft legislative text has now been submitted for advice to the desks, the presidents of the peace courts and the judges in the police courts, the Supreme Court of Justice and the National High Council for Persons with Disabilities. My policy cell will receive the opinions at the latest at the beginning of November. It is up to Parliament to consider whether and when the draft legislative text that can be finalised on the basis of these opinions can be further treated as a legislative proposal. As far as your last question is concerned, I can tell you that there are already several control mechanisms which allow the peace court to impose sanctions on the administrator in the event of fraud. It may be a reduction in his remuneration, a change in his job package or even his replacement by another director. The draft legislative text prepared by my policy cell offers new opportunities in the fight against fraud in the event of a professional director being appointed. Only recognised professional directors will be able to be appointed and they may lose their recognition or be suspended by a deontological committee. In addition, the draft also provides for the peace court to be able to register certain information on the suitability of the director, which may be taken into account by peace judges other than those in question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u33	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is a good thing that the tendency to look at family directors is strengthened. That is why I also linked it to the uniformisation of the peace courts, as there really seem to be a lot of differences. That needs to be followed up properly. I look forward to the advice that has been requested. I understand very well that Parliament has to decide on the matter. We have had that report since 12 July. I think it is important enough to ensure that, once the opinions are available, we plan the space with our Committee on Justice in order to do so quickly. I hope the other committee members will support that. I am, of course, looking forward to the new possibilities for detecting and sanctioning fraud and abuse. The search and detection is important. A proper investigation is, of course, necessary so that the peace judges can know that this is a good initiative where the problem directors are located, when assigning later directors.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u34	Madam President, Minister, this September 9th, the first transitional house for prisoners opened in Malines. A second will open in January in Enghien. These houses are part of a pilot project under the law of 11 July 2018 on various provisions in criminal matters. The Act provides for the possibility of placing detainees in small facilities, known as transitional homes, while reserving this option only to convicted persons who are at 18 months of their parole eligibility date. DeFI MPs abstained during the vote on this law, not because they did not support the principle of transitional houses, but rather because they considered that it lacked its objective by reserving this measure on the approach to the release from prison, while reintegration should be the red line of all detention, from beginning to end. For the rest, we obviously support these transition houses. We're happy to see them open. But what was not our surprise to read the royal decree of 22 July 2019 establishing the financial intervention of the federal state for the transitional houses of Malines and Enghien. This order provides that detainees will be monitored by the care branch of the private security company G4S, in collaboration with Exodus Nederland, a Dutch organisation specializing in the care of prisoners and former detainees, certainly, but in the Netherlands. Minister, the use of these two agencies calls for the following questions. Why and how have G4S and Exodus Nederland been chosen to follow up on detainees while many associations established in Belgium are already carrying out this mission in our prisons? Has this choice been made at the initiative of your firm, G4S or any other stakeholder? Has the cost of €900,000 at the end of a year, announced in the Royal Decree, been compared with other options such as the use of Belgian associations already active in the care of prisoners? When and how will these transition houses be evaluated? In the event of positive results, what we hope, would you be prepared to support an amendment to the law so that these "transitional" houses become detention houses, allowing, as far as possible, all prisoners to receive support with a view to their social reintegration, and not only at the end of the sentence?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u35	Madam President, Mr Minister, I am not going to recall the context that my colleague has already mentioned very well, but to stress that while we obviously welcome the choice to reinforce the policy of differentiated detention in the framework of the Prisons and Internance Masterplan, we believe that the core mission of a sovereign jurisdiction cannot be delegated to private companies, in order to guarantee to all individuals the guarantee of a sovereign state. Therefore, why have the management of transitional houses been entrusted to the private sector? How would private companies be better able to consider and assist an inmate at the end of the sentence considering his reintegration? Why have de facto outlawed those actors in the field who already have experience in monitoring and supporting detainees? What do you have in mind to ensure that a company does not pay more attention to its profits and the expectations of its shareholders than to guarantee the quality of an essential service in a healthy society, i.e. socio-professional reintegration? Finally, if this pilot project is successful, do you intend to generalize the method of tendering to the private sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u36	Madam Chair, I am not going to repeat the context either, but I am going to add that, on the Justice FPS site, it is written that G4S is responsible for the operations and professional support of inmates. Minister, you are aware that it is a global company, listed on the stock market, leader in security solutions and whose ethics are regularly challenged, particularly with regard to its involvement in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Who took the initiative of this public-private partnership subcontracting a public service mission to a multinational? What should we understand by "the exploitation of prisoners"? What are G4S's skills in terms of professional support for inmates? What concrete measures have been envisaged to exercise democratic control over the exercise of this mission despite its privatization?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u37	Madam President, Minister, while we welcome the pilot project in Malines, we question and even worry about the award of the contract to a private partner in a prerogative that has always been public. The press tells us that the fifteen places of the transition house will be intended for inmates at the end of the sentence so that they can learn about everyday activities such as meal preparation, laundry, administrative management, job and housing searches, etc. Forbidden during their stay, they will also be followed by psychologists, social workers and criminologists. While we truly welcome the establishment of these transition houses and the objectives pursued, we are surprised by the private sector's ownership of the project. The Association Syndicale des Magistrats, like us, is astonished at the under-treatment of the functions of Regal. Minister, according to news reports from the press, it is the private group G4S that will ensure not only the caretakership of this transitional house but also a form of guidance. In our view, this is a form of privatization of work which must remain public and which will compete with the Houses of Justice. Has this privatization been discussed with the Houses of Justice? What are the specifications that served as the basis for making this decision? How will this be monitored and evaluated thereafter? What are the qualifications of the people who will work there? What will be the cost of this role for companies that have won the award of the public contract? How much do you estimate the cost difference by entrusting it to the public partner? The Council of State invited you to justify your royal decrees granting the authorizations in particular. At this point, it does not seem to us that this has been done. Can you confirm that?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u38	Madam Chair, ladies and gentlemen, on November 18, 2016, Masterplan III, which provides for small-scale detention opportunities, namely transitional homes, was approved by the government. The legal basis was established by this Parliament on 11 July 2018. On 30 July of the same year, a call for applications for the operation of a transitional house – pilot projects in Flanders and Wallonia – was published at the Moniteur belge. The administration received seven applications for Flanders and eight for Wallonia. The jury consisted of prison experts. After two rounds of interviews and a visit to the available sites, all applications were carefully analysed. It was decided that the "Sterkhuis" project of G4S Care, in collaboration with Exodus Netherlands, would be selected as the preferred supplier for both Flanders, Malines and Wallonia in Enghien. For the following reasons, G4S Care and Exodus submitted a project with a solid business plan and an overview of the accompaniment and human aspect. First of all, their experience is proven, both for methodology – Exodus – and for safety – G4S Care. Then, all the proposed sites quickly became available – three months after the award – and were in compliance with the requirements, while enjoying a very good value for money. The advantages and disadvantages of each project were carefully analysed. According to the jury, the best project was chosen, without weakening the work that other organisations are already doing today in terms of prison support. In terms of balancing costs with other possibilities, this is a single project in Belgium, which cannot be compared with others. The prison administration will conduct an in-depth evaluation of the operation after one year, paying particular attention to the development of the project and the lessons learned. Continuous monitoring by the prison administration and the home prison is also planned. All information relating to the standards is contained in the Royal Decree, which sets them for approval as a transitional house and establishes the conditions for its operation. It was published at the Moniteur belge on August 7. It is in fact inherent in a pilot project that the first year consists mainly of a period of learning and development of the operation. As far as enlargement is concerned, I am convinced that, at the moment, we must focus on supporting prisoners at the end of their sentence. I do not speak today about any other possibilities that need to be considered in the future, in particular as a result of the evaluation of our pilot projects.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u39	Minister, thank you for your answer. I hear a call for candidates has been published. Fortunately, I want to say! However, I am surprised by your answer, in the sense that you explain that the company G4S was selected on the basis of its expertise in safety and Exodus Nederland for its experience in accompaniment. However, as you said yourself, what is crucial here to assess the effectiveness of this pilot project is the results we will achieve in terms of support. This is really the essential part of what is required of the transitional houses. However, you would have selected G4S Care for its expertise in safety and not accompaniment. I therefore believe that there is a problem with the motivation for selecting this private partner. We have already told you that we all support this project. I think, however, that the most important thing is to focus on reintegration. And the success of reintegration depends, on the one hand, on the success of the means put in place and on the time devoted to it. I hear you don't want to comment on an evolution of the model of a transitional house to a house of detention. But you still have to have it in mind. On the other hand, success also depends on the expertise of the people who take care of this reintegration. There is therefore a problem of consistency with the partners that have been selected. It is all these elements that will determine the success – we all hope – of this pilot project.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u40	Minister, thank you for these answers. However, I have the impression that there was no question here of why a private partner was chosen. We remained on the question of why this private partner. I regret not to hear anything else about supporting those in the field who, today, in the public service related to detention, sometimes encounter many difficulties and are not supported. I do not think that this kind of invitation to tender to the private sector further helps them to feel reassured that public services are being cared for in our society. I'm sorry about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u41	Minister, the question here is not how G4S won this offer, but why a private partner was used for a function that is supposed to be one of the government's competencies. That's what shockes us. The support of the detainees is a responsibility of the Ministry of Justice and not of a private company, especially since the multinational associated with this project is highly contested on certain aspects and benefits from the colonization of the Palestinian people while we reach an agreement with it. This mix of interests is unacceptable when it is really a public interest mission.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u42	Minister, indeed, there has been no answer to the question as to why the private sector is being used for a function that should be in the public sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u43	Madam President, Minister, on 15 July I promised to return to this subject because, as always, you said a lot of interesting things and asked for information. I had asked you at first whether you were prepared to pass on all the facts to Parliament in this matter. You replied at that time that you had to submit this question to the College of Attorney General for the secret of the investigation. I also asked you how, despite the fact that the perpetrator, Mr Bakelmans, had already withdrawn from his sentence three times, the judge came to the conclusion that the person concerned was not a flight risk. You replied that that information is kept in Sidis Suite and that the prosecution can always request this information. You also consulted with the College of Attorneys General to see what could be improved on the flow of that information. In fact, it is always about the same thing: there has been a horrible fact that could have been avoided. I think it is normal for Parliament to know in detail exactly what has happened, especially with regard to the future. I come to my questions. Firstly, can Parliament, after your consultation with the College of Attorney General, obtain a complete overview of the facts in this case? Secondly, the operation of the Sidis Suite database was examined by a working group. Has that working group made any recommendations? Are we approaching the moment that any criminal record can also be delivered digitally to a judge in order to avoid this kind of horrible case?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u44	Madam President, Mr Crombez, I have submitted your question to the College of Attorney General for a complete overview of the facts in this case. The College considers that no overview can yet be given. It is an ongoing judicial investigation which is subject to the obligations of the secret of the investigation. Public access at this stage of criminal investigation is not yet under discussion and may harm the rights of the parties, the tactics and validity of the investigation. The case is dealt with by an investigating judge and, at regular intervals, the boardroom shall examine the serious evidence of guilt and the extension of the provisional detention behind closed doors. Both the parquet and the seat have consultation access to the Sidis Suite database in which the penitentiary past of the inmate or suspect concerned can be investigated. In consultation with the magistrate, it was agreed that further and systematic consultations should be carried out, and that relevant documents should be added to the criminal record, both at the preliminary examination stage and at the substantive trial stage. The penitentiary administration has committed itself to making another presentation per resort on an optimal consultation of the various sections, including the reading of the detention sheets. In accordance with Article 593 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the prosecutors, investigators, peace judges and judges and assessors of the criminal courts shall have direct access to the criminal record. Those magistrates may delegate this power to persons under their authority. In the meantime, Mr Crombez, be convinced that I am doing everything I can, not only to think, but also to take concrete action to prevent such facts from repeating themselves in the future, although of course absolute security cannot be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u45	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I have no doubt that you will do everything possible to avoid such cases. I will never ask the question of complete safety because I also know that this is not possible. However, I do believe that we have been confronted with an incredible problem within the whole of our judicial system. We must not just look to the future to improve the problem. The question even arises how often such a thing has occurred. In 2019, it is unimaginable that a judge who has to make such an important decision does not have the necessary documents. The horrible incident itself is the fault of our system. It's not something that could take years. I fully understand the difficulties involved in the secrecy of the investigation and the risks to the current procedure. I have every sympathy for that. I have no idea how long the procedure will last. What I will not understand, however, is the possibility that the College will not adopt a positive attitude towards Parliament and that we will not be able to understand what has gone wrong in this respect. When it comes to procedures that last for a very long time, which can be perfect, it means that between the horrible incident and the moment when we will know very well what has gone wrong, we will pass a great deal of time. Parliament cannot let that happen. There has to be a way, therefore, that there is always a way, when it comes to such heavy matters, to ensure that we find out what has gone wrong and what the possibilities are for dealing with such problems. Consider that a support for everything you've already done. However, it is essential that action is taken. I will not simply accept the answer that it is not possible to pass on facts to Parliament. There must be a way of making Parliament very aware of what has gone wrong, with the terrible consequences as a result.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u46	I would add, exceptionally, that the Supreme Court, as you know, is currently auditing this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u47	I would like to add something very briefly. I hope that this committee will find a way by the time the Supreme Court is ready to do so in the foreseeable future. Maybe that's a good time for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u48	I know that these audits are usually handled with a certain degree of caution, not to bring something out, but because they are about people. We'll look into this. Your wise President will look into the extent to which an agreement can be reached with the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u49	Minister, it is a delicate issue to ask questions about, but I think I should ask them anyway because it concerns the process of the attacks of 22 March 2016 which left a deep impression. Of course, the security of such a process requires a lot of resources and is also difficult to organise. However, we must ask these questions, because it is not exceptional that a country should be faced with a complex, large or even dangerous process. The Council of Ministers has agreed to the proposal of Minister Reynders and yourself to establish the former NATO site as a temporary courthouse for the trial on the attacks of 22 March 2016. We were able to hear that the provisional price for this is EUR 20 million, but I assume that the cost of security by the police has not yet been included. It is therefore only the cost of infrastructure. For the trial on the attack on the Jewish Museum in Brussels, security alone cost 3.8 million euros. The total cost of this one process actually corresponds to the amount requested by the Public Prosecutor for the full implementation of his staffing framework. That's what I mentioned yesterday in the conversations about that. That is why we need to talk about this. I have the following questions, Minister. What is the preliminary cost estimate of the decision? In France, an old judicial palace will be used for the trial of the attacks in Paris. The French trial is even bigger than the Belgian: it concerns 1,700 bourgeois parties and more than 300 lawyers. According to our information, this operation would cost several million euros, which is a lot lower than our estimates. Wasn't such an alternative considered with us? Major trials have already taken place in Belgium, for example the Citibank trial in 2009, where more than 1,500 victims and 160 lawyers were present. In such trials, however, it is not the case that all those bourgeois parties and lawyers are always present. This usually applies only to the opening and closing session. This requires a very large capacity. For the proper conduct of a process, agreements can always be made. Therefore, it was decided to hold the introductory session at the Brussels Event Brewery event hall in the Citibank process. The other sessions took place at the Brussels Palace of Justice, because they were far fewer people. Has a similar scheme been envisaged, which would only cost part of what is now envisaged? Can a regulation be drawn up whereby a large turnout at the opening and closing session is possible, but where the other sessions take place in the court palace, even with live streaming? The second and third questions concern alternatives which exist, which are used in France and which we ourselves have already used. The key question is whether these alternatives, which cost much less, have been thoroughly considered.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u50	Minister, I would like to join Mr Crombez in his question. I had first submitted my question in writing, but I turned it into an oral question in order to be able to agree. Allow me to make the point that a great many questions are being asked here today which can perfectly be submitted in writing. It's about questions about data and figures. I know that we are in current cases and that this twenty-day period should not be respected, but the question can still be put as an oral question afterwards. I think this is an overload on the system. That was a thought I wanted to make here. Minister, I come to my questions on the subject, which Mr Crombez has already explained. How can you justify the amount, given the chronic lack of resources in the Justice Department? Wouldn't it be better to invest in infrastructure that is not temporarily used for Justice, but which can be used permanently?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u51	Minister, this is indeed a delicate question. After all, the many victims of the terrorist attacks and society rightly expect the process to be conducted correctly. Nevertheless, there is a very high cost involved, while the resources of justice are not too great, especially taking into account the problems that still exist in the area of justice. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Can you bring some transparency about the decision to opt for the NATO building? Were any other locations considered? Why was this location finally chosen? Can you explain more about the estimated cost of EUR 17 million, which is apparently now up to EUR 20 million? Have you thought about the modern system of videoconferencing, which is still an opportunity to hear suspects who may pose a very serious security risk? They could attend their trial in that way.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u52	Mr Minister, it is clear that democratic justice requires time and resources. Nevertheless, with 0.7% of the budget allocated to justice, Belgium is far below the European average of 2.2%. Recall that more than 34 justices of peace, which are closest to citizens, have been closed in recent years. Recently, it was reported that the trial of the 22 March 2016 attacks in Brussels will take place in the former NATO premises, now empty. This historic trial is also announced as the most expensive in Belgian judicial history. The necessary adjustments have been estimated at over EUR 17 million. In comparison with some European countries that have been victims of terrorist attacks, our judicial expenditure could be three times higher than theirs. Minister, how are you going to release the necessary funds without putting other components of our judicial order in trouble? Has the terms of reference for the development work already been drawn up? If so, can we get a copy? If not, can you give us an exact breakdown of the criteria used to obtain this estimate? What will this infrastructure be allocated to after the trial is closed?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u53	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on 22 March 2016, our country was shocked by attacks. The judicial investigation into these attacks is now under way. The magistrate urged me several times to quickly and anticipately find a suitable location for the assist process and to make work on the practical preparations. None of you will question the importance and the need to organise this process, which is more than an ordinary process, in good conditions. I can confirm that the government will make all the means available for the proper conduct of this trial, without, however, being able to advance an exact amount. This does not mean that the money would not be spent wisely. Each process and expenditure will be subject to administrative and budgetary control. In this regard, these are additional resources which are made available on a complementary basis. These expenses will have no impact on the normal functioning of judicial services. So far, the Council of Ministers has only agreed that a public contract would be launched for those matters which are absolutely necessary for the organisation of the process. This concerns the maintenance of the site, the facility and the part of the security that cannot be included by the police, such as access control. At present, only the phase in which the parties involved manifest themselves has been launched. It is only after, on the basis of selection criteria, that the selected parties will receive the specifications which is being finalized. I am therefore not yet in a position to give further details on this subject. The commitment by the government is only final when a contract is awarded, and not when it is launched. I have heard references to other major processes of the past, but I would like to stress that they cannot in any way be compared with this assistive process. I understand the number of people present can fluctuate. The federal prosecutor speaks of many defendants and almost a thousand bourgeois parties. In the building itself there will be rooms where one can follow the process on a screen. On the basis of a report by the competent department within the FPS Justice and an external study firm, I have to conclude that, for practical and operational reasons, the process cannot be held in the Brussels Justice Palace. In addition to operational and practical objections, the normal operation of the palace would be prevented for up to one year. If it had been a realistic option, that choice would certainly have been made. A number of other courthouses were also examined in terms of availability, flexibility of the rooms to be set up, security options, accessibility, etc., but no courthouse met. Other commercial sites were also investigated, but soon they turned out not to be an option either, because of the uncertain agenda. After all, nobody knows exactly when the process will start and how long it will take. Moreover, these commercial sites were also more expensive, due to rent costs, less basic infrastructure, higher security costs and so on. Before concluding the final award of the public contract, the conclusions of the report will be discussed in the working group accompanying the preparation of the process. In addition to the FPS Justice, the magistrate and the police and security services also participate. Finally, I would like to stress that a large part of the costs involved are security and security costs that must be paid and spent regardless of location.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u54	Thank you for your reply, Minister. It would be interesting for us to see the report of the Finance Inspectorate at the first discussion in the Council of Ministers. Is it possible to deliver that report to the committee? For this committee, I also think the report on the evaluation of the usefulness of the Palace of Justice is interesting, because there are sometimes major processes there. Alternatives were investigated and I understand the considerations. In your reply, you pointed out that other major processes are not comparable to this process. That is absolutely true, and that was reflected in my question. The security requirements will be different from a lawsuit against a bank even though. In France, it is about a process around the same subject matter. Since the size of the potential cost is so high, it seems essential to me, as long as the government does not allow it, to explore the possibilities. In this sense, it would also be interesting to assess the security costs in relation to the installation and infrastructure costs of the building. This will also clarify what is avoidable and avoidable in terms of costs. If security costs are proportionately high, this reduces the relevance of our demand. I'll report it myself. In this sense, the information requested would be very useful.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u55	Minister, I understand the importance and seriousness of this process, and I also understand that the necessary resources need to be put in place, but I do not understand why this is for a temporary infrastructure that cannot be used later.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u56	Minister, I understand the considerations. We look forward to the final decision, because I understand from your answer that the matter is not yet complete. However, I did not receive an answer to my last question as to whether a video conference had been considered, so that not all the persons, parties or suspects involved should always be present. I know that a judgment of the Constitutional Court once again calls for new legislative work, but this is a cost-effective system that can also bring great added value in terms of security.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u57	Minister, I understand that the terms of reference are not yet final. Would it be possible to dispose of it once it is finished? In addition, I did not have an answer regarding the assignment of the building. What is it going to do? Will it be used by Justice later?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u58	Madam President, Minister, with this question I am making a sudden switch on the subject. It's my last question for today, too. I don't want to overload the system too much, like before. Early this year, the Flemish House Rental Decree came into force. The second paragraph of Article 43 establishes a new interim procedure for the justice of the peace. The explanatory memorandum gives two examples of possible use. As an example of an urgent action, reference can be made to a case where the tenants stove the parquet floor of the rented house in the woodburning stove and are clearly inability, so that a subsequent order for payment of the rent damages is de facto of little use. A quick assessment of the landlord's claim can then avoid increasing rent losses. The case can also be cited where the landlord refuses to replace a defective heater during the winter period. The tenant may then bring an action for interim relief to have the landlord ordered to recover the heater. Here are two examples, one from the landlord's side and one from the tenant's side. Article 48, which deals with the removal, refers explicitly to Article 43, § 2, which reaffirms that a landlord could claim the termination of the lease through this new interim procedure. This can be done despite the fact that the decision to dissolve is a decision on the substance of the case and that the court seized in interim proceedings can only deliver a judgment enforceable in stock, i.e. a provisional measure. With the sixth state reform, the power to issue specific rules on housing rental was transferred to the Regions. Does this transfer of jurisdiction extend to the rules of procedure on rental of property? How often has this procedure been initiated since the entry into force of the Flemish Housing Decree? How often was the procedure initiated by the landlord and how often by the tenant? How often was the procedure initiated with the request for termination of the lease and in how many of these cases was the dissolution effectively pronounced by a peace judge?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u59	Madam President, Mr Crombez, your first question on the transfer of jurisdiction in relation to the issue of specific rules on housing rental and whether it extends to the procedural rules on housing rental was recently referred to the Constitutional Court. More specifically, an action for annulment has been brought against Article 43, § 2 of the Flemish Housing Rental Decree. It is up to the Constitutional Court to answer the question whether or not Article 43 (2) is contrary to the jurisdictional rules. As far as your second, third and fourth questions are concerned, I regret to inform you that I have been informed by the College of Courts and Courts that I do not have these figures at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u60	Minister, I have no reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u61	Minister, the intention to draw up an individual detention plan for each of the detainees was laid down a long time ago in the basic law on the prison system and the legal status of the detainees of 12 January 2005. However, the entry into force of these provisions has been postponed over and over again. However, the creation of such an individualised detention path is crucial in the context of successful reintegration, damage recovery and consistent punishment. The detention plan is intended to be drawn up in consultation and with the assistance of the inmate after an investigation into his/her person and life situation has taken place. The plan lays down a route, possible rehabilitation activities for victims, possible advice on transfers, proposals on work, education, training, guidance programmes, etc. The Royal Decree of 5 April 2019 finally entered into force on 29 April 2019. I have a few questions on this, Minister. How does the detention plan enter into force in practice? Is there any kind of coordination that monitors the roll-out in the different prisons? What possible difficulties are there? Which actors and services are involved in the preparation of the detention plan? How's their cooperation going? By what time do we want to be able to provide an individual detention plan for each prisoner?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u62	Mrs De Wit, the provisions on the individual detention plan have indeed entered into force and are implementing the basic law on the prison system and the legal status of the detainees of 12 January 2005. For each incoming convict, a basic dossier is immediately drawn up and the psychosocial service examines the need and content for the preparation of an individual detention plan. The same is being done for all prisoners who are already incarcerated and who are not yet sufficiently advanced in the practical implementation of their probation. In this way, all convicted prisoners will have a detention plan in the course of next year. The concrete roll-out in the establishments is under way. The detention plan formalises and strengthens an already existing practice whereby the psychosocial service of the prison, based on the identified needs and needs of the sentenced person, develops in consultation a path to be followed during detention with a view to successful reintegration. With the entry into force of the relevant provisions, this practice is now further formalised and clarified in an individual detention plan, similar to a contract, to be concluded between the Director and the inmate. The aim is to prepare appropriately the reintegration tailored to the individual inmate and thus also to avoid committing new facts. The first actors involved are the competent regime director of the prison and the detainee himself. It goes without saying, however, that the psychosocial service of the prison is very closely involved. This service investigates the different domains of life, strengths and weaknesses of the person and looks at his needs and needs on the basis of the risk profile of the prisoner. The contribution of the services of the Communities, responsible for the provision of assistance and services, is crucial in this respect. They are responsible for the range of activities in the institution, for example in the areas of education, training, culture, mental health care and labour supply. The cooperation of the penitentiary services with those of the Communities is primarily carried out locally in the various prisons. No new structures are being set up for this purpose, but further work is being carried out in the existing partnerships. At central level, there is periodic structural consultation between the prison system and the Communities in which the role of the detention plan is followed. There are no problems in cooperation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u63	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I am glad that there are no problems and that there is cooperation. That's the idea. At some point, you went very fast. Do I understand correctly that the roll-out will only take place in the course of next year? Did I misunderstand that? Otherwise we will not be very far away and I will certainly come back to this in a few months' time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u64	You will certainly have to come back to this within a few months, but the roll-out is in full swing. The concrete roll-out in the establishments is under way.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u65	Madam President, Minister, the Act of 5 May 2019 amending the Code of Criminal Investigation and the Judicial Code with regard to the publication of judgments and judgments provides that, from 1 September 2020, all judgments and judgments will be published on the Internet in an electronic database accessible to everyone. This is an important step forward since, so far, it was necessary to address the court registries in order to be aware of the judgments and judgments. Still, it was necessary to be directly involved in the case, either as a party or as a lawyer. For the rest, only 0.47% of decisions rendered since the Second World War are available on search engines, which is largely insufficient in a democratic state, you will agree. The text specifies that judgements will be "anonymized", i.e. that "all data that enable the direct identification of the parties and other persons involved are omitted", according to the arrangements determined by the King. The law therefore largely delegates to you the task of defining the scope of the anonymization of decisions. The Data Protection Authority supports an extremely binding vision of the obligation to anonymise, including the courts and all actors, including magistrates and lawyers. This broad vision is challenged by the Commission for the Modernization of the Judiciary, but also by a significant part of the doctrine. Minister, how will this anonymization be implemented? Who will be responsible for this and when will the court decision be drawn up? Will it concern legal persons who are not normally covered by the definition of personal data in the GDPR but who, according to some, may be affected, not to mention that they can rely on business secrecy? Will it also concern magistrates and other judicial officers, as well as lawyers? The Data Protection Authority, as I said, had given a positive opinion on this issue, contrary to its French equivalent and part of the doctrine. Has the solution of pseudonymization been considered, from the moment that re-identification of persons will always be possible through consultation of the original decision or copies thereof? Finally, will a new opinion be given on this matter by the Data Protection Authority?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u66	Madam Chair, following the approval of the May 5, 2019 Act, a Justice Working Group was established to develop a proposal for an approach and solution. This working group consists of the SPF Justice, represented by both the ICT management department and the general Directorate of Legislation, the Court of Cassation, the IFJ and representatives of the College of Courts and Courts and the College of Public Prosecutions. The working group will make a proposal for an answer to the various questions that arise concerning the implementation of the above-mentioned legislation, including those that you mention. The Justice FPS is therefore in consultation with the various actors with a view to carrying out the necessary steps to carry out this legal task as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u67	Minister, thank you for your very clear answer. A working group has been set up. I'm very happy about that. I hope that the deadlines can be met, but I believe that the actors concerned will do what is necessary, since they will be the first beneficiaries of this system. However, I would like to draw your attention, as well as the attention of the members of the working group, to the need to ensure a balance between privacy and the publication of court decisions. These are two constitutional obligations. It is really important to ensure a proper balance between these two major obligations.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u68	Madam President, Minister, the investigation into the attack in Liège on May 29, 2018, which claimed the lives of two Belgian police officers as well as a student, is almost complete. Since the perpetrator had died and no suspects had been detained, it was now necessary to turn to the assistance and compensation granted to the victims. In such circumstances, the Commission for Financial Assistance to Victims of Intentional Acts of Violence may grant assistance to victims without, however, guaranteeing them full compensation. Despite important legislative advances, they are insufficient. Many families of victims, lawyers and associations are advocating for a new compensation system. The maximum ceilings were increased from €62 000 to €125 000 for the main aid and from €15 000 to €30 000 for emergency aid. A comprehensive system would allow for full compensation to victims or their beneficiaries, including for their moral damage, which is currently insufficiently considered. The Commission's intervention is subsidiary. The claimant must not have other opportunities to obtain sufficient compensation for his or her damage. Furthermore, the aid must be duly substantiated. Mr. Minister, are there any legislative advances other than those related to the increase in aid ceilings that the federal government has made in assisting victims of intentional acts of violence? Could a compensation mechanism replace the current system? If so, could it take the form of subrogatory compensation in which the State would be subrogated to the rights of the victim and/or their successors?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u69	Madam Chair, Madam, during the last Parliament, legislation relating to the Victims Fund has undergone profound changes, at the initiative of the government. The latest changes were published on February 8. The ceilings for financial assistance to victims have been significantly increased. For victims of terrorist attacks, the Commission for financial aid can now grant up to EUR 126 000 in advance, even pending possible intervention by an insurer. This means in practice that in many cases the State will already be subrogated to the rights of the victim. The legislative changes now allow victims of intentional acts of violence to be helped more quickly and effectively by the Commission. Therefore, other amendments are not on the agenda. The Government has also taken other initiatives such as the creation of a national solidarity statute and a bill to improve the compensation granted by insurers. Unfortunately, the latter could not be voted on. I know that proposals are circulating to replace the current system of financial aid with full compensation for the damage suffered. Under this type of mechanism, the State would compensate all the victim's damages. Subsequently, he would attempt to recover the sum from the perpetrators and/or insurers by subrogation. This type of regime is in force in France in particular, which is logically explained by the fact that terrorism is not considered to be a compulsory insurance risk, which is indeed the case with us. It is not for this government in day-to-day affairs to adopt a position on these proposals. I stress that careful consideration should be given to balancing the pros and cons as well as the financial impact, while paying particular attention to whether the situation of the victims would actually be improved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u70	Minister, thank you for your answers. I hear that initiatives have been taken by the government. Of course, day-to-day business is a hindrance to new initiatives. However, I would like to reiterate that the State has a great responsibility in caring for these victims. Victims of terrorist acts were affected because they represented the State. It is therefore very important that the state assume its responsibility, whether the government is in day-to-day business or not, whether the government is a minority or not. Let us not forget that in the context of the Liège bombing, two police officers were affected. I suspect that there is a budgetary argument that is a hindrance to a comprehensive compensation system for victims. It must also be said that the sooner a victim is taken care of, the faster it will be rebuilt and the lower the cost to the State. It is important to keep this data in mind.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u71	Question No 55000462C by Mr Tim Vandenput lapses as he is not present.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u72	Madam President, Minister, the issue of the Al Ihsaan Mosque in Leuven has been at the centre of attention for a few weeks. Flemish Prime Minister Liesbeth Homans wants to lift the recognition of that mosque and protects it with confidential information. However, the city administration of Leuven is opposed to this lifting and states this officially in its opinion. On the basis of detailed advice from the police and integration services, it is clear that there would be no security problem with regard to Salafism. One of the elements in the dossier prepared by Prime Minister Homans in support of the winding-up procedure is an evaluation of recognised religious communities in the Flemish Region. However, the Minister does not want to make its content public. Hence my questions. Minister, are you aware of the evaluations made of local communities of faith? Secondly, who made the evaluation of the Al Ihsaan mosque in Leuven on which Minister Homans bases himself? Thirdly, as a result of which a new evaluation of that mosque was made? Fourthly, what does it say in the evaluation of the Leuven mosque? In your opinion, is that problematic for the sake of continued recognition? Fifth, has the State Security made any reports on that mosque? If so, what can be learned from that?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u73	Madam President, Mr Van Hecke, the joint circular in the context of the recognition procedures for local faith communities of 20 July 2017, which I prepared together with my colleagues from Security and Home Affairs, Finance, Defence and Asylum and Migration, provides for an annual evaluation of all already recognised local faith communities, including the Leuven mosque Al Ihsaan, by the Security of the State. This annual evaluation is transmitted by the FPS Justice to the various regional authorities and is discussed in the Working Party on State Security of the Information and Consultation Commission on Honorary Services, in which the competent Cabinets and Administrations of the Regions participate under the chairmanship of the FPS Justice. Overall, the State Security does not consider the Al Ihsaan Mosque to be extremist in its evaluation. However, the department asked itself questions about the educational activities in the mosque of a auxiliary image that was not paid by the FPS Justice. In a later note, the State Security has confirmed that the man in question has not been active in the mosque in Leuven since February 2019. As you know, any withdrawal of a recognition of a local community of faith is one of the exclusive powers of the regional governments.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u74	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You're referring to information from State Security. I remember that the general evaluation is that the mosque is not judged as extremist, but that there are questions about the aid image. That aid image would no longer be active since February 2019. Is the information contained in the State Security Reports also communicated to the Regions? After all, I understand that the evaluations made on the basis of the letter of conversion will be forwarded to the regions, which are responsible for recognition and withdrawal. For this reason, I wonder whether the information of the State's security is also provided to the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u75	Do you wish to answer that question, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u76	Do you nod?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u77	I'm looking neutral.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u78	You look neutral. So there's no answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u79	You spoke about the content of the state security information. Did you also receive information from the services on the content of the annual evaluation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u80	I believe that I have informed you of this. I read out what was shared, in summary, with the administrations and the offices of the Regions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u81	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u82	Minister, 102: that is the number of femicides reported in France since the beginning of the year. 102 women were killed because they were women, often in atrocious circumstances: beaten, raped, killed, strangled, stabbed... Belgium does not escape the phenomenon. Since 2017, 97 cases have been reported below reality, as Belgium is one of the six European states not providing any official data on femicides, whereas this is an obligation of the Istanbul Convention which Belgium ratified in 2016. Yesterday morning, the Public Prosecutor's Office spoke of a black figure, since in fact 50 per cent of incidents of interfamilial violence are not reported to the police. We must rely on women's associations and media outlets to establish that the rate of femicide is as alarming in Belgium as in France, a neighbouring country that has initiated a "Grenelle des violences conjugales" which brings together ministers, associations, administrations and relatives of victims. In Belgium, many urge us to step up to France, but to target all femicides, since only part of them are committed in the conjugal sphere. Women's associations and lawyers called for the inclusion of femicide in the Criminal Code; they believed that the current situation, which considered the murder of a person because of his/her gender as an aggravating circumstance and not as an offence in its own right, did not allow the crime to be punished for what it was. Initiatives have been taken to reduce the backlog of complaints of spousal violence, which remains far too high: almost 70 per cent. Christian De Valkeneer, president of the College of Public Prosecutions, who was heard yesterday in the Committee of Justice, but who also spoke on this issue recently in a debate on the radio, identifies as problematic the lack of coordination between the justice, the police, the associations and the different levels of power. Minister, are you in favour of the inclusion of femicide in the Criminal Code? Are you planning to draw inspiration from the Spanish example, a country where women's murders have decreased by a third in ten years thanks to a proactive policy? Do you consider this to be part of the effort to identify femicides called for by the Istanbul Convention, which we have ratified? Is there any consultation with the Minister of the Interior regarding the receipt of complaints in police stations? What further steps can the Government take to implement the national action plan to combat gender-based violence 2015-2019, pending this new plan for the next five years?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u83	Minister, the inequalities experienced by women in Belgium are known, documented, quantified and measured. Attacks, on the other hand, are not. Today, all over the world, women are meeting and investing in tackling the obstacles that slow down the processing of urgent and important cases: violence, individualization of social security rights, gender mainstreaming in asylum policies, and guaranteeing access to abortion and contraception. In Brussels, a new demonstration is planned on 24 November against violence against women, with a view to obtaining concrete political responses. You yourself, on the occasion of a question relating to the Julie Van Espen case, said on 17 July: "The fight against sexual violence requires a common and integrated approach by the Communities and the Federal State. It must be a priority of new government agreements and strategic plans." However, it is attested that one of the major obstacles in the fight against violence against women is, inter alia, insufficient legislation on the recognition of the specific nature of femicide – the murder of a woman, a girl, on the basis of her gender – and the absence of an official and public census. So, Minister, do you confirm your previous commitment to the fight against sexual violence and, more broadly, the fight against violence against women? Does it also aim to incorporate recognition into our legal arsenal of the specificity of femicide? Will it lead to the establishment of an effective and reliable data collection system within the police? If so, can you detail what actions have already been taken to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u84	Madam, sir, with regard to criminalization in the Criminal Code, no distinction is made between a man and a woman concerning murder and murder. These offences are already the most serious offences, punishable by the most severe penalties: 30 years of detention and life imprisonment. Such a distinction in law would therefore make little sense. On the other hand, for less serious violence, an aggravating circumstance may be legally retained where the violence committed is motivated by hatred towards the victim on the basis of sex or other protected criteria. This aspect is also included in the new draft Penal Code. With regard to the statistics from the public prosecutor's offices, I can state that the number of cases contained in them can be distinguished on the basis of the sex of the victim and the scope of the domestic violence context, although there is no specific prevention code for femicides. For a long time, combating domestic violence has been an important strategic priority of criminal policy, not least for the police and public prosecutors. I refer, for example, to Circular 4/2006, which was updated in the previous legislature and on the approach to domestic violence, and which pays special attention to it. In addition, all relevant partners, including the Communities, have put forward hundreds of measures in the national action plan to combat all forms of gender-based violence, Action Plan 2015-2019. This plan is coordinated and evaluated by the Institute for Gender Equality. Many initiatives have been taken in recent years, in particular to stop in time the spiral, sometimes fatal, of partner violence or violence within the family. I refer in particular to the creation of Family Justice Centers and the integration of a chain approach in Flanders. In addition, I have urged the College of Attorneys General to apply more frequently in our country the widely used residence ban instrument, particularly in Spain, Austria and the Netherlands. The law of 5 May 2019 has already transposed into law a series of recommendations from the evaluation report of the College of Attorneys General on the application of the residence ban.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u85	Minister, thank you. I am pleased to see that concrete measures are being developed. The ban on residence is part of this. On the other hand, your argument makes me agree when you mention that a distinction between men and women could not be made in the Criminal Code through the inclusion of femicide as such. Statistics speak for themselves: a real scourge affects women in particular. The Criminal Code also has its symbolism in the face of this phenomenon, and it must be able to respond to it in practice as other States have done. We are fortunate to have examples of comparative law, examples of proactive policies in other countries. It is our duty to respond. Even yesterday, the President of the College of Attorneys General expressed his readiness to prepare circulars dealing specifically with femicide. There is therefore a willingness on the part of justice actors to recognize the specificity of femicide. It is also the duty of politics.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u86	Minister, I am pleased to hear that things are being done. The situation can only improve. On the other hand, we refuse to rule out the issue of femicide in the name of an equality that does not exist in practice. Femicides take place in a context of more global violence, linked to patriarchy. This is a specific crime. Killing a woman because she is a woman must be an aggravating circumstance. Violence against women is a collective responsibility. It was therefore urgent to take concrete political measures and to include femicide as a specific crime in the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u87	Minister, on 23 August 2019, the Monitoring Committees of the various prisons were reconstituted. The Central Supervisory Board for the Prison Office is responsible for the appointment of the new members. However, the law does not determine how the appointment should be made. As a condition, however, it is legally provided that the members are appointed on the basis of their expertise or experience in relation to the tasks entrusted to the Supervisory Board. In addition, there must be at least two members who have a degree in law and one doctor. The Central Supervisory Board would have decided to select the new members by drawing lots because of an oversupply of candidates, both existing committee members and new candidates. According to my information, for example, in Beveren prison, only three of the eight former committee members have been re-elected, the other five, including the secretary, are all new people. Of course it is not wrong that there is innovation, but of course there is also a lot of experience lost in that way. Although the law does not say anything about how the appointment should be made correctly, it is stipulated that expertise or experience are prerequisites for being a member of a Supervisory Board. I find it strange, however, that the new members, in such an arbitrary way, by a draw, have been appointed by chance and that experience, motivation and a curriculum vitae in general seem to have been of no importance. I therefore have a few questions for you, Minister. Can you confirm that the selection of the new members of the Supervisory Committees was made on the basis of draw? If so, why was that chosen? Has this been done for each Supervisory Board, or has it only been done in a few places? Do you think that in the future there may be a need for a different method of appointment? Is it possible to obtain an overview per Supervisory Board of the number of members who have been in office since 1 September, on the one hand, and of the number of applications submitted for them, on the other?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u88	Ms De Wit, following the amendment of the law of 25 December 2016 and of 11 July 2018, the Central Supervisory Board for the Prisoners and the Local Supervisory Boards were transferred from the Department of Justice to the Chamber of Representatives as a legitimate institution. The composition of the Supervisory Boards is the sole responsibility of the Central Supervisory Board, whose members were appointed by your Chamber. As Minister of Justice, I have no say whatsoever, let alone any control over these bodies which have become independent of the executive authority and which are directly under the powers of the Chamber. So I cannot comment on your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u89	Thank you, Minister, but I will look further. It was brought under the jurisdiction of the Chamber. Allow me to say that I have nothing against innovation or that there are new people on the supervisory boards, quite the contrary. A new look can be refreshing. However, if experience and expertise are criteria, I find it very special that there is indeed a lottery module. I fear that this will result in a great deal of expertise and motivation being lost. Well, that's not right. I think we have a job to do here. The previous law brought this under the control of this House. Then we'll have to dig further. I tried with you, but I'm going to try elsewhere, because I'd like to know what it's like and why it happened this way.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-18-55-commissie-ic012x.u90	Questions Nos 55000485C, 55000486C, 55000487C, 55000488C and 55000501C by Mrs Özen are converted into written questions.
