ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic045x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, today we welcome the Minister of Justice, with on the agenda the follow-up to the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry on Terrorist Attacks. An Integrated Report and a Brief Report will be drawn up of our sitting. For the record, in the Committee on the Interior this morning, which also looked at the follow-up to the recommendations of the Committee on Terrorist Attacks, several members asked for a joint meeting of the Internal Affairs and Justice Committees. I understand that this was not voted on. The proposal is that the Minister of Justice should make a statement at our meeting today, after which the Commissioners can ask their questions, and that, if the committee agrees, I should like to leave the decision to Members of this House to take note of the answers to it in a joint meeting. The interference between the Committees on Home Affairs and Justice is so great that we would better get the answers in common. I would like to look at the committee and possibly Members who were also present this morning in the Committee on the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic045x.u2	Madam President, thank you for responding so quickly to this morning's call. We did indeed meet this morning. You yourself were a member of the Committee of Inquiry. The recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry cover a number of aspects, including the follow-up. There was a question this morning about how to work. After all, there is a part of justice, a part of security architecture and a part of victim support. I understand that Mrs De Block has not yet been invited to the section on the recognition of the victims. There was therefore, firstly, the question of whether a joint committee meeting could be organised for the follow-up of the recommendations. The second question was to make a division according to the various actors in the Committee of Inquiry. Thirdly, we want thought to be given to how we will proceed. It is logical that we should question the ministers today, but it will be important in future to invite other actors from specific areas to hear how far things stand. In short, we are calling not only for both committees to meet together, but also for a working method to be agreed, so that it is clear to everyone when we agree and when we can invite external actors to a hearing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic045x.u3	For the time being, in accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Home Affairs were ordered to follow up the recommendations separately in the areas for which the respective ministers are responsible. Of course, there are interfaces and we can decide to deal with the answers together next time. Minister of Health Maggie De Block could come to our committee next week to evaluate the measures regarding the victims. I propose that we begin our work with an explanation by the Minister, followed by questions from the members of the committee. The answers may then be discussed in a joint meeting with the Committee on the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic045x.u4	Madam President, Minister, many of us this morning regretted a lack of methodological reflection on our work. It has been understood that the conduct of our meeting is in line with the wishes of the Conference of Presidents. However, everyone is aware that the follow-up to the recommendations of the Terrorist Attacks Commission is a long-term task. It is therefore likely that this work will remain relevant for many months and perhaps, even if I do not wish, in the years to come. This is a work that Parliament does regardless of the state of government, even if we take it into account. I am thinking in particular of the government's ability to, for example, find additional resources. Indeed, this type of exercise is complicated during a period of routine business. It would be desirable if we could have a methodology that would allow us to proceed systematically, to check chapter by chapter the implementation of the recommendations of the Terrorist Attacks Committee. This methodology would allow us to hear from the government, but also from experts, and to take legislative initiatives. In short, it would be useful to have a methodology somewhat similar to the one that existed in the previous legislature at which a follow-up committee had been set up that could invite one or more members of the government on the basis of the topics chosen by the commission. This would avoid a rather brief and sometimes superficial overview of the various issues, as we experienced this morning. Madam President, I will conclude my speech by recalling that this question of methodology has been raised by all the groups.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic045x.u5	Madam President, I believe that we really need to think carefully about the way in which we work. There was the decision this morning to allow the Committee on the Interior and the Committee on Justice to discuss the subject this afternoon. Since it is expected that the two or three relevant ministers will be present for a joint meeting, the organisation of such a meeting will not always be feasible. That is why I think it would be better to analyse certain chapters in more detail, for example in the Committee on Justice and the Committee on the Interior at the same time. This seems more feasible to me than meetings with two or three committees together. Another possibility is the installation of a follow-up committee, where all the work is done in one place. I propose that the organisation be discussed further in the Conference of Presidents. We must be able to carry out our work as efficiently as possible, but it must also be feasible in practice.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic045x.u6	The Conference of Presidents will continue to follow this organisational issue in any case. Colleagues, can you agree that the Minister of Justice is now explaining his part of the powers? Members of the Commission may then ask their questions. A joint meeting of the Committee on Justice and Home Affairs can be organised, but for the future, we will look at how the recommendations of the Committee on Justice and Home Affairs are best followed in a structural manner. If we work that way, I think we're already a step further. We are also looking for a date, as close as possible, at which the Minister can provide answers to the questions that are being asked today. Is everyone okay with that? I now give the floor to the Minister of Justice for his explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic045x.u7	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the report of the Committee of Inquiry into Terrorist Attacks has been an essential beacon for the second half of the previous legislature; it remains so for this current business period and will remain so for, I am sure, the next government. The recommendations were systematically reviewed by the various departments. Their implementation has been a major priority for all competent authorities. Before I answer your questions, allow me to focus on a few areas and measures by following the safety cycle or chain, as I did at the July 9, 2018 hearing. I would point out from the outset that I will not address the issue of the victims of terrorist attacks here. This is a fundamental aspect, of course, but I understand that it will be the subject of a joint meeting of the Justice and Health Committees. With regard to cooperation between the two intelligence services, intensive discussions were held between them to clarify their cooperation and increase their synergies. The first strategic intelligence plan was approved in October 2018. It defines precisely, for example, the relationship between the two intelligence services and the question of who is working on what type of threat and type of discipline in data collection. A follow-up committee composed of the two directorates is also set up with monthly meetings. Seventeen SGRS officers actually work from the State Security premises. I would have liked to recall the recent legal framework within which intelligence services, within a very strict framework, could commit criminal offences and use specific data collection methods to assess the reliability of sources. But these aspects had to be removed during discussions in Parliament of the bill containing various provisions and voted at the end of the legislature. I remain convinced that these rules are indispensable and that the proposed system was balanced. I hope that the discussions can resume, leading to this legal framework. Secondly, efforts have also been made to make recommendations to the judicial police. To this end, I have regular consultations with the Director-General of the judicial police and with the judicial directors. It is now possible to carry out simultaneous searches in all the data from the databases that manage the investigations of all the executives of the federal judicial police. This is done via a tool similar to a Google Search. This tool has now been deployed via a binding directive on a specific profile for the benefit of the members of the cells Intelligence Terro of the five federal judicial police Terro and also of DJSOC/Terro. They can now search all the research files of the 14 GDPs, regardless of whether it is about terrorism, and have access to certain details of these files. As regards cooperation and the flow of information between directors, binding guidelines have been drawn up. The designation of a new Director-General of the judicial police in May, an ad interim designation in view of the period of current cases, was the opportunity to give a new impetus to this function. It was essential for me to strengthen his role within the Executive Board and the coordination of the devolved judicial police forces, the FGPs. The operation and added value of service DJSOC/Terro is the subject of a thorough reflection that fits the key role to be played by the central councils of the federal police. Agreements were concluded by DJSOC according to a system of concentric circles of priority partners, i.e. the five major FGPs Terro, the other FGPs, the DirCos and finally the other partners. Agreements have already been concluded for the first three circles. I mentioned it in July 2018, but I would like to repeat it: after a major catching-up manoeuvre at the end of 2017 and a stabilisation phase in 2018, the processing of the alerts requests in the general police database has been going on for over a year without any delay. The I+ Belgium system is operational today in the majority of judicial districts and its use will be generalised by 2020. The system represents a major improvement for the succession of persons who are in freedom provided that conditions are met. Where conditions, such as the ban on visiting certain places or persons, are imposed in the context of a conditional release or in the context of an alternative measure to issue an arrest warrant, these conditions are introduced by the prosecutor into the I+ Belgium system. From that moment on, they are not only accessible to the police and the justice houses, a push system also actively informs the actors involved in each major event. This system strengthens effective control of conditions, and it contributes to greater security within our society. Thirdly, during the July 2018 hearing, I had already stressed the progress made in the information flux in the case of the separation of a file by the public prosecutor. Since then, progress has been made in computerising the flow of information between Justice and the police in this respect. The databases of all the executives of the judicial police with which the investigations are managed are automatically completed daily with all the decisions taken in the files. There are more and more zones connected to that system which are thus automatically informed of the legal consequences of the investigations they are conducting. Fourthly, a decisive step has been taken with regard to the Joint Information Center (JIC) and the Joint Decision Center (JDC). Their establishment was one of the key recommendations of the commission of inquiry for the services, in particular to deal with the problem of judicialization. The Joint Information Center and the Joint Decision Center have been operational for the Brussels district since the beginning of this year. An evaluation is under way but I can already tell you that the feedback received from the services is very positive. The JIC-JDC will be extended in the coming months to the other districts under the jurisdiction of the Brussels Court of Appeal. The establishment of JIC-JDCs throughout the country will also be gradually considered. In the meantime, the exchange of information and coordination are already ensured in these jurisdictions via the TC forums. I would point out that the first year of operation of the JIC-JDC supports us in the idea that it was better to start first in Brussels. The new system had to make its youth diseases. Many aspects have had to be improved as they progressed. A deployment throughout the territory of multiple JIC-JDC would have led to divergent developments in this crucial period. Fifthly, we have continued the preparatory work on the security bank, one of the most innovative cross-cutting elements of the report of the commission of inquiry. My office and that of the two successive Ministers of the Interior coordinated the work of a committee composed of the Federal Police, the SPF Justice, the intelligence services, the OCAM and the Crisis Centre. The committee met six times to discuss this concept of a security bank and issued a report which was forwarded to Parliament. This report shows that the issue is both crucial and complex. We must not drown the reflection, but it would be absurd to go down into an ICT project that is expensive in terms of energy and budgetary resources, without having thought about the general purpose and the framework within which we operate. The example of the social security bank is very illustrative. A carrefour bank is not limited to interconnections between information systems and even less to a hit/no hit system, even if it can be a step. Perhaps the most important element is the creation of a governance structure capable of making decisions, managing complex projects and regulating information flows. The report allows the next government to take a position on the major options and decide on the budgetary means. In the meantime, I'm going to discuss the case with the College. His involvement is not directly mentioned in the committee's report, but I believe that, given the importance of judicial police information, he will be a key partner. Sixth, radicalism in prison remains a priority for the various actors. It's a difficult problem. Neither we nor other countries have found the miracle solution. But no one, to my knowledge, has tried as much as we have. The approach is being refined in close partnership with the Communities, which, as you know, are competent to assist prisoners. A new action plan on radicalism in prison has just been finalized by DG Prisons. It is a kind of action plan 2.0, after the first plan of March 2015. The great principles of placement policy are maintained, but the aim is to put more emphasis on the so-called satellite prisons. This is the level between the so-called Deradex wings on one side, and the spread over the other prisons on the other side. One of the key concepts is the individualisation of the approach of radicalised detainees. The penitentiary establishments shall cooperate with the Communities in order to promote the individual disengagement pathways accompanied by a reclassification plan of the detainees. Seventh, the law on various provisions in criminal matters, which was adopted at the end of the previous legislature, contains several important rules on the execution of penalties, which were recommended by the Committee of Inquiry. I cannot go over them all here, but they mainly concern the justification of certain decisions by the criminal court, the prohibitions to leave the territory for persons in conditional liberty and the security period. Eighthly, information flows on detainees have been and are being improved. This issue was intensively discussed in your meeting as a result of the attack in Liège in May 2018 and was already part of our priorities. One of the evolutions concerns the joint evaluation of radicalised detainees. The Directorate-General for Penitentiary Institutions became a partner of the OCAD by Royal Decree in 2018. Another royal decision to extend the Common Database is currently being finalised. The aim is to ensure that all prisoners showing significant signs of radicalisation are the subject of a sharing of information through this Common Database and that the evaluation of these persons is coordinated. Currently, only those inmates meeting the criteria of a Foreign Fighter, a Homegrown Terrorist or a hate preacher are included in the Common Database. This means that the Cell Extremism of DG Penitentiary Institutions must work with its own list of persons who are being followed up in prison because of a link with radicalism. This expansion of the Common Database will allow further rationalisation of an infflux, which has already been well developed. I have already spoken about the I+ Belgium system that allows us to share information about all persons in freedom under conditions, regardless of whether there is a link with radicalism or terrorism. The services are actively working on the follow-up of individuals associated with radicalism, who leave prison after serving their sentence. Leaving the prison is not only prepared for the part of the parole of the person. The security services are also preparing this moment. The penitentiary institutions draw up a report on each inmate associated with radicalism and approaching the end of his sentence. They deliver that to the security of the state. After leaving prison, the succession is ensured in a local task force, as well as an information sharing via the Common Database. Fourthly, and finally, I should like to conclude with the latest information on the Grand Mosque in Brussels. As you know, the historical concession was terminated in March 2018. The current temporary posting to the Muslim executive is a mere occupation for prayer, pending the conclusion of a final concession with an umbrella non-profit organisation, Grote Mosque. It is my hope that this dome-vzw will be established this year to take over the management of the Great Mosque, assisted by experts from the Government of the Buildings and the FPS Justice, so that I will then be able to submit the final concession with this non-profit association to the Council of Ministers. As regards the local community of the mosque, a provisional management committee was established that would be involved in an application for recognition, which would be submitted to the Brussels-Capital Region at the beginning of 2020. Finally, the Academy for the Training and Research of Islamic Studies, which is to set up a training for ministers of the Islamic worship service within the Great Mosque, has at least formally seen the light of day, as its statutes were published on 2 August 2019 and a partnership with Belgian universities is being prepared. So far, Madam President, a number of preliminary remarks I would like to make. I hope they have shown that we have worked until the last sigh of the previous legislature to make progress in the implementation of the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry and that our efforts will continue today during the period of current affairs. It goes without saying that I remain at your disposal to answer your questions, what will happen at the next sitting, if I have understood correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic045x.u8	Thank you, Minister. As agreed, all questions can now be asked and will then be answered at the next meeting, jointly with the Committee on Home Affairs, Security, Migration and Administration. Mrs Kitir, Mr Van Hecke, Mr Dallemagne and Mr Aouasti asked to speak. Mrs Kitir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic045x.u9	Thank you, Minister, for the explanation. Your lock made it seem as if it was a last sigh and that there was almost a new government ready, but when I read the press releases today, a new government seems to be still far away. I hope, therefore, that you will continue to sigh to the last, whenever that may be, your shoulders underneath. The government in current cases has clearly been given the responsibility and the mandate to follow up on the implementation of the recommendations. I'm only giving that as a message for the next few weeks and months. This morning, I noticed that, after the terrible attacks of 22 March 2016, we worked hard with a majority and opposition for one and a half years in a committee of inquiry, the recommendations of which were adopted unanimously, over majority and opposition. After this work, we opted for a follow-up committee to highlight the seriousness of the matter and to keep the issue on the agenda. Once the measures have been adopted, the real work begins, because all the recommendations have to be implemented. We considered a follow-up committee to be important and I regret that it was not elected during this parliamentary term. We're losing time by looking for the right method across all committees. The Conference of Presidents will explain what is the best way of working. I am pleased that you have taken the time today to give us an update on the area of justice. This morning, another minister underlined that there is no zero risk, that we must remain vigilant at all times and commit ourselves to the full one hundred percent in order to prevent what can be avoided. In the Committee of Inquiry we got a very good picture of the system errors and the possible improvements to our security architecture and justice in order to ensure optimal safety for each of us. Some work has already been done, you have just listed, but there are still a few points that need to be clarified and on which I would like to have some clarification. A first point concerns the creation of the Joint Intelligence Center and the Joint Decision Center. In your explanatory statement, you indicated that they were set up in Brussels, that there is now an evaluation in progress and that it is reasonably positive. In the meantime, we're at least two years after date. I did not hear you say when the Joint Decision Center and the Joint Intelligence Center will be extended to the four other FGPs. A more important question is whether there are plans to create one national Joint Intelligence Center and a corresponding Decision Center? In fact, we in the Committee of Inquiry considered that a national scale is better, especially when it comes to terrorist cases. They can be better steered and structured at national level. When is the creation planned for the four other FGPs? What is the planning for the National Joint Intelligence Center and the Joint Decision Center? Secondly, I have already discussed it with your colleague this morning, and you yourself referred to the crossroads database. I read the report on the consultation committee, which you sent us, and expressed all my annoyance this morning: two years after you and your colleague De Crem wrote a vision paper following the unanimously adopted recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry the year before, it is announced that the opinion to the P Committee, the I Committee and the Supervisory Body on police information will be asked again to submit it to the College of Attorneys General. We are therefore not yet a step further in this respect. The conclusion of expert Bruggeman in this area is correct. I quote him: 'The crossroads database remains under discussion and the relevant working group drowns the project in its report in complicated structures, where the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry were intended as a limited hit/no hit system'. I don't understand. I do not understand why we are still two years from now. I would like more information on that. Is it intended to drown or drown the project in the working group? Why do you allow that, Minister? Why don't you intervene? All of our research has shown that the exchange of information is very important. That's what the crossroads database is for. Why isn't he here today? Could you give us a little more explanation on that? We are still on the verge of having to seek advice from different bodies. Thirdly, the Committee of Inquiry has rightly paid a great deal of attention to the follow-up of those convicted of terrorism and/or radicalism after their imprisonment. In the report of expert Bruggeman, 30 terrorist convicts were released in 2018 after the end of their sentence and 85 under conditions. Apparently, the State Security does not draw up a notice of release under conditions and only an e-mail is sent to the OCAD and DJSOC/Terro. The question is still whether that is sufficient, especially since I read in the same report that more attention should be paid to following radicalised people who have served their sentence in full. Mayors complain that they will not be informed when ex-Syria fighters are released and where they will stay. Apparently, there is still a deep gap between the prison system and the local security services and the administrative services. Mr Minister, in the Committee of Inquiry, which dates back a few years, the mayors have just said the same thing. I can only regret that there is still no structural improvement in this area. When people see how many people are released every year, I can only underline how urgent that is. Why are the mayors or local security services not informed from the moment ex-Syria fighters have served their sentence in full? According to the current legislation, a provision of the criminal enforcement court is only possible for perpetrators of terrorist offences who have led to death. Perpetrators of terrorist offences who have not led to death, or offenders who have participated in an activity of a terrorist group or who have provided means for the purpose of committing a terrorist offence, may not be made available to criminal enforcement courts. That is why the Committee of Inquiry had recommended that the law be extended to that effect. Why hasn't that happened yet? Worse still, in your reform of the Criminal Code, you intend to abolish the posting altogether. Is that right? If that's what you're planning, why are you planning to do that? This is contrary to the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry. As far as the preservation of the records is concerned, the General Inspectorate has repeatedly warned that, in both judicial investigations and police practices, the detention of convictions is becoming more and more problematic. In several files, seized goods were not kept in a manner consistent with their interest as documents of conviction. They are kept in personal closets or in individual suitcases, because infrastructure problems require the police to ask for documents to be kept for a longer period of time. The legality of the taking of evidence is compromised and it also exposes the police people concerned to allegations of integrity violations. Minister, what procedures apply in this way of detention, so that the legitimacy of the taking of evidence is guaranteed? What measures have you taken to remedy this problem? Are there any other cases where beliefs are kept in that way? On 20 April 2017, the PACOS project was launched to allow better management of the supporting documents. It includes the implementation of a unique barcode for each piece, a digital inventory and path monitoring. The roll-out of the PACOS module has been stationary for a long time, even if it is intended to roll out the project in 2019. The year 2019 is almost over. Where are we on the roll-out of PACOS and its regulations? The next point is the control in prisons of prohibited items. At the end of 2016, the Director-General of the Penitentiary Establishments applied new procedures to tighten control over the possession of prohibited items in the cells. The sweeps still bring out a disturbing number of cell phones and even weapons. Mr Minister, how many prohibited items were found at sweeps and what items are they about? How does it react to violations? What measures are being taken to close the influx of prohibited goods into prisons? How often do these checks take place? Do the prisons have sufficient staff and equipment to achieve maximum results with these controls? We have also discussed for a very long time the visit of the prisoner. One of the perpetrators apparently received a lot of visitors from another terrorist, which was unknown to the prison. In the Committee of Inquiry, we therefore suggested that the prison director be given a security clearance, so that visitors can also be screened for a piece. Minister, does the warden already have that security clearance? How's that going? Couldn't people be intercepted like that? Last but not least, you will explain that the concession for the Great Mosque was terminated in March 2018. You hope that a new concession can be granted by the end of this year. Minister, can you clarify which partners will participate in this? In what way will you ensure that funding from abroad is no longer possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic045x.u10	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the state of play. I will be relatively brief because many questions have already been asked by my colleague. We have also all taken note of the evaluation report made by our expert, Mr Bruggeman, this summer. It gave an overview of the main recommendations and the state of implementation. Minister, I would have expected you to respond spontaneously to the issues within your competence. After all, some points may already be out of date, and some steps have perhaps already been taken in the meantime. You have given an update on a number of important topics, but not yet on a number of others. I will therefore put a number of supplementary questions. As regards the victims, you have said that they are the responsibility of your fellow minister. Nevertheless, a number of aspects are also within your competence. As an example, I would like to mention the creation of a single point of contact. We can read that in the meantime a protocol has been concluded with the federal court. In this context, there were questions about funding. The question was whether there were sufficient means to bring this protocol into force. Are there sufficient resources now, so that the protocol can also be implemented within the federal court? There was also a recommendation on victims to be able to recognise representative victim associations. That recognition must be made by the Minister of Justice. According to the information we received this summer, the associations concerned have not yet been recognised. How's the recognition coming? Do you intend to grant recognition to representative victims' associations in the near future? With regard to the specific aspect of justice and security, I will try not to repeat Mrs Kitir's speech. Here's what I'm gonna write down. Where is the update of Plan R that was also a formulated recommendation? With regard to the crossroads bank, I agree with the comments and with the question of why a much heavier and more complex system was chosen, although the recommendation of the Committee of Inquiry was less complex, namely working with a hit/no hit system. Where is the announcement that there would be a uniform definition of the third service? It's about the security of the state. That was promised by you before. Where are we on drawing up a National Strategic Intelligence Plan between State Security and ADIV? What is the state of play? What progress has been made in eliminating the differences in the statutes of the internal and external security services of the State? This is also within your jurisdiction. As far as the Joint Decision Centers are concerned, I am pleased to hear that the first results of the operation in Brussels are positive. That is why we recommended them, because we were convinced that the results would be positive and that cooperation would be useful. The question is therefore: what is waiting for these centres to be rolled out in the short term in the other five PHPs? Finally, we have established that it was not always easy for Justice to cooperate with Google and Facebook, and from them to get data if needed. What's the evolution there? Have any progress been made on this cooperation and on obtaining information in criminal investigations?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic045x.u11	Minister, thank you for your introductory statement. My colleagues and I have all read Mr Bruggeman's report. Many questions will therefore look like each other, as long as they derive from this report. I will try to be brief and concise and not to repeat the questions already asked. Several elements come into play. You've already mentioned them in part, minister. The first concerns the famous security carrefour bank. I see that you have taken the decision to indicate that the hit/non hit system was not your preferred system, and that a much more complex system should be put in place, while the conclusions of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry were limited to that system. Professor Bruggeman said it would take time. Since we need to move towards a more complex system, do we have an assessment of budgetary costs? As you say, it may cost money. When can we benefit from such a system? What is your more precise vision? What more precise mechanisms would you like to put in place beyond this duality hit/non hit? On the other hand, the following is an important question: Is this system likely to get into tension with the application of the principle of third-party service? Last July, you announced a uniform definition of the concept of third-party service. What's the status of this case? I would also like to address the issue of the Joint Information Centers and Joint Decision Centers, which you have developed on Brussels territory. You hope to be able to develop these centres throughout the national territory. I assume that this will be done on a provincial basis, if I understand your logic, or perhaps on the basis of the five courts of appeal. I'd like you to tell me. Why? We are told that local sensitivities differ with respect to these Joint Information and Joint Decision Centers. I want to talk about the composition of these bodies. Is the local police part of it or not? Should we integrate the King's prosecutors? I'd like you to take stock of this case. Depending on the jurisdiction of appeal courts or other territorial jurisdictions – it is known that local police may have an interest in other territorial jurisdictions – when will these projects be completed throughout the country? Could we receive a semblance of planning at this level? The staffing and budgetary resources allocated to all of this are an important point. In particular, a great deal of attention has been paid to the entire report of the commission of inquiry, namely the deficit at the level of the intelligence services. It is known that the interdepartmental reserve provided some oxygen to the various services. But this reserve ends in 2020 and, at this time, we all know what that means. How do you see support for intelligence services in this difficult political context? Could you provide an update on personnel resources within the State Security Service? Which ones will be maintained beyond this 2020 deadline? Would it be possible to have a note addressed to all the members of the commission or the committees gathered on the allocation of the resources released under this interdepartmental reserve, so that we know what is sustainable or not in these budgets? There is the question of the preservation of exhibits which has already been asked and which is very acute, and which is all the more important in Brussels. It is known that the Palais de Justice in Brussels no longer has the capacity to accommodate exhibits at its premises. It's not new. In the end, it is the police areas that provide justice to each of them. There are great risks on these issues of preservation of exhibits. Police officers are mentioned in their personal reserves, etc. Questions arise that are related to lack of resources in the courts of appeal. We finally see this theory of runoff where we discharge to the local police areas. What structural response do you intend to provide? As far as victim assistance is concerned, you said you did not want to address it. However, I would like to raise an issue with you, that of the compensation fund. As part of this recommendation, could you tell me if this project has been abandoned? What is the status of the creation of this fund? I'm not going back to the state of the prisons we all know. You prefer the concept of intermediate prison with individualized follow-up according to radicalized prisoners (Deradex wings, etc.).). Following the shooting in Liège in May 2018, some of the recommendations of the commission of inquiry had been highlighted, including the designation of radical referents in all prisons or the granting of security clearances to all prison directors. Have these recommendations been implemented? As far as the Great Mosque is concerned, a notion is always foreign to me. I wonder about the cooperation with the Brussels authorities in this matter? Beyond the funding of the local cultural communities which fall within the competence of the Regions, there is, I think, a structural collaboration to be set up between the Federal State and the Brussels-Capital Region on this site to ensure that the funding is public and that the whole project will continue unadulterated with the support of the local cultural community and not a abandonment of this community which, moreover, faces internal difficulties. I think this is an issue for the federal authority to work hand in hand with the Brussels regional authorities. Finally, a "lighter" question on the question of the organisation of the trial on 22 March. Where are we? Has a date been set? We were told that the trial could take place in the former NATO headquarters. I would like answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic045x.u12	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your clarifications, which are essential to the conclusions that have been put forward by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry. Whether or not there is a current period of business, the follow-up to the recommendations of the commission of inquiry is perfectly within the framework of routine cases, namely continuing cases, since decisions have been taken in the wake of the findings of the commission of inquiry and the government therefore has an obligation to ensure that they are followed up correctly and to give itself the means to its ambitions. My colleagues have rightly pointed out the need to provide human, material and financial resources to ensure that these recommendations can be properly implemented. I would also like to comment on the question of methodology. I am also very disappointed at the decision not to set up a monitoring committee as such, as had been the case during the previous parliamentary term. It will not be so simple to define which ministers will have to be heard in the light of the themes to be addressed in this framework. The departments of external relations, health, social affairs, the interior and defence are competent. I think we're going to a big micmac. This is not going to allow us to move quickly on topics that require it, even if we need to think about the long term and in a restful way. I find the method of work unsatisfactory. I regret that you have chosen not to raise the issue of victims, because you assume that a joint Justice and Health Committee would be held in this area. However, no clear and definitive decision has yet been taken on this issue. That is why I am surprised not to hear you address this fundamental issue, as this choice will reinforce the sense of abandonment that the victims experienced at the time. In addition, questions arise as to their follow-up. Thus, article 17 of the Judicial Code, which was amended at the end of 2018, does not allow associations of victims to receive the guarantee that they may become a civil party. In principle, however, any group that aims to defend and protect fundamental rights – for example, Unia – can do so; but this was not the case with the victims' associations during the recent trial of the attack at the Jewish Museum in Belgium, because the Assize Court considered that their objective was to defend a set of individual interests. At the European level, however, a reflection is being carried out in order to be able to recognise them as civil parties, as long as they are working towards the search for the truth. So I would have liked to hear from you about that. Another emergency concerns compensation for victims. As you know, the National Solidarity Act does not provide for any time limit for the recognition of victim status. However, there is a period of three years from the recognition of a terrorist act so that someone can apply to the Commission for financial assistance to the victims. This deadline is soon to come to an end, since the attacks in Brussels were recognised by royal decree on 15 March 2017. Therefore, the victims only have five months to take the necessary steps and move to the Commission, although they have never been able to benefit from information as such on this matter – at least when they have not had the chance to be supported by associations. I would like to take this opportunity to ask you whether you think this three-year period is sufficient or whether you think it would be necessary to extend it, as was done in France. To go back to the aspects that you mentioned, do you not think it would be useful if we could look at the evaluation of the measures that have been taken by the government outside the conclusions of the committee of inquiry? Should we not check whether these measures go beyond the aspects highlighted by the latter or whether they are not superfluous? I am thinking in particular of the measure aimed at deprivation of nationality. At the end of 2017, Mr.Maingain sent you a written question to obtain information on the results of this measure and to determine whether deprivations of nationality for acts of terrorism had been imposed. At the time, you replied that no deprivation of nationality had been imposed. I therefore ask myself the question of the usefulness of this measure. Do you have any new elements in this area? With regard to the security architecture, the Committee of Inquiry had stressed the lack of cooperation between the various departments. In fact, the services were working properly in isolation, but when it came to working together and sharing information correctly, there was a problem. I hear some action has been taken. I am thinking in particular of the intelligence fusion cell that was set up in 2016 to allow for greater collaboration between the two intelligence services and the OCAM and a daily collaboration with the investigators of the DR3 of the Federal Police. Since three years have passed since this cell was set up, I believe it would be interesting to assess the results achieved by the cell. Have the cooperation and exchange of information between intelligence services and DR3 improved? You explained that the appointment of a new Commissioner General had been an opportunity to give new impetus to this collaboration. Can you explain to us what is actually happening? Is collaboration really better? As far as consultation with the College of Attorneys General is concerned, I believe that this is a good step. We therefore encourage you on this point. I cannot finish my speech without going back to the problem of prisons. I'm used to asking you about this. One will never claim to say the opposite: there is no miracle solution to limit radicalism in prison. However, I think it would be a good idea to consult with the actors on the ground, to hear them. The monitoring commissions have asked you several times about the lack of evaluation of the various measures applied, including the setting up of the Deradex cells. In 2017, we were promised the completion of this evaluation. We're late 2019 and we're still waiting. I'd like to know when these cells will be evaluated. It is important to be able to do so, especially in view of the need to provide ourselves with the means to achieve our ambitions. In addition to this assessment, if you intend to work on intermediate prisons and not just on Deradex cells, you must ensure that these prisons are properly supervised. This goes, as colleagues have pointed out, through the establishment of radicalist referents, which have been promised several times, which have been repeatedly called for by the Attentats Commission, as well as by a framework for the realization of moral, religious and philosophical advisers. Finally, you insist on the individualization of the inmate's approach. This is within the framework of the individual detention plan, which is underlined by the 2005 Law of Principles, still partially implemented, even though legislative reforms have been implemented. I want to say hello to him. However, it is necessary to be able to implement measures to ensure that all inmates benefit from this individualized approach and not just those incarcerated who already have a radicalized profile. It is known that if the means are not properly put in place, the prison is a ground for radicalism. It is therefore necessary to prevent persons who are not incarcerated for acts of radicalism from radicalizing in prison because they have not been able to benefit from a sufficiently individualized detention plan. I would have liked to hear from you on this subject, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic045x.u13	Madam President, I would like to thank the Minister and the colleagues who have gone through Professor Bruggeman's report in many ways and have passed on their questions to the Minister. I agree with most of the questions. I shall therefore merely add to the questions which I do not fully agree with, particularly with regard to the victims. On a regulation for the victims with a great deal of regulation, even in the previous legislature, we have responded to the grievances of the recommendations. Everything happened? No, things have yet to happen. I think there is certainly a need for coordination. I believe that there is also a need for many KBs, for which the Minister of Health is responsible. That is also one of the reasons why we agreed that a committee meeting should be held together, the Minister for Health. Following a memorial ceremony at the monument in the European quarter at the end of August, we met some victims together with other colleagues. We talked to those people. We were told that the diversity of expertise caused a delay in the handling of their claims files. I therefore believe that a discussion with the Minister of Health is appropriate, not to put matters under the carpet, but to respond to greed. Another point is very important to me because I felt emotionally involved in the discussions in the Committee of Inquiry. At the various committees of inquiry in this House in the last two decades on judicial files, police files and security files that have affected society, we have very often encountered problems in the flow of information through the many cabinets within which each official, police officer or magistrate operates. There is sometimes less human will, and I am certainly not saying human unwillingness, but these dispensations are also inhibiting factors in the flow of information. We then wrote one page in the report of the Committee of Inquiry. I have followed this word for word, which I cannot say from every page and from every point and comma in that research report. We then referred, as far as I am concerned, not without reason, to the Crossroads Bank of Social Security and to e-Health. We have also referred a little less to iPolice, but first of all to the other two. We have referred to the good experience with it. If we compare them with other European countries, the Crossroads Bank of Social Security makes us award many things. So many things have already been discovered that were not traceable in the past. Of course, that system goes far beyond hit/no hit. As much as I respect Professor Bruggeman's person, his intelligence and his commitment to our committee and his report, I do not fully agree with him for that part. I have heard that some Members have referred to his speech, but, with all due respect, I do not agree with him on this point. I'll contact him about that, too. The ambitions of the Crossroads Bank Security were and are higher than those of the hit/no hit, just as those of the Crossroads Bank of Social Security are higher than those of the hit/no hit. It is quite clear, ladies and gentlemen, it is also on that page that it is primarily a governance structure. We're not going to duplicate the information the police have in a Crossroads Bank Security again. That is not the intention, of course. We are not going to centralise everything in one place, but we are going to integrate. Who are we gonna do that to? With all actors in security and justice, from bottom to bottom, bottom-up. That is also why at the Crossroads Bank of Social Security all actors are on the board of directors. They are the engine of the Crossroads Bank of Social Security, without exception, without excluding anyone, without giving anyone a lesser role than the others. That took time at the Crossroads Bank of Social Security, but it was also efficient. Colleagues, I thought our ambition in this respect was greater. In the meantime, can steps be taken forward? Of course, we cannot stand still with the computerization of police and justice and other security actors. Of course, we are not going to stop the whole iPolice process, but if decisions are made for any security department, then we are going to be told that decisions are compatible with the ambitions of our report. That is how I read the report, or at least I interpreted it, and that is what I meant. At that time we not only had formal discussions in the committee, there were also informal contacts, without any ulterior motive, with Professor Bruggeman in particular. That's how I talked to him about it. I explained to him the whole system of operation of the Crossroads Bank of Social Security. I did that because I believe that this can only succeed if we set it up exactly like this, with the cooperation of everyone, from the bottom up. Otherwise, this will only be superficially beneficial and leave us with opportunities. Mr Minister, I apologise for this dissonant sound from Parliament, although of course you are used to it. Despite the fact that we approved this unanimously, I feel that this interpretation is not entirely the same. I do not have my own agenda in this area, I just want to make progress with the system. I would also like to see that misunderstanding cleared up in the future and I will contact Professor Bruggeman on this matter. As far as I am concerned, this can happen together with the other colleagues who are interested in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic045x.u14	Madam Chair, Minister, the discussion we have just had is exemplary when I hear colleagues about the carrefour bank. This shows that the working methodology is very important and that it may be necessary to hear the experts working on this essential issue, because we are not technicians. It is important to move from the notion of "need to know" to "need to share", to ensure that information is not overlooked, to ensure that people in need of information have access to it while avoiding access to it by people who do not need access to it. These are principles on which we have worked a great deal. What is the best implementation of these principles? I do not have a final opinion on this, but it would be interesting, given the central importance of the exchange, sharing and processing of information, for us to have a committee specifically dedicated to this, in order to be able to hear the people working on these aspects. In terms of methodology, it will be necessary to be able to work on a question-by-question basis. At that time, we will see if we need a member of the government to attend these meetings. My second point concerns the victims. Mr Minister, you refer us to a commission, but we do not have any information on the existence of such a commission. We continue to see these victims regularly, during commemorations or at other times. They continue to be very disappointed with their fate, even though the fact that much has been done must not be overlooked. I do not underestimate the work you have done in this area, but it is true that the question of the recognition of associations has not yet been resolved. These associations are financially strangled, some are virtually unable to continue their activities. They are essential, they work with victims and they work on international cooperation. It is very important to be able to recognise these associations. Issues such as single window or single expertise are not yet fully resolved. There is also the question of the legislative hustle and bustle. Our expert, Professor Bruggeman, stresses that it is necessary to be an excellent lawyer in order to be included in the legislation adopted. According to our expert, some of these texts contradict each other in some places. There is certainly a very important task ahead of us, and it is to be able to satisfy all the principles that we have laid down regarding the treatment of victims. I'm not going to go back to all the questions about our intelligence services, about the carrefour bank. They were discussed at length. Perhaps I would like to ask a few quick questions about the problem of radicalism. I think that is one of the central issues for the future. How are we going to ensure that the radical ideas that can lead to violence are less popular, less attractive, less fascination for some of our fellow citizens? First, I would like to have your feeling on this issue in general. Where are we today? This is an important work to be done. We've worked a lot on security architecture, we've worked for the victims, on relief. On the issue of radicalism, I am not saying that we have done nothing, but it is a much more complex issue. What is your feeling today? A report was recently broadcast on Dutch television, but also on Arte, about the various radical currents that continue to try to penetrate and influence our populations. What strategy do we have to deal with this? What is the status of this persistent desire of some preachers to spread radical ideas, especially with those whom you yourself call preachers of hatred? In this regard, I was very surprised to hear that there would be 87 hate preachers in the FTF bank. That's a lot! What is the strategy with respect to these 87 hate preachers? How do we define them, by the way? What is the strategy eventually developed to try to stem this ideology, because it is an extremist ideology, and to ensure that our societies are less exposed to these preachers? I come to the question of radicalization in prison. Several of my colleagues have asked questions about this. It is true that you seem to give less importance to Deradex cells and more to satellite prisons. You told us that a new Action Plan 2.0 is being finalized. I join my colleague Rohonyi's question. We asked for an evaluation of the system a long time ago. We were told that it was too soon, that we had to wait. It is very important that we finally have this evaluation. I guess if you put in place a new plan, you're not satisfied with the current situation. We would have liked to know the specific elements that prompted you to produce a new strategy and plan in the evaluation. We would also like to know a little more about this new action plan 2.0. What about the released detainees? Some are released on parole. What is the cooperation between the TAP and the various police and security services today? Can you evaluate this link that has been so missed for us in the past? What about the follow-up of prisoners who are in pain? This issue is more difficult and sensitive. That's for the intelligence services. I also wanted to ask you briefly about the Great Mosque. Today, we understand that it was managed provisionally by the Belgian Muslim Executive. I would point out that the Belgian Muslim Executive had been pointed out by our intelligence services as a place where outside countries had great influence, Turkey and Morocco not to name them. These two countries were very close to the Executive, to say the least. I recall that our committee of inquiry had recommended that the Great Mosque be managed by Muslims in Belgium. We are therefore not following the recommendations of our committee of inquiry at all. Indeed, we are dealing with a management by the Belgian Muslim Executive, which is also told that its ties with Turkey and Morocco are extremely close. I wanted to stress this contradiction with that recommendation. What is the situation with regard to the implementation of fully autonomous management, which would follow all the recommendations of our committee of inquiry? As such, a new legal provision requires NSOs to publish a list of their donations. Has the Royal Decree on this matter been published? In addition, I have been interested in publishing the accounts of the ASBLs, particularly with regard to the management of cults. That is how I realized that many of them continued not to make them public. So, what follow-up do you give to the question of the financing of certain places of worship? I am thinking in particular of donations from abroad. Finally, Minister of Justice, one reason that is often used not to repatriate our nationals from Syria is that it would reinforce the terrorist threat in our country. I would have liked to hear from you about this, as contradictory statements are made. Indeed, some believe that their repatriation would allow justice to be done and that a better knowledge of their past, their channels and their financing would guarantee greater security, while others claim the opposite. How do you feel about this question?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic045x.u15	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you for your presentation. We are very pleased to be able to participate in the follow-up to the recommendations of the parliamentary committee of inquiry. Much has already been said today, both this morning and certainly this afternoon. So we will try not to repeat ourselves. I will try to speak briefly and compactly. Mr Minister, I would like to put two points to you: firstly, the role of the investigators and secondly, the powers of the intelligence services. Firstly, the role of the investigators. The POC talks about the great importance of democratic control in the fight against terror. Your policy, however, was to strengthen the public prosecutor's office. As we know, it belongs to the executive and not to the judiciary. After the attacks, we also heard testimonies from other investigators about the lack of resources. For example, research judge Karel Van Cauwenberghe stated that it was more logical to invest in investigators who specialise in the fight against terrorism and who can follow concrete cases. It seems to us that it is safer and more efficient to continue to invest in neutral investigators and not in magistrates who are sometimes politically influenced. The POC stressed the importance of the rule of law. Nevertheless, the Michel administration again saved 10% on Justice. Don't you think the investigators have an important role to play? Isn't there a danger in extending the force of the parquet? I have a second point and a question about the intelligence services. The Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry recommends that the powers of the intelligence services be extended. However, as we know, the perpetrators of the attacks in Brussels were not unknown. We even knew from El Bakraoui that he was on his way to Brussels. It seems clear, therefore, that the problem lies not in finding the information, but in processing and exchanging the data. Don't you think the pendulum has gone too fast for massive data capture? We have the feeling that there is a bid going on in this area, without considering its efficiency in the fight against terror. Can you prove that the measures recommended by the POC are effective and necessary?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic045x.u16	Mrs Kitir, you are asking for the floor again?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic045x.u17	Minister, I forgot to ask one question that I think is important. I would also like to put it to you because it was not put forward by other colleagues. It's about deradicalisation in prisons. According to state security figures, there are currently no less than 450 prisoners with a risk profile. You talked about the two Deradex departments set up in Hasselt and Ittre. Especially in view of what is happening today around the Belgian Syrian fighters, it is important that we work proactively, especially around the risk profiles and about the psychosocial follow-up of people with psychological problems. My colleagues in the Flemish Parliament have often questioned the Minister at the time. The answer was the same, namely that a zero risk does not exist, but that one has to work proactively. It was also stated in the reply that the diagnosis of psychosocial succession is federal and that its effect is at Flemish level. Has additional capacity been provided for this in the meantime? Is there provision for all prisoners or only for a limited number of detainees? After all, half the prisoners need psychic help and the waiting lists to get that psychic help are often longer than the prison sentences they have to serve. So I think it is important to know what steps have been taken in this regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic045x.u18	I would like to say something as a member, if you will allow me to sit in this chair, because I was also part of the committee of inquiry into the attacks. I am not going to mention any more new themes, because all the major themes have already been mentioned. One of the great recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry was indeed about the flow of information, which has proved to be a pain. We had recommended building a Crossroads Bank Security. Many speakers have already asked for this, but perhaps not so specific, because in the report we read that the Public Prosecutor's Office has chosen not to participate in the creation of the Crossroads Bank Security. Of course, we find it a little strange that it has made that choice because the public prosecutor is also dealing with information from the judicial police in particular and that it will also have to exchange it. So I would have liked to have checked your opinion on this, Minister. Is it not necessary for them to help determine what information is being exchanged and under what conditions it is being shared? Secondly, we have made important recommendations on the victims, and we have also taken important steps in the previous legislature with regard to the victims. However, a number of KBs remain unfinished and there is still coordination work to be done. We are still in current cases, but we are dealing here with certain policies: implementing decisions must not be delayed because we are now in current cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-11-05-55-commissie-ic045x.u19	Any questions? If not, we can close the sitting. We are looking for a joint meeting with the Committee on Home Affairs as soon as possible to get the answers to the common questions.
