ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u1	Colleagues, I suggest that we start our committee meeting. I would remind you that today at 16.30 you will also be discussing a legislative proposal, in which the Minister responsible will be present. We will continue the hearings this afternoon in the context of the issue of the issue of issuing humanitarian visas. The following speakers present today: Mr Konstantin Al Chammas, spokesperson of the Syrian community in Aalst, Mr Karim Van Overmeire, ships of the city of Aalst and Flemish MEP, Ms Sally Cnudde and Mr Sjaak Van Leijenhorst, Jelle Rijkeboer and Everhard van Dalen respectively, president, director and employees of the non-profit association Gave Veste. Mr Van Overmeire has specifically asked me to speak as the first speaker, together with Mr Al Chammas. First, Mr Van Overmeire will explain himself, and then questions can be put to him, to which he will reply, so that he can leave our sitting after the answers have been received. The other speakers will then speak. Meanwhile, Mr Fehmi Tony Vergili, President of the European Syriac Union, has also arrived. I give the floor to Mr Van Overmeire.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my parliamentary career began 28 years ago in the Chamber. All the way to the end, you know I'm no longer a candidate in May, I'll come back here. So the circle is round in a certain way. I must admit, Mr President, that it is a rather separate experience to come to a hearing, not as a Member of Parliament, but as a guest speaker. I've been through a lot of hearings over the last 28 years. I know that these hearings are an important source of information for Members of Parliament. When I was invited here, I naturally responded to that invitation to explain here the role that Mr Al Chammas has played alongside me, and I myself and I have not played in the context of humanitarian visas. I would like to inform you correctly and as fully as possible. I have therefore spent the last few days trying to check a number of data and figures. The text of my speech, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, is available to Members. Of course, I am also willing to answer any questions. Ladies and gentlemen, the first meeting I had with a delegation from the Christian Syrian community in Aalst dates from 23 January 2016. This was done in my capacity as a ship of the city of Aalst, which is responsible, among other things, for foreign affairs and integration. That meeting took place because the members of this community were looking for a suitable location for their celebrations. Six weeks later, on 7 March 2016, I called a second meeting in which I brought these people into contact with the blanket and a pastor. From these contacts there has been an agreement whereby the Syrian community could make use of a Catholic church on Aalster's territory, in particular the Sacred Heart Church, for their worship. For the football fans among you, Mr President, that is the church near the stadium of Eendracht Aalst. The Syrian Christians are not the only ones that have been helped in this way. In Aalst, for example, there is also a church that has been made available to the Romanian Orthodox community, with whom I have recently sat around the table to see how the restoration of that church can be dealt with. This is a little out of the question, but I believe that this is a good way to re-determine or co-determine churches. In the margins of those talks, I was asked by the Syrian community about the way humanitarian visas work, which was also reported in the media at the time. I said at the time that I would inform myself about this. A while later, on 14 April 2016, in the margins of a meeting, I addressed the then Secretary of State, Theo Francken. Because it was not the right time in the circumstances of that evening.......................................................................................................................................................................................... I visited the Secretary of State's office shortly afterwards, which was still on the corner of the Hertogstraat at the time and thus within walking distance of the Flemish Parliament. I was received there by an associate who explained to me the procedure of a D-visa under Article 9 of the Foreigner's Act. In short, however, you know that from the previous hearings, if any candidates were invited after a screening, they would then cross the border from Syria to Lebanon and get a chance to travel to Belgium via the Belgian embassy in Beirut, where they could apply for asylum within the year. These asylum applications will then be dealt with in the same way as all other asylum applications. During the conversation I was also made clear that this procedure was specifically intended for vulnerable persons. I then held a number of meetings with different people from the Syrian community in Aalst, explaining the procedure to them. By different people from the Syrian Church community, after deliberation, on which I was not present, because I could not offer any added value, a number of names were put forward. The lists and personal contact I had with a number of people involved afterwards show that these are mainly older people and families with young children from the region of Hasaka-Kamishli. It is an area northeast of Syria, where people were trapped between, on the one hand, the closed Turkish border and, on the other hand, the advancing militias of IS, who, by the way, have conquered part of that area, killed a number of people and driven thousands of people on the run. I do not, of course, have the opportunity, either in my capacity as a vessel or in my capacity as a Flemish Member of Parliament, to verify the situation on the spot. However, I've seen videos of bombing on iphones. I've seen scars of people getting hurt by shrapnel. I've seen photos of people who died and destroyed buildings. We are talking about the situation in 2015-2016. So they were people who came from Syria themselves, not just from Syria but from an enclosed frontline area. These were mainly older people and families with young children. Ladies and gentlemen, I have read in a report from a previous hearing that, according to some, Syrian Christians would be a materially privileged group in Syria. Those richer families will undoubtedly exist. However, the people I have met are people who live in sober and sometimes precarious conditions. I had and still have every reason to believe that they were indeed vulnerable people. Then how did it go on? In order to prevent, so to speak, a person from visiting me every day with one or two names, to avoid double requests, to ensure that the correct documents were delivered, to transcend the language barrier that was of course there, a consensus has been reached to designate Mr Konstantin Al Chammas as coordinator. Once a number of files had been compiled and checked for their completeness, they were sent to the Francken cabinet. A total of 100 to 103 people are involved throughout the period, depending on whether you count a newborn baby with the mother or as a separate person. The delivery of the names and handling of the files was not done at once, not with a single list, but at different stages from November 2016 to March 2018. The largest number of applications was in the initial period. That number has then been reduced quite quickly and continuously. A number of corrections have to be made to the dossiers submitted in this way. I remember the case of a lady who had given birth in the meantime and where a dossier had to be compiled for the child. I remember the case of someone who had died in the meantime. I also remember a situation in which someone was married and wanted his wife to come along. I cannot inform you about the further progress because I was not involved in any way. If I'm well informed, those people made the trip entirely on their own. So I know that no one went from Aalst to Beirut to act as an intermediary there. Eventually, between 100 and 103 people, 89 came to Belgium. I heard that number a few days ago, in the preparation of this hearing. Eleven to 14 people didn't get out of the area. Someone's been captured by the militia by now. Some have found another way out of the area. A number of people have also decided to stay on the ground because of all kinds of circumstances. Although I have not followed the course of the 103 files, I have, of course, been in contact with the Syrian people who stayed in Aalst. For example, on 8 February 2017, Mr Al Chammas visited my cabinet in Aalst with Monsignor George Kourih, the bishop for the Syrian Orthodox Church for Belgium, France and Luxembourg, and the bishop thanked me for his modest contribution. For me, the bishop's presence and words of thanks were an indication that the operation enjoyed support within the community and that those involved acted bona fidely. More than a year later, I was invited by Mr Al Chammas to attend a mass on 10 April 2018, followed by a meal, which continued in Aalst and where again the same bishop and a number of other priests of the Syrian Orthodox Church were present, along with several dozen people from those hundred files, which I actually saw for the first time. It is on that occasion that I also met Mr Melikan Kucam for the first and only time, with whom I exchanged a few words. This is the only contact I have ever had with Mr Kucam. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot tell you much more, but perhaps three more comments or clarifications. When I speak of the Christian Syrian community of Aalst, it is not just people who were dominated in 9300 Aalst. A number of people also live in neighboring municipalities or even a little further away, but they are all people who are members of the church community who hold her Masses in the Sacred Heart Church, to which I have just referred. Secondly, and still important: I do not think it is right to talk about a kind of party filière at all. Of course, Mr Theo Francken is and am I, but if the Syrian Christians had lived in another city, they would have turned to ships of another signature. As a Member of Parliament, and I accept the same from you, I regularly come into contact with Cabinets and Ministers with a very different party card. I think it belongs to the normal political work of working across party boundaries on certain dossiers. If that minister is from the same party, then so be it. Nor is it true that all of these Syrian Christians have suddenly become N-VAs. During the municipal elections I saw some posters of Green and sp.a. There was even talk of someone running for office on another list, but that did not happen in the end. To say that it is attractive to say that they are N-VAs among each other, but that this is not at all consistent with the truth. Finally, and I assume that this is unnecessary, for the sake of completeness and for the sake of clarity. Neither I nor any of my staff have ever asked or received one euro in this dossier. I have never heard stories about sums that would have been unfairly asked or about financial fraud. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that you will have been able to clarify the way in which Mr Al Chammas and myself have acted in Aalst. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u3	Thank you, Mr Van Overmeire. I give the floor to Mr Al Chammas.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my Dutch is not very good, but I will try to clarify the situation. Thank you for inviting me here to say something about the humanitarian action. I will also say something about the history of the Christians in the Middle East, especially in our area of Mesopotamia. Since 1915 we have a war every twenty or fifty years. Now it was the Islamic State, once it was about the Ottoman Empire. ... genocide (... ) Six or seven years ago, we were given a second genocide by IS in the Middle East, in Syria and Iraq. Millions of people from Iraq and Syria are fleeing the barbaric acts of Islamic State. Egyptian Christians have been decapitated in Libya. There was no light in the Middle East against the threat of Muslim fundamentalists and especially in the province of Al-Hasakah, in Al Kamishli and Ra's al-'Ayn and Syrian villages on the river Khabur. The people who tried to flee through the Turkish border were murdered on the spot. Those who were saved through the border with Turkey were found at the sea between Turkey and Greece, but without organs. Probably sold their organs to smugglers. The cities are surrounded by IS and it is not possible for these people to flee abroad, to Lebanon or Jordan. Lebanon and Jordan are far from our province, more than 1 400 kilometres. The only solution for the Christians in the province of Al-Hasakah was to flee abroad. It was not possible to go to Turkey. The only solution was a humanitarian visa through Mr Theo Francken. On 22 April 2013, two bishops from Aleppo were kidnapped by terrorists. They were Bishop Yohanna Ibrahim of the Syrian Orthodox Church in Aleppo and Bishop Paul Yazigi of the Greek Orthodox Church. Both bishops were kidnapped on the way back from the Bab Al-Hawa border crossing on the Turkish border to Aleppo. Mr Yohanna Ibrahim's driver was murdered by terrorists on the spot. To date, every trace has been missing. Both Syrian churches are in the dark about this kidnapping. To date, there is no news at all about these two bishops, who are the head and symbol of the Christians in Syria. To this day, no one knows where these people are and whether they were murdered or still alive. That remains a question mark. On the morning of 23 September 2015, IS executed three Assyrian Christians in Syria. On that date the Muslims celebrated the Sacrifice. The three Assyrians wore orange clothes and were kneeled. They were killed by gunshots to the back of the head. They were later identified as the doctor Abdulmasih Enwiya, Ashur Abraham and Basam Michael from one of Assyrian villages in Al-Hasakah. The three Assyrians were part of a group of 253 Assyrians who were kidnapped by IS on 23 February 2015. Then 35 Assyrian villages were taken by the river Nahr Al-Khabur in the province of Al-Hasakah. About 15,000 people fled after the kidnapping of the Christians by ISIS, to Kamishli or elsewhere. Some people had poison in their homes to take in when IS would invade their home and they couldn't go anywhere. They didn't want to see the bad things that ISIS did with the Christians. Older people stayed on the scene because their children had fled, had been murdered or had been kidnapped. Very sick people stayed there, too. Our church in Aalst has had a lot of contact, and the people in Syria have also contacted us, with Assyrians in Germany, Sweden and Belgium. We have always sought a solution. The community of our church in Aalst has selected five people to help people from Syria. Later I was elected coordinator of the Syrian community in Aalst. We have collected and passed all passports to Karim Van Overmeire, ships of the city of Aalst. I have not written down much, because Mr Van Overmeire has already explained the situation. However, our people say that IS is still present: they may have shaved their beard, but they are still there and are waiting for the moment to start killing again. There used to be more than two million Christians in Syria, now there may be between 2 and 300 000 left. They are all ready to flee Syria. I hope that in the future all parties will stop arguing about the Syrian Christians. Leave those people alone, for they fled to give a new life to their families. For example, my family is spread across 15 countries: part in the Netherlands and Germany, others in Sweden and Australia. I repeat that the best solution was found for us by Mr Theo Francken. In the last 100 years no one has ever thought of the Christians to give them help. Mr Francken was the only person who thought of us and did everything for us. I don't have any experience with this kind of thing myself, but I was invited for the first time to help my people. I've done my best for all the families. All the people who ended up in Aalst and Brussels are grateful to Belgium, especially Mr Theo Francken.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u5	As agreed, we shall now first put the questions to Mr Van Overmeire and Mr Al Chammas.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u6	Mr President, no one in this area disputes the importance of humanitarian visas. What is problematic is the Francken system in which visas were issued without anyone, even within the government, having control and working with unofficial intermediaries, which no one had control over either. A particularly sensitive system of fraud was thus put in place, which ultimately led to outright fraud, corruption and self-enrichment. That's what this is about. Mr Al Chammas, at the end of your speech, you thanked Theo Francken and you said that salvation would never have happened without him. However, a member of the government is not a wild benefactor who gives privileges to certain preferred intermediaries and can issue official documents directly, without official control and with a very rapid administrative procedure. That's not how it works in our country. That's not the way it's supposed to work in our country. Both yourself and Mr Van Overmeire have said that it was the only solution. However, I noticed something in what you said, Mr Van Overmeire. You said that more than 100 people came from the Kamishli region. We received a document from the UN Refugee Organisation a few weeks ago. That document states that since 2015, the UN has had six offices in Syria, including Kamishli, in the region from which those people come, for the rescue operations through you as an intermediary. You both said it was the only solution, but the UN, a recognised organisation, had been active there for years. Moreover, the UN Refugee Organisation has said that it has expertise, not only in guiding countries that want to issue humanitarian visas, but also in setting up corridors and, in other words, in leading people away from a conflict zone to a safe area. The UN Refugee Organisation itself already had expertise in this and was there on the ground. In fact, we have not been given any explanation of the procedure, but the UN Refugee Organisation was already present in the places where with your help people have been removed. I believe it was a mistake of Theo Francken to blindly trust two contacts. I am talking about Melikan Kucam, but also about the channel through Mr Al Chammas and Mr Van Overmeire. It has been a conscious choice to outsource an important aspect of asylum policy, in particular humanitarian visas, to intermediaries who happen to have an N-VA party card. It's a little too much coincidence for me. If we look at the list of intermediate organisations and intermediaries with whom Theo Francken has worked, we only see you, together with Melikan Kucam, as an individual intermediary, without control, without a protocol agreement, without this being known in the government. Those two channels happen to be two individual intermediaries with an N-VA party card. That's a little too coincidental for me. Mr Van Overmeire, you also state that you have been in contact with the cabinet from your capacity as a vessel. I would like to point out that you are the only vessels that have acted as intermediaries in this matter. That's all a little too coincidental to me. I think the analysis is very clear and very clear. People with a party member card had an access ticket to Theo Francken's cabinet and were blindly trusted by him. We know the consequences until today. Mr Van Overmeire, I have the following questions for you. We have not received any information on the progress of the selection. You say that lists were drawn up by the Syrian community in Aalst, but you were not present at those meetings. Have you ever carried out a check on the persons on that list yourself? Did you try to check things out? Have you tried to check the degree of vulnerability? Under the assumption that all concerned are vulnerable people, how did we achieve the total selection of 100 people? There are many vulnerable people in Syria, including many vulnerable Syrian Christians. On what basis are those hundred people, the hundred lucky ones, taken out and put on that list? That's an important question you haven't answered. Mr Al Chammas, you did not answer that question either. However, you were the contact person, as this was further outsourced to you. Can you explain how the selection of the hundred people on those lists was made in those two years? Who decided who was on that list? Were there any organisations or expertise involved in that area? Which local intermediaries were employed in Syria itself, who was called upon there, who were the contacts there? To what extent was religion really the distinguishing factor, the distinguishing criterion? Mr Van Overmeire and Mr Al Chammas, I would also like to ask you both about the support from the cabinet. Have you ever received any critical questions from the cabinet? For example, have you received a question of control, who came up with it, method of selection, vulnerability? Which cabinet employee did that happen in your case? Mr Al Chammas, you just said that at some point you passed passports to Karim Van Overmeire. That's not clear to me. Can you explain in a moment what exactly that was about? If I understand correctly, these people have come to Lebanon or Turkey on their own. They rescued themselves from Syria and reached Lebanon or Turkey, where they were received by the consulate and crossed the border with papers, and that is how the whole procedure started. Have you heard rumors about fraud in other filières, in other collective rescue operations or procedures? Mr Van Overmeire, you said that you have never been to Lebanon or Turkey for the procedure in question. Mr Al Chammas, have you been to Lebanon or Turkey to help with that procedure? How were the persons on your lists delivered to the Beirut consulate? In what way have you both been introduced to the consulate in Beirut or not? Has a protocol agreement been drawn up with the Cabinet for your procedure? Are there any appointments on paper there? Finally, has the government decided, if necessary, not to grant visas to persons on the lists delivered to the cabinet?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u7	I would like to thank Mr Van Overmeire and Mr Al Chammas for their testimony, honest and straightforward, but I do have a number of questions. I shall first put my questions to Mr Van Overmeire. Mr Van Overmeire, I was once a ship myself. I've also come into contact with a lot of these problems. I think it is commendable that you are trying to find a suitable location for religious groups and to find partners for this. I only hope that you will do so for all religious communities and not just for certain communities. After all, it is a human right to have that space wherever one lives. A number of questions have already been asked by my colleagues. I still want to know who decided when to appoint Mr Al Chammas as the selection person, who had to follow up the files further? On the basis of what criteria was Mr Al Chammas selected to draw up the lists of people who could obtain a visa to come to Belgium? So how were the lists drawn up? Was that through the Syrian community that was already there? Was that mostly about family members? Was that about their parents because you said there were a lot of older people around? Was that about their children and grandchildren? What exactly is that all about? Then how was it contacted with the people who could provide information about the living situation of people in Syria? If those persons gave up names, how was it checked whether the persons mentioned were really in a vulnerable position, or whether those people could be trusted? You say it was about a poor population. You said there are also poor Syrians. I never said they were all rich, Mr. Van Overmeire. As in all countries, there are cities with rich inhabitants and rural areas with poorer inhabitants. We see that they went from the northeast to Lebanon. That's almost horizontal across the country. That does not seem easy to me for very vulnerable people in a war zone. How was that organized? Who paid for that? Did that happen through the Christian community? Sometimes I read: through monasteries. Could you give me a more detailed explanation? What also strikes me is that there are about a hundred people. Is that a hundred-dollar quota agreed in advance, or is that merely a coincidence? Apart from the fact that there have been a number of births and marriages in the meantime, that is noteworthy. As a final question, has there ever been a change from the cabinet to the lists? So, for example, if you gave 100, did the cabinet or anyone else than ever say that there were, for example, two that really couldn't pass? Then why was that? Or didn't that ever happen? Finally, I would like to stress this strongly with regard to Mr Al Chammas, because I can understand that this is very surprising and weird - MEPs must ensure that people are treated equally in certain situations. I can understand why you speak of Secretary of State Francken as a redeemer of all problems and I suspect, from your point of view, that you probably will. However, I would like to testify that almost all Members of this House here in committee are mainly concerned that people are being treated correctly and that not the people with a lot of money, or with a lot of power, or with the right party card, or belonging to the religious group that is best appreciated, are given the opportunities, while other people do not get those opportunities, although they are in similar situations or sometimes even in more vulnerable situations. It is up to the parliamentary committee to check ministers and State Secretarys can and should also be checked if they have done their job properly. For the sake of clarity, we do not question whether people should be transferred here. On the contrary, I believe that the people who are asking the most critical questions here have often been in favour of bringing in the most vulnerable people from the UN refugee camps. The interests are not in any way opposed. We just want the procedures and the legislation in force to be properly followed. That's finality. If it can be shown that certain people in difficult situations were very vulnerable, that they had little resources and that special actions were needed for them, then we have no problem with that. We do have a problem with it if people could get visas for a heavy fee. If that is the case, I am not saying that it is; the investigation is ongoing, then that is fundamentally unfair. That is all I want to say.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Van Overmeire and Mr Al Chambas, my group is extremely sensitive to the situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u9	Mr President, we are looking for the translation, because Mr Al Chammas does not speak French.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u10	You will receive the Dutch translation via channel 2.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u11	Gentlemen, I wanted to tell you that I am particularly sensitive to the situation of Christians in the East. I visited the field several times, especially in August 2014 when Mosul was taken. I went to meet people fleeing the Islamic State in Iraq. I also had the opportunity to go to Syria on several occasions. The question is not whether or not to help these communities that, in certain situations and on certain occasions, have been specific targets of IS, as have other communities, for example, the Yezidis. What is shocking and surprising is the way in which the Secretary of State has dealt with it and the fact that some of these people (even if you tell us that this has not been the case with you) have been targeted on the basis of their solvency and not on the basis of their vulnerability. These two elements shock us, namely, that it was not certain that they were the most vulnerable and that some of them paid very large sums. You told us about the situation in Qamichli in 2015 and 2016 by telling us that you had seen horrible scenes there. I went there in December 2015. I can tell you that Qamichli's situation was certainly not one of the worst in Syria and Iraq. I would like you to have pictures of the Saint-Nicolas des enfants, if you are interested. We went to churches to meet the Christian community, under the shock of what had happened several months earlier in the Kabour Valley. But we were also able to move around this valley. The demand of the local communities was to be protected while remaining on the ground and to receive assistance. I do not think the Secretary of State has done much in this direction. It was their first request and it remains their first request. Today, these communities continue to cry out for relief in order to receive protection and assistance on the spot. I regret the many amalgams made by the Secretary of State and his party about the urgency of helping Christians in the East: in a way, everything was allowed, that is to say, to organize channels without criteria, to bring here people who might have preferred to be helped and protected there, and to extort funds from them. For some of them, in any case, this has been demonstrated. My questions are therefore similar to those of my colleagues. Mr Al Chambas, what are your special qualities in relation to the vulnerability of certain people? How were you chosen? Why? Under what criteria? Mr Van Overmeire, Mr Al Chambas, why not have worked with professional organisations specialized in these issues of vulnerability, help? Why didn't you object to the vulnerability criteria? Why was Qamichli chosen? I was surprised to see that none of the Christians in Iraq ever received a humanitarian visa when they suffered the worst abuses in the Mosul Valley and in Mosul? What were the criteria? Why have professional organisations not been used? Why were maximum visas issued in 2017 and 2018, when the abuses took place in 2014 and 2015 and since 2015, the population has mainly sought to return home? Why did you issue visas massively - probably by chance - on the eve of the election campaign? Indeed, in September 2018 there was a peak in terms of visas granted, according to the figures given to us at previous committee meetings. It was at that time that the greatest number of visas were granted. In any case, it is a question of those directly granted by Mr Franken's office. These are the questions we ask ourselves. Mr. Al Chambas, how were you doing? Did you choose according to the people you knew? Were they parents, friends? Had a procedure been put in place for obtaining a humanitarian visa? It would be interesting if we could get answers to these questions and understand the basis on which people were selected. With respect to extortion of funds, you stated that you were neither involved in this case. But could you tell us when you were made aware of the fact that money had been requested? How have you been warned? By whom? Mr. Al Chambas, have you been alerted? Indeed, this has been known for some time in the Syrian community. There had been warnings in Belgium, but also in other European countries where rumours were circulating, according to which things were happening in Belgium. Mr Al Chambas, have you not been alerted to the fact that in Germany and Sweden there were questions about what was happening in Belgium, given that we were informed that there were requests for large sums of money? Have some people offered you money? As it was known that money had to be given, did people offer you money to come to Belgium? If so, what did you do at that time?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u12	Mr President, I have a number of questions for Mr Al Chammas. Before I ask them, I would like to explain why so many Members are asking questions about this. That is, of course, because in committee many Members of Parliament have put questions to Mr Francken about the criteria used for granting these humanitarian visas, and that there have never been any answers to them. That has always been a great secret here on the Rue de la Loi. Hence the first specific question for you, also because Mr Francken boasts that in 2011 he strengthened the rules on family reunification, so that they are limited to the core family, the core family. How did you select those names? Were they people, Aalstenaars of the Syrian community who passed you on or were those names you were suggested from Syria? If it's about names you've been suggested from Syria, you'll have had contacts there. Then who were those contacts? If such contacts existed, were the names of those contacts ever passed on to the Secretary of State's cabinet? Has there been any kind of screening? Second, you've been appointed an intermediary. That is an important role. I'd like to know if you've had a screening? Did anyone find out who you were? A screening has nothing to do with mistrust, but is a standard procedure. I would find it very special if someone who performs such an important role as an intermediary would not have been screened himself. My next question is a little in line with my first question. The Secretary of State has always said it's about vulnerability. In what way did you, or other intermediaries, should they have been there, investigate that vulnerability? In short, who was on that list? Who were they? Were those names that you were suggested in Belgium by other people present here or by Aalstenaars or were those names that came from Syria? Then how did those names come here from Syria? Have you been screened yourself because, as it turned out afterwards, you did perform a very important function?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u13	If no one asks to speak, I shall give the floor again to Mr Van Overmeire and Mr Al Chammas.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u14	Mr President, many questions, including a few double ones, but I will try to answer them all correctly. If I forget a question, you will point that out to me. Firstly, I would like to point out to all the committee members that I am in a special position. I am, of course, not Mr Theo Francken's mouthpiece. You've already had a hearing with him. I can tell you about my experiences in Aalst and what happened in Aalst. I also understand, when I read the reports from the hearing, that there is a whole debate on the D visa under Article 9 and whether or not criteria should be linked to it and what that leads to and whether, if the criteria are too strict, it still is... that is a discussion that should be held here among the parliamentarians in the committee and in the federal Parliament. As far as I have an opinion on that, it's not really... It is an instrument that has been used in the past. Now you note that it is not being used in the way you want it to be. That is a political debate among the members of the committee, but not with Karim Van Overmeire, who is coming to a hearing here. It is, of course, my conviction that former Secretary of State Theo Francken has responded with the best of intentions and all in good faith. Mrs De Coninck, you have said that it is the concern of Members that everyone is treated equally. This is also an important principle for me. This is also an important principle in a rule of law. However, if the D visa applies equal treatment to the rest of the world under Article 9, then we are not talking about tens or hundreds but about tens and hundreds of thousands of people. I leave it to the honourable Members of this committee to discuss it during the present or the forthcoming legislature and to find a solution to the problem. Mr De Vriendt, you do not believe that the party hearing and the fact that we have the same party card are coincidental. I don't think I can convince you otherwise. I can only tell you that the question comes from the Syrian people who were already present in Aalst and who contacted me. It's not like Secretary Francken visited the N-VA ships to look up some Syrians. It's not like that. You either believe that or you don't believe that. If those people had lived fifteen kilometres south of Ninove or fifteen kilometres north of Dendermonde in Dendermonde's Horresco referens, my fellow Member, they might have approached another ship there, who would probably have contacted them. You've seen the list. There are people from different party signatures on it. I can't convince you, but you have to believe me on my word that the party hearing didn't really play that way. How did the selection happen? That question was rightly asked several times. I tried to give you an answer to that. Have I been able to check that out of Aalst? No. If someone shows me a video on YouTube of, for example, a lady in the office who shows how the bombs and grenades fall to the left and right of that office building and who shows a panorama of the bombed city, then I assume it is right. If someone shows me a scar and says it's from a shrapnel, I assume it's justified. I haven't been able to control those hundred people individually. I don't think anyone could. When these lists were drawn up, we did go over the lists, look at who those people are and ask for some explanation about those people. Yeah, they were vulnerable people in my eyes. Were those the most vulnerable people of all 20 million Syrians? Probably not. But in my view they were vulnerable people in a very precarious situation, twisted between the Turkish border and, in 2015, the advancing Islamic State. And people were being held hostage, people were being executed, people were being chased away, with thousands, there are people who had suicide pills ready. That seems to me to be a situation in which people living there can be assumed to be in need. Then I come to the question of which member of staff in the cabinet spoke to me. That was two of them. In a first phase that was Mr Thomas Moens. That's also the man who first explained the procedure to me. Later that was Mrs. Lies Verlinden. At a later stage, she took over Mr Moens's duties in this area. Then I'll come to pass on the passports. Just so we're clear, we didn't pass on any passports at all. It's true that in drawing up that list, those people had to be identified. Those people had to send a copy of their passport from Syria or the identification page on that passport. Those photocopies were then passed on. The passports as such have not been in my hands at any time. At the time when the file was compiled, even before it went to the Francken cabinet, of course one had to be able to identify those people and so one needed a photocopy of those people who stayed in Syria. It has had many feet in the earth to get that information from all those people, but in the end it has succeeded. A question was also whether these people saved themselves. No, of course it's not like that. One must be correct there. Those people were trapped in Syria. The Assad government, the Syrian regime, believes that people should stay in the country, and so does not cooperate. The only way you're going to cross the border is with an official document, a laissez-passer, that's provided to those people. Basically, you get an invitation to the Belgian embassy in Beirut and you cross the border with that invitation. If you don't get that invitation, those people won't make it across the border. How did these people get from the enclave to the first step of Damascus? Mr Al Chammas will be able to clarify this. I have heard of people who, for example, with military planes of the Syrian army, were standing upright in the transporter......................................................................................................................................................................................... How they financed that, each of those 100 cases, I don't know. I wasn't involved. Perhaps Mr Al Chammas can explain this. I can't tell you any more about that. Rumors about other filières, I must say that I have not heard anything about them at any time. We worked with the files we had. There hasn't been a meeting with other people at any time. I have also heard about the other channels and other people who have put forward names in other ways, as this problem came into the media. There has never been contact between us and the 7, 8 or 9 other contacts or channels. To be very clear, after the outbreak of the Syrian civil war, I have never been to Lebanon or Syria. Before that, yes. A year before the Syrian civil war, I was in both countries. My wife bought me this tie there in Damascus for my birthday, which I now put on for the occasion. A year before the civil war, Damascus was actually a fantastic city. It's still a big surprise to me, but nobody, I'm not, if Westerling who was a tourist there could suspect that in barely a year's time the situation there would completely change in a dramatic sense. If you compared that to Lebanon, I would have gambled much more in Lebanon as a country of instability where the army was everywhere. From Syria I actually got mostly positive messages. So you can see that it's hard to estimate the situation from the outside. We ourselves have never been introduced, either Mr Al Chammas or myself, in one way or another, to the consulate or the Belgian embassy in Beirut. We have never played any role there. The only role we have played is to pass the names on to the Francken cabinet. The protocol agreement was not signed, but I said in my speech that when I was explained to me the procedure under Article 9 for obtaining a visa D, I was made clear that it had to be about vulnerable persons. That's the story we've always told. People have taken that into account in their evaluation. - Any names denied? - No. I don't know. I have no knowledge of people who were on that list and were eventually refused. Mrs De Coninck, you have asked me whether I am equally committed to all religious communities. For the record, I'm an atheist, rather persistent even. Mrs. Smeyers, who is in the Aalst College with me, knows that. I sometimes compete with Jean-Jacques De Gucht in maintaining the classic position, for example when it comes to the neutrality of the government. Otherwise, I try to fulfil my ship's mandate properly, which means that I have contacts with everyone and I try to treat everyone properly. This applies to the Syrian Christians, but also to the Romanian Orthodox community or to the people of the Turkish mosque. You can contact them. I think we have a good understanding. The same applies to the dervish community or people of the various African communities. I'm not saying all the contacts are equally friendly. Sometimes it has to click between people, but you won't hear any complaints about how people or communities are being treated by me. How was Mr Al Chammas selected? Let there be no misunderstanding about that. The word coordinator has fallen here. That's a pretty heavy word. What was the reality? We have had a few meetings, where five or six people were present.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u15	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u16	You explain that procedure. The next day someone came up with two names. The next day someone came up with three names. After that, someone else came and tried to remove or add someone from the list. That's when I said it wasn't a way to work. I asked them to watch it together. Mr Al Chammas was the contact person with the ecclesiastical government, if I may put it that way. If I'm wrong, he can contradict me. Within his community, he has prestige and support. He apologized for his unperfect Dutch, but other people spoke a lot less Dutch. That is why we decided by common accord to discuss them together if there were any names. Mr. Al Chammas... there have often been people with it.. would then deliver those names to us. I must remain responsible for the answer to the question as to how these journeys ended up. The names were passed on and those people were then notified, but I can't tell you exactly how they paid for that trip. You believe it or not, but the number 100 or 103 is an accidental number. It is not the case that we started in 2016 and that the cabinet or former Secretary of State Francken said that we could make 100 people happen. There were names, then some names were added and others disappeared. After a while, that fell silent, because the community has proposed the names she wants to recite. So after a while, that stopped. We have calculated that in the last few days, and we have reached 100, but that might as well be another number. Mr Dallemagne, you are shocked if the accusations prove true. That is what it looks like, but let us, of course, wait for the ongoing judicial investigation, because as long as someone is not convicted, he is innocent. Let us assume that. But if it turns out that way, I'm as shocked as you are. I have done this with the very best intentions, in a correct way, just like Mr Al Chammas, but at the end of the story we are being dismissed as some kind of accomplices of human smugglers. That is, of course, the very last thing I want and it has not been my intention at all. It was absolutely not intended that people were selected on the basis of their financial capacity, so that only the richer people who could pay the thousands or tens of thousands of euros were allowed to happen and the others were not. I am as deguised and shocked about this as you are, so let me be clear. You say you were on the scene and there were places where it was worse. I don't deny that either, but the situation on the ground wasn't okay at all: those people were trapped in an enclave, there was another Syrian base there, IS was nearby. It may be said that IS has never conquered Hasakah in the end, but we know that now. Afterwards, it's always easy to predict the future. A family with small children in that neighborhood, with IS a few kilometers away, naturally tries to escape, because if IS takes up the city, they don't have much time to get away from it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u17	There were Syrian villages where it was safe, but one night everything was gone.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u18	Yeah, so it can happen really fast. I know the debate, of course, because I am sure you will also know that I am concerned with the Christians in the Middle East and also in Armenia, Nagorno-Karabakh and so on. Every Christian who comes to Europe is, of course, a Christian who no longer lives in the Middle East, thereby reducing their number there. This is partly the end of these communities, the end of a history of 2000 years. The Christians formed a quarter of the Syrian population in 1920. Now that's less than 10 %. The same applies to Lebanon and Egypt. These communities are being seen to fade away as a result of emigration, a lower birth rate and so on. That is dramatic and I can understand that a lot of people, including a large part of the church, say that as many people as possible should be kept there. That is an understandable point of view, but it is rather comfortable to tell it from Brussels or Paris or from a safe place in Damascus. If one sits in the village and knows that ISIS can stand there within 24 hours to kill the children, then one looks at it slightly differently. You say those visas were issued just before the election campaign. Okay, I'll leave that on your tab. After all, a person who applies for asylum here has no right to vote. Whether that has so strongly influenced the result of the vote... but well, that's a political reflection. The last question was when I heard that. I heard that when it hit the news, pretty late in the day. I remember sitting at home at the table in the living room. It was 9:00 in the evening. My wife came in and said that a city councilman from N-VA in Mechelen had gotten into trouble with those visas. That's what I watched the news to see exactly what was going on there. That was the first moment I heard of it. Mr Dallemagne, I know that on a previous occasion you suggested that I would have had contact with Mr Kucam in advance, in July or August. I'd like to get more details about that because I met this guy once and we never talked about it. I've never had any contact with that whole filière. If you are specific about this, I can tell you more about it. However, I can tell you by heart that I did not know that until it came into the media. Mr President, I have tried to answer all the questions as accurately and comprehensively as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u19	Mr Al Chammas, would you like to add something to this?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u20	Mr President, most of the questions have already been answered by Mr Van Overmeire. However, questions were also asked directly to me. Mr De Vriendt said that there were four or five UN offices in Syria. I never heard that. Especially in Kamishli, I've asked a lot of our friends. I never heard there was a U.N. office or office. Nor have I ever heard that the UN has brought Christians from Syria here. A question was also asked about N-VA membership. However, I was not a member of any political party. In December 2018 I joined N-VA and I am happy about that. I have never travelled to Beirut or Turkey and have never visited the embassies there either. I was asked how I was elected president of our community. Well, this is done by the members of our community who elected me. Each day contacts took place with Mr Van Overmeire in connection with passports or copies thereof. Therefore, a person who can speak a little Dutch was sought and opted to choose one person instead of five or six people. That is how the decision has been made and to this day I am chairman of the church community. I'm glad I'm being trusted. Under what financial conditions did the people come here? Well, we have never asked for money from those involved. There is no need for money to obtain a visa. However, a plane ticket had to be bought for the flight from Kamishli to Damascus, from which the car was driven to Lebanon, and then flown from Lebanon to Brussels. So we never asked for money. It took money for the plane ticket and for the administration fee for the visa at the embassy. Last October, some people called me and our pastor who had heard that a residence permit for EUR 2 500 could be obtained in Belgium. Of course, we could not confirm such stories; I had never heard of them. If we asked who provided this information, it was only said that they had heard it. I contacted Mr Kucam and asked him if he had heard anything about the situation. He said, "I didn't hear anything about those rumors." Later, people said they paid, but they didn't know who. Nobody knows. Is that true or not? Nobody knows. That remains the question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u21	Who else is asking for the floor? However, I would remind you that there are still speakers and that we still have a bill to discuss at 4:30 p.m. I am counting on your sense of responsibility to ensure that the matter can move forward in the time we have.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u22	Mr President, I find this quite appalling. Neither can give us an answer to the question of how the list was drawn up and who has decided who came and who has not. Many colleagues have asked this question and there is no answer. The reason is quite simple. Because you don't know. Mr Van Overmeire, you must also realise that this whole procedure is not good governance. This is raging on all sides. You must hear yourself: one person gave me two names and then someone else gave me another name. That was too much and then we referred to Mr Al Chammas and we arrived at those 100 names in the long run. Were they vulnerable? I think so because I've seen videos and I've seen scars, so I think they were vulnerable. All those passports would end up with me. You are ships in Aalst. You have no special function in asylum and migration policy in our country. You have no special expertise in this and yet you have been an important figure in the granting of 100 humanitarian visas by the cabinet of Theo Francken. This is a procedure that rattles. This is not the care and reliability to be expected from a government policy. Maybe they paid in Syria to get on that list of 100 people. You don't know. You do not know how the selection happened, which people were working with in Syria. We have not received any reply to that. There was no protocol agreement. There was nothing on paper. You said that no names were refused by the cabinet. After all, that's the next step? You don't really know what people they're talking about. The cabinet trusts you blindly and takes over all the names. That's not a normal way to work, is it? That's not a careful, reliable procedure, is it? If one sets in motion such an unreliable procedure and it goes wrong, that is not an accident the course. I think that's important. If the former Secretary of State has set all this up in such a way, one should not be surprised that it went wrong. The fact that all this was allowed to happen is something that really pisses me off. 100 people, and you can't tell me how the selection happened. Nor can you say that there has been cooperation with an official organization. That didn't happen. However, the UN was active there, Mr Al Chammas. The fact that you don't know that is...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u23	Were you there?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u24	Mr Van Overmeire, the UN Refugee Organisation says in its official opinion that it has delivered to our committee that it is active there. I honestly don't blame you for not knowing that. You don't need to know that either. You're not an expert. But I blame the former Secretary of State for assigning two people who are not experts in this area a central role in the granting of humanitarian visas. I blame the former Secretary of State for that. You say you don't even know the UN was there. If you play such a role, you should know that. You've done your thing, but it's the Secretary of State who gave you a free pass for that. That is completely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u25	When I hear it like that, you have responded reasonably to his Flemish, so to speak. You have been in contact with some people from your community who were concerned about their family members and possibly friends. It's often about big families. A signal has been given that they would like to bring those people here in the framework of family reunification, in broad form. Those people were probably in danger, but you weren't really sure. You had a certain sympathy for a group of people. That's what I'm blaming, for the record, no one. Then it was said, probably from the cabinet, that one would contact, that a list had to be drawn up. Mr Van Overmeire, you yourself said in your statement that we have gone over that list. So it wasn't passing on. You crossed the list with a group of people, as you just stated. Some have fallen off the list; some have joined, as you have explained. There has been a form of discussion or selection there. You've done it with all your consciences. I just don't know what criteria have been used for that. The fact is that in the cabinet the list has simply been taken over and no one has been refused. There's been no further investigation. So you were de facto the selection committee. Perhaps you didn't expect that, and you expected, when you gave the list to the cabinet, that the cabinet might do a check. You might have thought that you had simply forwarded the questions, but in fact it was not. What amazes me very much as a practical person is the whole affair around the papers. You have a list. You must have a copy of a passport. Those involved are in a war zone. Are there any photocopiers there? How are these papers sent? How long does it take? How are the papers checked? Tickets and planes must be ordered. Those involved must get on the plane and have the papers. They must come to Lebanon via Damascus or not. That is an incredible organization, in which many people or very specialised people must have been involved. However, I do not get an answer to my concerns. I also have some questions about the costs. Who, for example, paid the costs to the DVZ? In order to obtain a visa, it is necessary to pay. Who paid? Where's the money coming from? The fact that a list of 100 or 103 people is being drawn up, all of whom have the possibility of getting here financially and organizationally, is not obvious to me. You seem to have been very lucky. Finally, how is integration going? Who's gonna take care of that? Do they get a living wage and child's money? Are they further followed by the religious communities or by the government? Mr Van Overmeire, for the record, I am also an atheist. However, I would like to point out that you may have to knock on the shoulder of your N-VA colleague at Flemish level, Mrs Homans. People pay taxes. People have rights. They have duties but also rights. So it's worth a discussion. Mrs. Homans could probably learn a lot from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u26	Mr Van Overmeire, we want to say: "What an amateurism!" In fact, that is not the case. It's really clientelism. This is what you have always criticized other French-speaking parties in relation to certain types of population. It's even worse, because it's with vulnerable people. You didn't really try to help them. This is not what these Qamichli populations were asking for. And other people, who were already on their way to exile, did not receive visas. Yet they were on their way to exile and wanted to be protected in our country. Unfortunately, these visas have been granted to their detriment. You have not answered our questions in a precise way, and unfortunately it is because of the fact that it is not a parliamentary committee of inquiry. Otherwise, you could - and should - respond more accurately. Mr Al Chambas, you have not answered any of our questions. I would like to know on what basis and according to what criteria you chose these people. How did this happen in practice? Did people contact you from Syria? Did you contact them yourself? Were they the families? None of these people were denied a visa. How was the screening done? How did you choose these people? You tell us that the situation was very serious. I'm sorry, but again, the situation was very serious in 2014 and early 2015. After that, people mostly tried to rebuild and this is still the case today. You continued to give visas in 2016, 2017 and 2018. It was especially during those years that the number of such visas was very large. It is against the tide of what the community and the vast majority of Eastern Christians were looking for. That's when we protect them and help them out there. You say, Mr Van Overmeire, that you did not act because you were N-VA and that it would have been the same for any party. You know, I've been dealing with this for five years. I never intervened with Mr Franken's office, because I trusted the state's procedures and the administration. Do you know why I didn't do it, too? Because I had the following facts in mind. A few years ago, Ms Lanjri and other parliamentarians had dared to address Mr Franken's cabinet, and he had reported it to the press, saying: "Look at the pressure of some parliamentarians on the state administration and on my cabinet." We didn't do that. We preferred to trust international organizations there on the spot. UNHCR was there, as well as NGOs. We preferred to trust them so that the most vulnerable people, who are in Jordan or Lebanon and who are waiting for help or protection in our country, could receive humanitarian visas that they never receive. Never! That's what shockes us today. Through your procedures, you have preferred to act with some people who today have the card of your party. We have still not received precise information on how this was going. As far as the cost of this trip is concerned, it does not cost anything to fly to Qamichli to Damascus. It does not cost anything to pass through the authorities of Bashar al-Assad. This has a price, as well as going to the border post in Lebanon, arriving in Beirut, paying his visa and formalities and taking the plane to Belgium. It also has a price. These are costs that have been incurred by these families. Can you tell us how much it cost these families to get here in Belgium? The following are some of the questions that we have not yet received.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u27	Mr President, I will be very brief. I am amazed at the great fuss that was made around the Syrian family from Aleppo, which was absolutely not allowed to receive a humanitarian visa. As you know, I have always drawn the State Secretary's map in this case, unlike other colleagues. I am also amazed when I see the difference with the way in which humanitarian visas were distributed elsewhere in Belgium, in what amateur way. Colleagues De Coninck and De Vriendt have often asked questions about the criteria for granting humanitarian visas. The Secretary of State never replied. He couldn't answer, because apparently there were no criteria. I would like to ask Mr Al Chammas again what those selection criteria were. How did they get on that list? Mr Van Overmeire said at one point that some people went on and off. How did these people get on and why did they get off? What criteria were used? In the meantime, I have already understood that what Mrs Wouters and I wrote in the column of Knack in September of last year, when Mr Francken's book was published, namely that the Secretary of State, through humanitarian visas, was indeed circumventing his own 2011 law on stricter rules on family reunification. In fact, you have done some kind of family reunification through humanitarian visas. What were those criteria? Mr Van Overmeire said he wasn't there, so I'm obviously not addressing my question to him, but to you, Mr Al Chammas. What were the criteria? Who did you discuss this with and how did you or didn't get on that list? That is the crux of the matter and I would like an answer to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u28	I would like a further reply from Mr. Al Chambas, who told us that in October, he had been informed of rumours that member countries had been paid in the order of 2,500 euros. Sir, could you be more specific? What information did you have? Where did she come from? Have you received this information several times? What did you do with it? Obviously, this information alerted you since you yourself called Melikan Kucam to check that he had the information. Have you had any other contacts? For example, did you call the Bishop Van Overmeire since you were in constant contact with him on this issue? This information is still very serious. Why didn't you pass it on to Mr. Franken's office – perhaps you did? – or the judicial authorities?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u29	A number of questions were asked again and additional questions were added. It is up to you to see if you can still answer it and, if so, concisely. Hopefully we will be able to address the following speakers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u30	Mr President, I will reply briefly. Questions were asked again and there are a number of additional questions. A number of statements were made, of course. I did not come here with the illusion that at the end one would say: good work done in Aalst. In the end, everyone spins their straws again. Once again, Commissioner, the debate on policy should not be conducted with me, not with Aalst or a Flemish Member of Parliament. You are outraged, but I may also be a little indignant. If you say that this is about amateurism, ladies and gentlemen of this committee, if there are no criteria attached to Article 9 of the Aliens Act, then who can do anything about it? A ship in Aalst? A Flemish MP? Of say Parliament? If you want Article 9 to be linked to criteria, set criteria, conduct the debate in your Parliament and vote on that law in plenary. You shouldn't blame me for that! I see in the media that the federal government is telling us to do something special for the Syrian Christians. Syrian Christians come to me to ask how that procedure is going. I'll be in touch about that procedure. I'll explain that to those people. I say it should be about vulnerable people. Those people checked because they're from the county. I may not have said that yet, but the Syrian community in Aalst is made up of people from the same region. They know people there. Is that related? Yes. Are there any friends in there? Yes, of course. Small, agricultural communities, what do you think? Everyone knows everyone, small villages with thirty, forty to fifty people. Yes. Are those the most vulnerable people? I hope so, that was my question. Did I get a chance to personally check that out? No, I haven't been there and the United Nations haven't contacted me. All those who know so much better today did not tell me to pay attention to what I did there or to what I had to do with that procedure. You didn't know? I can understand that, but no one's been to me. (...): (...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u31	But there are no criteria! There are no criteria. I've done my best and told people to take care of vulnerable people. But here's where the criteria have to be determined. Surely it is not up to the ships of Aalst to say: lay down the criteria. Calm down, calm down, I may be outraged if you're all outraged. You're a practical person? Well, also a practical person, Mrs De Coninck, should know that even today, even in war zones, Internet connections still exist and that people can still work with mobile phones. For example, one can take a photo from the front of a passport and send it over the internet, after which it ends up with us a few seconds later. One can print that out and put it in a file as proof that someone exists effectively, that this is actually his address, that that date of birth is right, that there is a photo. One can do that perfectly. Many asked the question about the costs. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know. I passed those names on. How these people got here... I didn't go to Beirut. I didn't follow those people individually. I met some of those people one more time later, and that's it. How does their integration work? As for the people in Aalst, very good. But not all these people have come to Aalst. Many of these people, as is the case, have ended up in Brussels or other Flemish cities and municipalities. I don't follow them all. In connection with community in Aalst, we have a good understanding and if there are problems, we try to solve them. Mr Dallemagne, you say that I did not do what people ask on the ground. Well, what I didn't do, and I didn't cooperate with, is bring people here against their will. No one was brought here against his will. The possibility was through the federal government, the application was filed and eventually those people were able to make the journey. On how to save Christians in the Middle East and what is best for those communities, there may be different opinions, but in this context too, you should not ask a ship from Aalst how to save the communities of the Middle East. I know there are different strategies. But I'm not in a position to do much to improve the fate of those people. I am in a position, if anyone asks me concrete questions, to see what the procedure is and to help those people through that procedure for a bit so that they can file their files. I do that for a lot of people in a lot of different situations, and I hope you will do the same, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u32	Our people in Syria have made contact with their friends and family in Europe, in Belgium, especially in Aalst and Brussels, from the start of the war in Syria, to get help for their flight to Europe or elsewhere to a safe place. In 2015, many people started calling us to ask for help. They said they had heard of a humanitarian action in Belgium. At that time, I had never heard of it. Our church then began to look for information about the Belgian government's humanitarian action. We are therefore going to ask the person responsible for integration in Aalst for information. In 2015, a group of people from Aleppo came here. We also talked to them about a group of people from our province, from Al Hassakah, who were victims of ISIS. We have spoken to Mr Van Overmeire about this. He is a politician, knows the situation and can ask questions in Parliament. We found the person and he did the action. That's when our church started. We've only passed on names. Someone's mother was left there. Another person had his wife and two babies there. We gave him lists. It was said that copies of the passports should also be attached to that list. So everything had to be official. It wasn't enough to say that people knew those people. Some of them filled it out in Arabic. We later discussed this with Mr Van Overmeire and asked for copies of the passports. People have collected this through family and friends, and forwarded it through WhatsApp. We then printed this out. We sat together with five people, including the pastor. We did not stay there for one, two or three days, but perhaps a month to compile that list. We have drawn up that list, with copies of the passports, and passed it on to Mr Karim Van Overmeire. We later asked how the procedure went. He himself found the way and contacted the then Secretary of State. Apparently, this was fine.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u33	One more sentence. I would simply like to point out what Mr Van Overmeire has just said. He asked himself if they were vulnerable people. His answer to that was: "I should hope so." That is at the heart of the problem. For the Secretary of State, Mr Van Overmeire, that was apparently enough to sign his signature. A small newsflash: after you, and throughout the chain of decisions after you, no one else has asked themselves how these people were selected and whether they were vulnerable people. No one else! Neither the DVZ nor the Cabinet nor the Commissioner-General. No one else has asked that question. You do, and you answer yourself, "I hope so." That is at the heart of the problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u34	That was already eight sentences, Mr De Vriendt.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u35	Mr Van Overmeire, first of all, you said in the press that you yourself did not draw up lists or select people. People who came to you have referred you. You didn't follow the files. I believe that that is not true, because you said that you have crossed the lists and that some have fallen off and others have joined. I think that's a selection. Secondly, do you have any idea how many people out of 100 have finally applied for asylum in Belgium? Thirdly, I may not have understood you correctly, Mr Al Chammas, but at some point you have heard that Belgium was engaged in humanitarian action. Based on that, you've been looking for someone from the N-VA who was close to you. That was ships from Overmeire. You spoke to him to see if he could help you. Did I get that correctly? If not, can you explain it to me?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u36	I'll explain it to you. He said they've contacted local aliens' ships and integration. He didn't say he was looking for an N-VA ship. You shouldn't cut and paste. The same applies to your first comment. I didn't select. I explained the procedure to the people. The church community has sat together and made the selection, on the basis of the vulnerability criterion, which is however not defined. It's not our fault it's not defined. A list has been delivered to me. I asked who all those people were. Why did we organize it like this? Because in the period before that, so to speak, people with lists came to me twice a day. Each one, with its own list, would have been amateurism. I would like to apologize if I do not comply with your high standards, but I believe that we have worked as professionally as possible in the context of that time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u37	Where has it been heard that Belgium has been organising humanitarian actions?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u38	Before that, the Aleppo rescue operation had been in the news.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u39	It was a suction effect?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u40	That was, of course, the trigger. That was the first step in the whole story.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u41	So a suction effect has been created in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u42	I hope that I have shed a little light on the debate, Mr President. Members are still allowed to call or e-mail me. I'll try to answer their questions. I wish you a pleasant continuation of your committee meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u43	Mr Dallemagne, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u44	Mr. Van Overmeire visibly confuses arbitrary and lack of criteria. Mr President, I would like to ask Mr. Al-Chammas. I wish you would ask him to come back because he still hasn't answered the question I asked him...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u45	Mr Dallemagne, you have not read correctly what is in the texts of the Conference of Presidents and what I have repeated here several times: people can be invited to a hearing and they decide whether or not they want to come. They also say what they want to say, and leave whenever they want. It's not a court hearing or a parole hearing. We don't have that authority. Those people have come here free and free again. If you think you need to do more, then I simply note that other people have been invited and that they have still not been able to speak.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u46	Mr President, I note that people who have been invited and who claim to answer our questions have not answered our questions. I had a very important question, namely, from when Mr. Al Shamas was aware of these traffics. He answered very vaguely. I asked him to clarify, but he didn't want to clarify. He still hasn't specified and he left before specifying. This is one of the central questions of our work: from when and why this information was not transmitted? I find it absolutely unacceptable that these politicians should treat Parliament in this way. They must be asked to come back to answer that question. I did not have an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u47	Mr Dallemagne, when you put oral questions to a member of the government here in the past, you often received a very cumbersome answer. The answer to the question was not always direct. We shall now proceed with the work as planned. We will continue with the other speakers. I believe you had prepared a video. Is that the very first thing that comes up? It's coming later? Good. The people of the non-profit association Gave Veste and the President of the European Syriac Union are now being discussed. Mrs. Cnudde will take the lead.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we would like to thank you very much for the opportunity this afternoon to explain what we call the humanitarian project at Gave Veste. We are grateful that we have been able to help 278 very vulnerable Syrian refugees in recent years. They did not have to take the dangerous smuggling route in boats via the Mediterranean. We, but above all these people, are extremely grateful. We are grateful to the Belgian government that these people have been given the opportunity to escape from a hopeless and hopeless situation, where they have often looked death straight in the eye. We are here today with four people. Next to me is Sjaak van Leijenhorst, director and daily director of Gave Veste and coordinator of the humanitarian project. Next to him Jelle Rijkeboer, employee at Gave Veste. Together with Sjaak, he coordinated the humanitarian project. All the way to the end is Everhard Van Dalen, a member of the board of directors and involved in the inter-living consultation. Cool Veste vzw was founded in 2009 with the aim of mobilising and activating local churches in the work of refugees.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u49	Mr President, in 2015 we received a cry from the Syrian community. Several Syrian families were trapped in Syria and could not flee. This cry for help remained in our minds all the time. Then we heard from the media about the rescue in Aleppo. We were gladly surprised that this was possible. However, we also knew that there were many still in the same precarious situation. At the beginning of 2016 we were invited to the cabinet to reflect with a dozen representatives of various Protestant-evangelical churches, including Everhard van Dalen on behalf of VILT, on what churches could mean, as at that time the influx of refugees had risen so much. Apparently, we were known as a non-profit association working among refugees. We were invited as part of civil society. With the cry of emergency still in mind, after that discussion we put on the naughty shoes and asked if there was any possibility of discussing humanitarian visas for the most vulnerable Syrian Christian refugees. We were allowed to come back later to discuss this further in the cabinet. Some time later, early 2016, we already had a conversation in the cabinet about this and asked about humanitarian visas. In the autumn of 2015 we had already documented concrete files with heavy stories. We gave those files with heavy stories to the cabinet in spring 2016 and after several months we were allowed to have some families over. A total of 278 humanitarian visas were issued. They didn't come in one go. This was structured and dosed, divided into groups, over the years 2016, 2017 and 2018. In 2016 there were 71 people, divided into five groups. In 2017, 45 people arrived; that was one group. In 2018, 162 people arrived, divided into three groups. In 2017 and 2018, such a group was often divided into smaller groups, so that no more than eleven to seventeen people had an appointment at the embassy at the same time. How did Gave Veste get those files? Well, when we got the green light, we asked within our network for more files. We have asked at the various Protestant Arab churches if they could gather files. At first, we got 2,500 files. We've always had direct contact with the closest family members, never with intermediaries. We've put the most vulnerable people on some sort of gross list. This list has been supplemented over the years by new files that have been submitted to us, as the situation in Syria is also constantly changing. In the end, we received more than 3 000 files. From there we have made a gross list of 800 names with heavy stories. From there we have further selected and a shortlist has been drawn up. We finally put people on a list of these shortlists, who were sent to the cabinet. Now let me tell you a little bit more about our selection and screening. To get on a list, a person has to meet some criteria. We apply five criteria and we divide points by criterion. The more points, the sooner one gets on the list. There is the criterion of living in dangerous areas. These are areas where terrorists are in power, where there has been a recent struggle, where there are bombings, where there are many attacks, where there is a very high risk of kidnapping and so on. For example, there was a number of people with the shrapnel of grenades in their bodies, with scars on their bodies, with injuries from bombings and shellings, people who couldn't walk well and so on. There is a criterion concerning people who have already fled Syria, for example because their home has been destroyed or taken or that it was so dangerous that they had to move away. Once one has fled and lost everything, one is often unable to flee again. The only way out is a humanitarian visa. The third criterion concerns the presence of vulnerable persons. These are single mothers who have lost their husbands in the war and are often dependent on the Church's food aid. Think also of young women who are at risk of being kidnapped or worse, of well-known families whose lives have been horribly destroyed by one or more people or whose lives have been abducted for some time and have experienced terrible things. Vulnerable persons are also young men from families who are to be put on military service with Assad or the Kurds and as a Christian in front of the front line in order to wage a very, very dirty war. Once you're in military service, you don't just come out of the army while the conflict lasts. The only way out is death. The fourth criterion concerns medical needs. These are people who are no longer able to get the necessary medical care because the hospital is no longer there or there are no doctors who have already fled or because the road to it is dangerous. These people in Syria have violent medical needs, such as cancer, and need to be helped. For example, a number of families have passed over, a child of the family has a very serious disability and needs a lot of care. The fifth criterion concerns a poor financial situation. For people who have a lot of money, it is often still possible to escape first within Syria, but poor families are often unable to move and for them a humanitarian visa is the only way out. It is sometimes heard that most Christians in Syria would be prosperous and rich. Honesty commands that it concerns a small group of Christians in Syria before the war. Especially in cities like Raqqa, Aleppo and Idlib, that was true. A lot of people lost everything. We know a lot of stories about people who've lost everything. So we do not recognize ourselves at all in the image that the Christian community would be wealthy people. Anyway, in principle it is not possible to get wealth on our lists. We're very strict about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u50	Mr President, there is a lot of talk about technology today, but we also want to share a number of stories with you. One of the stories is that of Mrs. Lina Ajoub. She lived with her husband and two children aged 14 and five in East Ghouta. The rebels have taken over power and as Christians they were forced to leave their homes. During that trial, her husband went missing, never recovered, and was most likely killed by rebels. Afterwards she lived with her children in a miserable situation in a small room without a window, without heating and without income. She was dependent on help from the Church and also had kidney disease. The house she once lived in was probably shot to shreds. She arrived safely in Belgium in 2018 and is now building up a life in this country with her children. We'll listen to her now.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u51	Mr President, criteria are important, but they must be tested. One of the toughest tasks of the work we have done in recent years has been to select the lists. Among other things, my colleague, Mr Rijkeboer, and myself have been intensively involved in this. From the many names were thoroughly selected. Which story meets multiple criteria? You just heard the five points. The files that met at least three criteria were placed on a shortlist from the gross list. Then these stories were thoroughly screened by Gave Veste. Knock the stories. Sometimes it turned out that they were thickened. Then those people were removed from the shortlist because they did not meet the criteria. But it has also often been said that the harrowingness has been reduced out of shame and that the situation has actually turned out to be even worse. We've checked the stories in several ways. Firstly, we have asked the Belgian family members of the people on the shortlist for a check-up. We have asked critically. We have had intensive discussions with their Belgian family here in Belgium, and we have asked for photos. It was common for us to use WhatsApp, via video, to call the people involved to hear and especially to see what the situation was like there. These talks were supported by independent interpreters. By asking well, we could already find out a lot. Secondly, as members of Gave Veste, we have long had good contacts within the Christian Syrian community in Belgium. We have called for the help of some very reliable people, whom we have known personally for years. They have many contacts in Syria and have contacted the family members of the people who had applied to us. You should know that the Christian community in Syria is a very close community. From Belgium, people in Syria, for example an uncle of the family, have been asked: how is that person doing?; where does it now live, out of pure interest. Someone could have said to us, "My house is damaged." Then they checked to see if this was true. After that check it could be seen that either the windows had been broken or that the house was really bombed. Of course, this control step is not 100 % waterproof but that is not any method. However, we have experienced that it is a good method. We have received many details from the family in Syria. In the case of enquiries, it was not known that these questions were asked before the screening. So these people gave uninhibited answers. They were asked out of interest about their situation. They didn't realize the real reason. They really saw it as an interest and concern of Christians among themselves. That has given us good detail. Thirdly, we have kept a close eye on the news about Syria. If someone claimed that he or she was surrounded by IS or by al-Nusra or any other group, we didn't just accept it. Then we really went to find out if ISIS was around. Or someone talked about compulsory military service in Kurdish territory, where different ages apply to summoning the army than in an area controlled by Assad. For example, if one was the only son of the family, there was no need to fear military service in the area under Assad.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u52	Mr President, you have asked me to explain some of this. Why only Christians? In the previous hearings, Christians were asked several times why. We would also like to say something about this. Of course, we can only speak for our non-profit association, which was involved in this. We wanted to help the most vulnerable Syrian refugees, regardless of religion. At Gave Veste, however, we mainly have good and reliable contacts in Christian churches. Within these churches, we can actually control and discuss the vulnerability. The lists included Christians from various Christian movements: Eastern Orthodox, Catholics, Protestants, Armenian Apostolics, Baptists, Evangelicals, also Pentecostals. We are not closing our eyes to reality in Syria and the Middle East. Christians are a vulnerable minority there. It was not for nothing that your Parliament ever adopted a resolution to help vulnerable minorities, including Christians. We would like to help Christians from other countries, because one in nine Christians faces persecution, or more than 245 million Christians, according to a report published by Open Doors on 16 January 2019. That is a reality that we often overlook. It is worldwide, so not only in Syria, the largest group of people being prosecuted for their beliefs. I myself like to be involved in the Flemish inter-living dialogue, something set up by the government. On behalf of the Federal Synod of Protestant and Evangelical churches - there are a hundred Protestant churches and six hundred Gospel churches - I have also participated in the project of Sant'Egidio, where 150 people have come across and heard about here. The Flemish inter-living dialogue includes Roman Catholics, Protestants, Orthodox, Anglicans, but also Muslim Executive, with which we have excellent contacts, the Jewish community and the liberals. Personally and also in the Federal Synod, we are really open to broad dialogue and cooperation. For example, I myself sit in a working group on Poverty and Refugees from the Flemish inter-life dialogue. I have excellent contacts with people from the Muslim executive, but also with liberals, such as Professor Remi Baekelmans. Gave Veste has also helped the humanitarian corridor of Sant.Egidio, following the example of Catholics and Protestants who have worked together before within Sant.Egidio Italy to transfer refugees to Italy. There were a thousand of them at first. The same thing happened in France after that. I am strongly in favour of involving the various views of life more closely in asylum policy, but I am in favour of all aspects of life. Everyone, with their supporters, their own people, can best guarantee shelter and integration. That's an invitation to everyone. Everyone has a network within their own conception of life, often a strong network. Each can give the best of himself to achieve justice and peace in our country through his conviction. Let us combine the power of the various beliefs and use them positively. I believe that this is possible, and I very much hope that dialogue and cooperation with the authorities can be started soon and that we can enter into discussions on asylum. I also have a huge passion for the many people without papers. I would also like to ask you to look at the situation in Libya. Look at the camps in Greece. There's a lot to do.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u53	Mr President, how is the process going from Syria to Belgium? How does someone from Syria end up in Belgium? For some people that is indeed quite a challenge. At the Syrian-Lebanon border there may be all kinds of problems. It is unsafe to travel within Syria. We once had a family from Maharda on the list. Two days before leaving for Lebanon, they lost a uncle. He came to visit Mahardah to say goodbye. On the way back, his car was hit by a mortar, leading to four deaths. The village of Maharda was surrounded by terrorists who bombarded the village weekly. The family had to leave for Lebanon early in the morning and in the dark, hoping that the shelling would not start yet. We were aware of this problem, and that is why we asked our supporters to pray for the family. Good, because they arrived safely in Lebanon. It was for us, and especially for them, very exciting hours. In the city of Maharda, 9 Christians died in a rocket attack by terrorists on 9 September 2018. There were 30 wounded, too. During the whole process there has been a direct communication with the immediate family. We never put people on a list through intermediaries. As soon as a list was approved, we received from the cabinet a date when the people were expected at the embassy in Lebanon. Through the cabinet we also received a personal invitation from the embassy in Beirut with the date and time when the person was expected. We have forwarded this digital document to the people in Syria. Only with this invitation from the embassy and their passport could they cross the Syrian-Lebanon border. In this we have also extensively communicated to the Belgian family with clear instructions, which they passed on to their families in Syria, so that the process from Syria to Lebanon and from Lebanon to Belgium would go well. As soon as they could pick up their visa in Beirut, Gave Veste took care of the further guidance. We've arranged the following things in Lebanon. One, escort to the embassy and fill out the Schengen forms. Two, temporary lodging in Beirut for two days. Three, get all the plane tickets and transport to the airport. In Lebanon everything was arranged by the American missionaries and the Christian Life Centre. We always provide them with the right information in advance, that everything was streamlined at the embassy. I myself, Mr Rijkeboer and several colleagues were always present at Brussels Airport to meet the people from Syria and make further arrangements with their Belgian family. During the week of the asylum application we gave people more explanation about this. On the same day we also listed the needs that were there, often medical needs. We always went with them to apply for asylum at DVZ. My colleague, Mr Rijkeboer, and I then escorted them from DVZ to the asylum centres. Some of them were taken in by the Fedasil shelter network, but most recently a large part of them were taken in apartments, which were rented at the expense of the non-profit organisation. This group of private shelters is fully accompanied by Gave Veste during the asylum procedure and after recognition they are accompanied to a residence. You could almost say: with the arrival in Belgium the work for us really started. Think of following up the files, taking people private, arranging all medical matters, applying for requisitorium, but also linking the aforementioned buddies to the people. In communication with the cabinet, we have regularly been responsible for the whole process, about the arrival of Syria to Lebanon, from Lebanon to Belgium, and that everyone actually applied for asylum at DVZ. We regularly gave an update to the cabinet. So far, these Syrians have easily received their papers to build a new life in Belgium. Until now, none of them has been a negative decision of the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless. Almost everyone has been recognised as a refugee. Some people have been given subsidiary protection. Cool Veste has good contacts with the Christian minority in Syria, which means that screening via that network is going well. Cool Veste vzw has had a good collaboration with Sant'Egidio. On behalf of the Federal Synode, that organisation was one of the partners who participated in the Humanitarian Corridor project. The finances. Cool Veste is grateful that all the costs mentioned were funded by private sponsors. Thanks to churches in Belgium and the Netherlands and many Christians, we have been able to finance everything. We never wanted to keep the project a secret. However, due to an auspicious effect, we have never publicly communicated about the project. We've been dealing with a lot of e-mails and phone calls. If we had made it public, an unworkable situation would have arisen. In our constituency, we have communicated about the work. It concerns 700 individuals and more than 200 churches. The people of those grassroots groups have been a great help to us with finance, transportation, making houses available, being buddy, welcoming them in the churches and in many other practical ways. Cool Veste has paid for a large part of the costs thanks to gifts. However, we have asked the Belgian family members to contribute, if possible, to the costs. For example, EUR 350 should be paid for each adult's roll-over right for a visa. The night and transport in Lebanon also cost money. A big cost is the plane tickets. Cool Veste paid all those costs in advance. We calculated the cost per person. We have looked at what the Belgian family could reasonably contribute to the actual costs. We have asked the Belgian families how much of these really incurred costs they could possibly repay and how much they could not repay. We found that the Belgian families who could repay wanted to pay back on their own. We gave them freedom. A number of families then repaid the full amount. A number of families have repaid part of the amount. And some families haven't paid at all. The deficit was supplemented by gifts and private sponsors. Payments have always been made by the hand drawing of payment certificates drawn up in duplicate. Those payment certificates can still be seen in our offices and are included in our accounts. If we find that families really cannot share in the costs, the amount will be cancelled completely. A lot of people were taken in privately, especially in the last group last fall. Cool Veste has rented apartments for this purpose at the expense of the non-profit organisation. Energy costs and so on were paid. We also provided these refugees with living money for livelihoods and a Buzzy Pazz. Everything about this private shelter was completely free for those we have received. None of that has to be repaid, nothing at all. This is funded by private sponsors. Mr President, I will conclude. Christians in Syria were, and often still are, between hammer and image, no one is on their side. They are used and abused for the sake of others. They naturally want to stay away from the whole conflict and that makes them even more vulnerable. They're in the middle of nowhere. They're not really wanted by anyone. Christians in Syria share this fate with 245 million other Christians who face persecution worldwide. We would like to mean something to them, too. I am thinking of Christians in Pakistan, Afghanistan and Eritrea, who are very vulnerable and in grave danger. The humanitarian visa is an excellent tool for this, provided it is well used and the most vulnerable people are reached. In addition, as the previous speaker said, the most vulnerable people from countries such as Syria, Pakistan, Afghanistan and Eritrea could be given the opportunity to make the most vulnerable happen through family reunification. After all, some of these Syrians already had family in Belgium, but were not eligible for family reunification. There could be a relaxation of family reunification for certain groups with the most vulnerable refugees, to be reunited with family in Belgium. For example, in Pakistan and Afghanistan, life is extremely difficult for Christians and other minorities. I am also talking about other minorities. We would like to discuss this further with you. We thank God on behalf of the 278 Syrians we have liked and can help. We thank the Secretary of State and all the others who have contributed to the humanitarian project. We thank you for the invitation to explain the work we have been able to do in recent years. We are always willing to think together with you about a way to improve workings like this. The humanitarian situation in Syria is still very dramatic, is very bad, as you can read in the Unicef report which appeared on 31 January. Like Mr Jan De Volder of Sant'Egidio in his previous hearing, we also express the hope that this humanitarian project can continue. We still have a lot of names on our shortlist, people who are very vulnerable and all meet those criteria. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u54	I give the floor to Mr Vergili of the European Syriac Union.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u55	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I will introduce myself very briefly because the debate has already taken a long time. I'm Tony Vergili. I've been in Belgium for 20 years. I have often been active in Syriac cultural centres in Belgium. In 2004, we created the European Syriac Union, of which I have been co-chair for a year and a half. Our organisation offers activities in all European countries (Netherlands, Germany, Sweden, Switzerland), cultural and social activities for our people. We are trying to help them there by making us the voice of our people in the East. We have given dozens of lectures to the European Parliament on the subject of Christians in the East, Iraq, Syria, Turkey and Lebanon. We work with Syriac associations in Syria and Iraq. I would now like to talk about these associations in Syria. It was they who told us that the office of the Belgian State Asylum Office easily gave humanitarian visas to Christians in the East currently in Syria. They told us that if this continued, there would be no Christians from the East in Syria. For us, that fact was dangerous. They asked us to do something here in Belgium to leave Christians in their country. Unfortunately, we could not do much. We know this problem of humanitarian visas. It has been eight years since the beginning of the war in the East that in the countries of Europe there is a kind of humanitarian visa. That is why, on 11 October 2018, we sent a letter to the European Parliament, because we have a lot of European parliamentarians in Parliament. We know them very well. We have written to the European Parliament and to the Belgian parliamentarians in the European Parliament to do something about these humanitarian visas. We are not against humanitarianism, but we are against emptying the East of Christians. That is why we have sent this letter, but unfortunately no one has answered us. I think it was after the arrest of Melikan Kucam, after a few days – I don't remember the date, I think it was January 17, or January 16, – that this letter was distributed to Belgian parliamentarians. From there, everything broke out towards us, the media, etc. We, what we did, was a simple letter that we sent to the European Parliament and to the Belgian parliamentarians who are in the European Parliament. As I said, no one answered that letter. Why did we send this letter? First of all, we, the European Syriac Union, with the associations that are in the East, as everyone has talked about the dangers, we know that Christians have suffered a lot, not just with Daesh. Christians have suffered greatly in the East for hundreds of years. The problem of Eastern Christians is not a humanitarian problem. We are not against humanitarianism. I, too, went to Syria and Iraq in 2015. We tried to help them stay there. We are against the systematic sending of our people from the East. Secondly, these people have had a lot of difficulty and poverty for eight years. We said: if it is a humanitarian visa, then why do these people pay money? We don't know if they paid or didn't, but we sent that letter for an investigation. Thirdly, we cannot tolerate such deceptions on the part of the Belgian State. As I have already said, I have been here for twenty years, I have Belgian nationality, I live here and could not accept that. I just want to tell you that if there are no more Christians in the East it will not only be bad for them, but for all the people there. For the wealth of Christians is a wealth for everyone in the East. Without Christians in the East, it will be the catastrophe for the whole world because it will crystallize two blocks: a Muslim East and a Christian West. That is why Christians in the East must remain there. Today we want the Belgian state and all the European states to help us there. Our problem is not humanitarian. It's a status and identity issue. Christians must be protected there.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u56	Thank you for the explanation. Who's got questions?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u57	I would like to thank all the speakers for the explanatory statement. I have a few questions for Mr Vergili about the letter his association sent to a number of Members of the European Parliament on 11 October last year. In die brief schrijft u, ik citeer: "We know 6 persons from Belgium which are behind this transportation. They take for their service 3 000 euros/14 000 euros from the Syrian Christians." So in that letter you say that there are six people from Belgium who seem to be cooperating in this fraud, this self-enrichment. Who are these six people? That's my first question. My second question. In the letter you say that one of these people is working with a Member of the Belgian Parliament and that you know who this is about. My question, of course, is who it is. Which Member of the Belgian Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u58	Mr President, I would also like to thank the speakers, all of them. I am actually sorry that Mr Van Overmeire is no longer here to listen to your methods. It is by the book, as it should be, within a certain legal framework. I also fully endorse Mr Van Dalen's appeal. For the sake of clarity, we have often asked questions about this with various Members of Parliament. Think of the situation in the Greek camps, for example. I've been there myself. As a result, we have put forward proposals to the Secretary of State. We have actually seen that the Aleppo rescue operation has even reduced the quota promised to Europe and has been compensated by that action in Aleppo. We wanted to make that negotiable. Some of us also want a legal framework to establish that social groups, whether religious or not, who want to take responsibility for very vulnerable groups can do the same. That is, of course, checked for quality. It also looks at the follow-up and integration of the transferred people. That is what quotas can be agreed for, because that is what people are very afraid of. Because people are afraid of it, it is not discussed. If it is not discussed, there will be no framework. Then one gets the outbursts that have been there. There are groups that have done well, there are groups that have not done well. If we do not deal with this in a proper administrative way, then of course we will get the results. In any case, I would like to congratulate you on your way of working. For the sake of clarity, I would like to ask you again whether you have drawn up these criteria at the request of Secretary of State Francken. Did you do that on your own initiative? Criteria are criteria, and one has to find balance between them and assess them. How do you deal with that? That is not always obvious, not even human.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u59	I would also like to thank all the speakers. I just had a few questions for Mr. Vergili. In his letter of 11 October, he does mention the sentence read by my colleague De Vriendt. I wish I knew under what circumstances he had learned these rumors of payments. Who told him about it? How did this information reach him? What kind of person was that about? Were they still people in Syria or Belgium? How did things go with that information he gave the alert? This alert was obviously not heard at that time. Did he also know Melikan Kucam? Did he know that this character was involved in that story? Was he aware of the links between the latter and Theo Francken?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u60	Is anyone else asking for the floor? [[No.]] I shall then give the floor to those who feel the need to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u61	Mr President, I respect the judicial procedure. After our letter was circulated, I received a summons from the police. I gave the names of the six people to the police. I respect justice. I won't give you those names. I gave them to the police. There's a trial. Besides, in the letter, it was a mistake on our part. Normally, he wasn't a parliamentarian. It was the Asile's office. It was a mistake. To answer Mr Dallemagne's question, as I said, we are working with associations in Syria. As families wanted to come, it was surely they who gave the information there in Syria, to Derik. We have been informed by our association in Syria.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u62	Mrs De Coninck, you asked us if it was just the vulnerable people. We have said for ourselves that we only wanted to bring the most vulnerable people here. We have therefore defined this in the way that has just been explained. In the initial phase we forwarded the files to the cabinet and later the project plan. After all, the story we have told today was in a project plan with which we have worked and which was also seen by our supporters, in particular the general meeting and the board of directors. During the follow-up to the project, we have once again shared the criteria with the cabinet and explained how we were working. We considered it important to bring only the most vulnerable people here because we share the concern that the other speaker has. Nor do we want Christians to leave the Middle East. Perhaps that is why I would like to return the question to the committee: what can we do to ensure that Christians in the Middle East can actually have a good, safe and sustainable life? Maybe we should not think in a secular way, I would almost say, equalize everyone, but we should also look at how we, for the Christians in Syria and in particular the very vulnerable people underneath, can support an organization like Syriac Aid, who works on the ground. That would be a call to you, because we share that concern. We do not want to empty the community in Syria and that is why we have brought only the most vulnerable people here, no predecessors, no pastors, no shepherds of the church. However, they were often people who had no future in Syria, who probably hadn't been there now or had lived in a very difficult situation, who................................................................................................................................................................... So it was a relief that the church was somewhat relieved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u63	Mr President, allow me to respond to Mrs De Coninck's remarks. I'm glad you're coming with us. I volunteer, I'm not on duty. I have seen the injustice that is taking place, for example on the Greek islands. Today I read again that people washed up in Lesbos. Thousands of people drown in the Mediterranean. That's an incredible injustice, it's inhumane. I believe that a parliament has a responsibility to do something about this. Everyone is a society, not only Christians, but also liberals and Muslims. In Belgium, too, a huge number of foreigners have arrived, as in many European countries. People were welcomed and welcomed. Sometimes there are people on the streets, without papers, but also without means of return. This must be discussed in a quiet dialogue, although I am not always calm myself. I think it is a challenge for each of us to reach a consensus, regardless of the different visions. As an example, I mention the recognition of the worship services, where there are questions about mosques or about the ritual slaughter. There are a lot of themes. I do not expect merely political caricature from the round tables, but rather a conversation whose content comes to the aid of the people. That's my suggestion. The dialogue, across all political parties and with the people who are willing to do so, seems to me to be the only way forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u64	To add a clarification, I think dialogue is important, but it is also extremely important to do business together. That is one of the reasons why I also said to the previous speaker, Karim Van Overmeire, that everyone must be given respectful space to live their faith. That means that if we could organize this properly here, we could be an example for countries in the Middle East, countries where there is war. In this way we can show that peaceful coexistence is possible for persons of different religions and beliefs, including atheism. The comment is therefore not so non-binding. If we want sustainable solutions, then we must enter into discussion, free from thinking of power. I know that's fairly idealistic, but I'm afraid there's no other way. In Parliament, and certainly in our committee, there have been many discussions about this. Parliament has a responsibility, but also the opposition and the majority and the government and the Secretary of State have a very heavy responsibility.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u65	I would like to say that this philosophical dialogue is not only conducted between Christians, but also with Muslims, Jews and liberals. Honestly, there is consensus there. People discuss things there, but the most important thing is that they do things together. Doing this together means not acting in enmity but reaching out to each other over the differences and focusing on what is unacceptable or what is unjust. I am glad that I read this morning that Portugal has a thousand people coming from Greece. I'm so happy about that. There are so many runaways here who lack evidence and live here on the street. They are people who come from countries where, when they go back to them, they often have to suffer repercussions. This is something for which we must have the courage to look each other in the eye and achieve results as a society together.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-12-54-commissie-ic1050x.u66	I would like to thank everyone for being here and, above all, for waiting for the floor to be heard.
