ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1052x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, at last week's meeting with the Minister and Mr Wittoeck, we did not get to the question round. In the meantime, questions have been raised by a number of political groups. They can serve as preparation for the meeting that we still have to organise. One possibility is 26 March in the morning. With your approval, I'd like to record that moment. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No, no, ……]] Then we will organise it in that way. We then come to the subject of this sitting, a hearing with Mr Delbeke, Mr Van Nuffel and Mr van Ypersele. Mr van Ypersele has stated that he can only be present from 11 a.m. So we start with those who are present, whom I warmly welcome in our committee, to inspire us with their story. We can work on it afterwards. The speakers will give an introductory statement. Afterwards, members have the opportunity to ask questions. Mr Delbeke has the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1052x.u2	Thank you, Mr President, for the invitation. What is being discussed today is entirely in line with what we are trying to do in the European Commission. Not only have we aligned our legislation by 2030, but we have also launched a reflection on a climate-neutral Europe by 2050. This will, of course, be the subject of more policy discussions with the Heads of State or Government in particular. We hope that we have been able to outline a long-term framework for this, which seems more and more inevitable. Before I go into that, however, I would like to stress that I think Professor of Ypersele will do so in detail, and that there is a strong scientific consensus that there is a climate change and that she will influence us all. We do not see that in the weather alone; if we look at the North, a region that is a little underexposed, then we see that summer ice has been frighteningly disappearing since the year 2000. We haven't seen that in centuries.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1052x.u3	You'll say, "Who cares?" What is the importance of the Arctic? I'll show you a picture of the summer ice disappeared between 1984 and 2012 and give you the whole story. You can see red dots in the surrounding countries, particularly Russia, Canada, the United States, Greenland, Denmark and Norway, which represent new coal and ore mining operations. You can also see red lines, which represent new navigation routes. This means that the Arctic region, which has been frozen and unfingable for centuries, has now become an invincible region. There are two consequences. If you look closely, you'll see blue stars pop up everywhere. These are new military bases that indicate that this is going to be a strategically important region, because there are huge territorial claims. No one knows who owns the North Pole. In the middle of the North Pole you will see all kinds of colored zones, where both Russia, Canada, America and the European countries claim part of the North Pole. They have been so wise to put that on, to freeze the debate, but as the ice disappears and the exploitation and economic pressure increase, we in Europe will have to look not only at what is going on geopolitically in the South, in the Mediterranean, in the East, but also in the North. That is to stress that climate change is much more than an environmental problem. It is also a geopolitical problem, apart from all the consequences we can expect in terms of biodiversity, social impact and so on. However, in Europe we were very early on with global governance. We have adopted, ratified and implemented the Kyoto Protocol. Now there is the Paris Agreement. What was the problem with the Kyoto Protocol? You can see that on this graph. At a glance you will see a curve going up from the year 2000. That is a country's emissions, China. China stands for emerging industrialised countries. What this graph makes clear is that the difference around which multilateral negotiations are taking place developed vis-à-vis developing countries needs to be reviewed and certainly from the year 2000. We know in our new century that the difference between developed and developing countries is actually completely veiled. After all, there is an important group of emerging industrialised countries. These emerging industrialised countries today emit most greenhouse gases. It was therefore necessary to extend the Kyoto Protocol to include emerging industrialised countries. That is what we have achieved in the Paris Agreement. For this reason, the Paris Agreement has not only a very important objective, i.e. maximum 2°C and, if possible, only 1.5°C. The most important thing is that we have universal participation and the whole world can and must participate. To put it bluntly, without China and emerging industrialised countries, we will not be able to control the climate problem. We know there are a number of problems. We know that President Trump has seriously questioned the Paris agreement. The good news is that we are exerting a lot of diplomatic pressure in Europe to keep it with Mr Trump. When President Bolsonaro was elected in Brazil and made a lot of critical remarks about climate change, we made it very clear in our bilateral trade talks that, if Brazil sees Europe as an important trading partner, it is particularly important that the Paris Agreement be implemented. There are also trade talks with Canada, Japan, Australia and New Zealand. The main thing is that respect for the Paris Agreement is essential for our further trade with those countries. The Paris Agreement and universal participation, I cannot stress it enough. We know that the Paris Agreement is not enough. We need to get below 2 °C at least. This graph shows that if we didn't do anything, by 2050 we would reach the red line from 4 to 5 °C more. But with the Paris Agreement we land in the middle. Those are the two blue lines, the dark blue ones and the light blue ones, the optimists and the pessimists. Are we going to land at 2.8 °C or 3.2 °C with the Paris Agreement? That's all a little bit of a cup of coffee. The most important thing is that the Paris Agreement, as it stands now, is not enough to enroll us in the long-term objective. We will therefore have to step up our efforts and the debate we are having today in Belgium must be conducted in this context. We already have a policy, but it is clearly not enough, not enough for us and not for the rest of the world. You will ask what we have done so far in Europe. This graph is an official graph of the European Environment Agency and summarises it very well. The first year of climate policy is 1990. In fact, we can say that not much has happened between 1990 and 2005. We see a slight reduction, especially in Eastern Europe, when they joined, in energy efficiency. Let us say that we have reduced our emissions by 0.5% a year. But between 2005 and 2017, we increased that 0.5 % per year to 1.5 %, due to the policy. I will explain to you later what that policy means. We said that by 2020 we would achieve 20% compared to 1990. Today we are at -22 %. We are doing a little better today, in 2019, compared to what we had said to do before 2020. However, if we continue this towards 2030, the Heads of State or Government in Europe have decided unanimously that by 2030 we will have to reduce our emissions by at least 40% compared to 1990. What does that graph indicate? That is the top line: if we do not strengthen our policy, we will not be able to deliver it 40 %. So the red line you see, going from 2019 to 2030, is the line we need to follow. That's about 2% reduction per year. If we want to be climate neutral in Europe after 2030, we will have to double that 2%. So there is still a very big task after 2030. That is why it is very important that a great deal of research and development efforts are made in our companies and that innovations are made so that we can produce steel, cement and chemical products in a way that brings little emissions. So there is work to be done now so that we can roll it out to 2050 after 2030. To make a long story short, we are already on our way to reducing emissions in Europe. That is good, we are learning the trick, but it is not enough to meet the 2030 targets and certainly not enough to meet the 2050 targets. And so we will have to rethink our policy. Where did we achieve this huge reduction in emissions? Let us take a look at the following table in relation to Europe. This is already official statistics from Eurostat. The largest emissions are natural energy, fossil fuels. If we give 1990 factor 100, we see that in 2017 energy production emissions were reduced to factor 68. So that's 32 percent less. Even in industry today we have factor 57, which is 43% less. The energy and industrial sectors have clearly already made a great effort. Where's it not going well? You will find that two lines further. With regard to transport, today we are 20% higher than in 1990. If you look at the bottom line, you will see what stands out in the field of transport, namely international aviation. Today we have a factor 217, more than twice as high, compared to 1990. Where's the shoe mostly pinching? We must continue in the energy sector, we must continue in the industrial sector, but transport is very topical, including aviation and the maritime sector. These are sectors that we will have to tackle, otherwise we will not be able to achieve our objectives. What is good in Europe? I'll show you this graph. We have been able to show the Chinese and emerging industrialised countries that what we have done in Europe has not been at the expense of people's prosperity, not at the expense of our gross national product. This has increased by 53% over the period we are talking about from 1990 to 2017, while our emissions have fallen by 22%. This is not only important for those who are concerned about the future of our economic growth. The question is not whether there is economic growth. The question is: what is the quality of economic growth? What type of sectors are we developing? This is a very important issue that has aroused the attention of the Chinese in Paris and of all emerging industrialised countries. We've got them on board. Climate policy does not kill economic policy. The question is what economic policy is being pursued. Where are we in Belgium? I have included Belgium's official statistics, which have been submitted to Eurostat. In Belgium, we are doing a little less good than the European average. If we were to make a ranking of the Member States, we would be in the lowest quarter. We're in the quarter of the least good students. The trends in Europe are shown in the second part of the graph. It is mainly in the energy sector that we are seeing a significant decline. There is also a significant decline in industry, but transport continues to rise, in particular international aviation. I'll split the slides. If I speak too quickly to write it down, this is all official information. You can compare all Member States with such a standardised sheet. How have we done in Europe? European emissions trading actually means putting a price on CO2 for large installations, for the energy sector and for large industries. We have about 11 000 such installations in Europe. They reduced their emissions by 26% between 2005 and 2017. This is a significant result, more than 2 % per year. The secret is that there's a price for CO2. That means paying for it if one wants to eject a lot. Some would call that a tax. It is not quite a tax, because our industries, which mainly export, get a whole piece of the allowances for free. However, it is important that there is an economic initiative. The price is between 20 and 25 euros. So all our big companies know that when they eject, they will have to pay a price for it and it is expected that this price will increase. This applies to the productive sector, energy and industry. The second is the small consumers, and that is what we need to focus on now. The small outbursts of energy are you and me, the households, the transport users, the farmers and the SMEs. They are covered by the system of targets and targets allocated to the 28 Member States of the European Union. This includes Great Britain, with which there are parallel talks. We will see after the Brexit, but everything points out that the British will keep their targets, which will have a brexit minimal impact on the climate. With Europe, we have ensured that the objectives for the Member States are differentiated. The richer one is, the more one has to do. We need to differentiate. The cheapest way is to close a number of Member States, for example Romania, Bulgaria and Poland, but that cannot be the intention and we want to share our prosperity fairly. Small consumers are therefore the subject of targets agreed by Member States. The objective is that there is a variation between zero and 40%. The richest Member States, Luxembourg and Sweden, should reduce 40%. The poorest Member States, Romania and Bulgaria, should reduce least. Belgium is at 35% reduction between 2005 and 2030. There is a slide missing from the presentation, but on the chart you would see a differentiation between Member States. Our neighbouring countries are doing about the same thing. All Member States in North-West Europe do between 35% and 40%. For example, for Germany, France and Great Britain it is 38 %, for the Netherlands 36 % and for our country 35 %. Let us study this in the light of what we must do and where we stand with Belgium today. I refer to official Eurostat figures. Today, by which I mean 2017 figures, we are about even, which means we don't have a big deficit. However, if we look at the policies planned, the deficit between today's latest official figures date from 2017 to 2020. The intermediate figures for 2018 and 2019 show that we need to reach ‐15 % by 2020, but we are expected to achieve ‐12 % in the best case scenario. It looks even more disastrous before 2030. That is where we need to achieve 35%, with efforts being divided across Europe. Without a change of policy, we will only reach just 14 percent. That is a deficit of 21 %. This sums up the challenge we face. Not only is there the call that resounds with young people and in the street, but there is an objective that needs to be met. There is European solidarity, but there are also European checks-and-balances to check whether or not this reduction in emissions is delivered. For 2020, we have the small individuality of the Kyoto credits. That's a jar we've been saving up, a spare that we can use. This is somewhat controversial, hence the differences of opinion. Will we remain legally within the targets by 2020 or not? This has to do with a number of issues agreed in Kyoto, but emissions have not been reduced in themselves. The credits of the Clean Development Mechanism are a past game that can be used, in itself a rather controversial element of the Kyoto Protocol. There is no doubt that without a changed policy, we will not be able to reduce our emissions by 2020, as we promised, and certainly not by 2030. So there's some work to be done. The third measure in Europe, to which I would like to draw your attention, after the ETS and the targets divided by Member State, is renewable energy. There too, we have divided efforts. Belgium must deliver 13 %. According to the latest statistics, Belgium delivers 8.65 %. Efforts are being made and we hope that we will achieve the percentage by 2020, but it will be short notice. It is going in the right direction, in the sense that we are generating a considerable amount of renewable energy in Belgium, as in Europe, and that is an absolute success. When we developed this policy, no one believed that we would achieve 20% by 2020 and we are well on our way to achieving it. Belgium is unlikely to achieve this, but there are other countries that are doing much better than the targets they had set. As a result, Europe will reach 20%. The Heads of State or Government have decided that Europe must deliver at least 32% by 2030. The legislation is in place. If we deliver 20% by 2020, it will be a success if we see where we come from, but we have to go to 32%. You can see there's a nod up in the curve. Maintaining the policy will not be enough. We're gonna have to speed up. However, there is also good news in the renewable energy sector, as you and I know, especially in the case of wind and solar energy, which has fallen by 80% and more since 2010. The curve shows that the more investment is made in renewable energy, the faster the cost reduction is realised. These cost reductions are linked to the digitisation of the energy sector and the development of batteries, which have an analogous cost reduction. So there is also good news in the field of renewable energy. The policy of the past has reduced the cost of renewable energy, so we can now do much more for the future. Ten years ago, solar energy was the most expensive energy. It is expected to become the cheapest energy source within ten years. These are spectacular shifts that have been put in place by policy. We can look at the policy of the past and see that we still have a number of things to pay off, but if we look ahead we have developed a good starting point. A fourth important measure, which will be discussed in Belgium just before or just after the elections, is that we in Europe are going for a flexible electricity market. We have laid a lot of cables and pipelines in Europe. This means that each Member State, if a deficit appears, can buy fairly flexibly from its neighbour. If the sun doesn't shine on you, she might shine elsewhere. If the wind doesn't blow on you, then maybe someplace else. That flexibility is therefore very important. Regional cooperation, which is embedded in our new European directives on the electricity market, is absolutely important for Belgium, which is at the centre of Europe. Remember that we now have a huge cable to Great Britain worth a large electrical installation. That will bring us a lot of benefits. Finally, in the European Union, we are champions of energy efficiency. Our utensils like refrigerators, freezers and TVs are very energy efficient, but we are also doing well in industry. Energy is constantly being saved. We must continue to work on this. Our Flemish and Belgian companies are very active in this area. To sum up, in just twenty years' time in Europe, we will have a huge shift in coal production, which will remain in Poland, Romania and Bulgaria, but will go all the way towards renewable energy. It grows very fast. For Belgium, the discussion is about gas or nuclear, but I will not go into that here. However, the important trend is clear: CO2-intensive energy sources are coming out. Renewable energy will account for the vast majority of energy generation in the 2030 perspective. In 2030, more than 1 kWh out of 2 in Europe will be renewable. That's a very significant change. I come to the conclusions, which may also apply to Belgium. Firstly, we now have nearly two decades of experience in the European Union with climate policy. We need to get all the noses in the same direction. It worked in Paris, with the emerging industrialized countries. We have done the same in Europe. The Heads of State or Government have indeed taken significant decisions, but we must also do so in Belgium. Flemish, Brussels and Walloon policies must go in the same direction. Secondly, we must advocate gradual imports, but we must constantly adjust and strengthen them. Where we are doing well, we still need to step up our efforts. For example, we have learned this through the ETS and emissions trading in Europe. In the beginning there were a few flaws, but they are now completely out. The system is now very performant. Thirdly, we must involve everyone in policy, including the more problematic sectors. It is a public secret that we in Europe had a very intensive debate with Poland, which still uses very much coal in its energy mix. We must also get them to table and offer them an alternative. That's what we did. We are funding Poland hugely to bring about the energy change and it works. The construction of renewable energy is also running very fast in Poland, a message that has been somewhat snowed down when reading the newspapers. A price on CO2 drives efficiency. We have seen this through the ETS, the emissions trading market, but that can also apply to consumers such as you and I. An emission trading market for consumers like you and I is not entirely obvious, but a CO2 tax or a CO2 energy tax must certainly be analysed, taking into account the distribution effects and social effects. We need to study where we might be able to apply tax shifts. An important part of the revenue from the emissions trading market goes to innovation in companies. We have created an innovation fund that currently contains EUR 10 billion, which is available to companies that market low CO2 production methods. The management of this innovation can therefore also be financed by the proceeds of either the emissions trading or a CO2 tax. Finally, in the long term, innovation is at the heart of our companies. I have emphasised the importance of renewable energy, energy efficiency and low CO2 emissions in steel and cement production. We must also give new products, such as hydrogen, carbon capture and storage and biochemistry, a chance, because they can offer a special opportunity to bring CO2 down and yet not to compromise our prosperity and employment. So far, Mr President, I shall confine my remarks. I believe that these conclusions, after one to two decades of European energy policy of falling and rising, cannot always be easily taken into account for further policy in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1052x.u4	Thanks. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we now put the questions to Mr Delbeke before we proceed to the next presentation. (Instemming).
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1052x.u5	Mr President, Mr Delbeke, thank you. I think that, for the sake of the debate, it is better to separate the issues and the contributions from each other. Mr. Delbeke is one of the biggest connoisseurs on the case. He always manages to put before us the real stakes, including those listed in the short term. His contribution is interesting to see where we are and to show where the emergency is. I will repeat what you said, Mr Delbeke, saying that the risk is not to kill the economy, but simply not to answer the question of which economy we want. That is what is at stake. The answer is obvious, as far as we are concerned. The way in which you put the debate is fundamental and should allow us a broad consensus. I would like to speak to colleagues who are absent and who will read the report. It is easy to have closed speeches and not to attend hearings that bring elements that nourish reflection. I come to my questions. Mr Delbeke, you are one of the biggest – if not the biggest – connoisseurs of European mechanisms and European negotiations in this field. Given your broad experience, what is the interest in some countries taking national acceleration initiatives – since you are clearly advocating? It could be said that this should only happen at European level. But I am referring, for example, to what is happening in the Netherlands and what could happen in Belgium. You say that if we look at things objectively, we cannot say that nothing has been done on the industry side. Developments have taken place. Of course, the relocation takes place in part. But in view of the urgency and the existing arrangements, do you consider that there should be a differentiated reflection between industries covered by the ETS system and those not covered by it? In this way, accelerating national policies would not risk disrupting what is happening at European level. I would like to have your light on this, because we have already heard such remarks in other hearings last week. Perhaps that would help to find a solution. Mr. Van Quickenborne is here, and it is a good thing, because it is also with him that we will have to be able to discuss this element when the time comes. The next question I discuss with the Planning Office every year when they come to present alternative and complementary indicators to GDP. We have an increasingly developed greenhouse gas indicator. But the only figures released by the Plan Bureau in Belgium are the greenhouse gas emissions on Belgian territory. What is the point, today, of looking at CO2, greenhouse gases, on the basis of emissions alone, if at the same time we relocate employment but import production? We then consume more CO2 in total here, at home, than before the relocation. I do not see how we can do this without the publication of these statistics. At European level, are you aware of statistics that contribute to public debate, either at pan-European level or in some countries? In this way, the two columns would be put on the table, in a transparent way, and in a way that is not sound from a scientific point of view, namely CO2 produced on the territory and CO2 consumed on the territory. I am aware of the situation in France, where ADEME regularly makes surveys on this subject; in Britain too. But perhaps you have information about other countries too? This would allow us to deconstruct the Plan Office, which, each year, comes back to us with the latest statistics on this subject from 2007, which does not make much sense. We sometimes gargle ourselves with global reductions in our CO2 emissions, especially because there has been a relocation of the steel industry, but if in the end we lose jobs but we consume more CO2, that makes no sense. It is better to have an overview and see how, overall, one decreases. My question is whether things exist elsewhere as well and whether we could quickly change things in Belgium.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1052x.u6	Mr President, I would like to thank the speaker for his speech. It is always enlightening to see evolution and, above all, to wake us up once again that much has indeed happened, but that we are still faced with an immense task. I have three small questions, one of which might be a little bigger. In your conclusions, you say that it is very important to go all the way in the same direction: Europe, but also Belgium as a small country with its very complicated state structure. This also makes it very complicated to coordinate policy plans. My question is whether the national energy and climate plan puts the noses sufficiently in the same direction. What will Europe say about this plan? We know that it has been said very often in the past that it was cutting and sticking between the different regions and the federal government, without any clear policy. Is this the case with this new plan? Can you say anything more about that? It's a question of numbers. At some point you have shown the graphs on what we should do and how far we need to go down in order to achieve our goals. Unless I am mistaken, we are not going to see climate neutrality by 2050. So we really need to go a lot further. Do you have any figures on that? I've come to reduce emissions. At some point you showed that we were in Belgium at ‐10 % in 2017. The website of the FOD says that we are at ‐12 %. Do you have any idea how to explain this difference? Maybe we should ask Mrs Marghem. Thank you very much, once again, for the presentation and the answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1052x.u7	Mr President, I too would like to thank Mr Delbeke for his brilliant presentation which calls for some clarification or questions. Several Member States are calling for an upward revision of the emission reduction target from at least 40% to 55% by 2030. It is also a position that was adopted by our House in the vote on the resolution. Mr Delbeke, do you think that the balance of forces between Member States will make it possible to question the objectives decided by the European Council in October 2014? In addition, in which sectors do we have the greatest reduction potential by 2030? With this answer, one can obviously act in a meaningful way on the results to be achieved. In addition, what reform of the ETS system do you think is necessary to speed up CO2 reductions in European industry? We have talked about it quite often in this House and we do not have the same visions or answers to them. As you said, Belgium will not be able to meet its 2020 targets. Perhaps it would be interesting to remind us, Mr Delbeke, of the sanctions provided for in European legislation for Member States that do not respect their objectives. In fact, we often talk about money or expensive measures, but if in addition there are sanctions that also have a cost, that must be considered. Finally, it is often said that the ecological transition will create socio-economic well-being. You have also indicated, Mr Delbeke, that this has been confirmed by the figures of recent years. However, if the ecological transition automatically created widespread well-being, nobody would oppose it, I think. However, we see lobbies brake the four irons. This shows that in the medium term, I believe there will be winners and losers. How do we then help the polluting sectors to convert? I am thinking in particular of the heavy industry workers you have also mentioned.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1052x.u8	Mr Delbeke, I do not want to create polemics, but you said that perhaps Europe could give lessons to China and the emerging countries in order to explain to them how Europe is doing it. I wonder whether Europe and Belgium, in particular, really have lessons to teach them. It is true that China, according to the graph, has a real quantitative emission problem. If we report this amount to the number of inhabitants, it takes a completely different look even if the problem remains the same. In my opinion, interesting things are happening in China. Long-distance train transport works fairly well in China. We could draw inspiration from it. It seems to me that we could be more concerned about what is happening at home and in the European Union rather than giving lessons to others. It would be nice to have a little humility in this area. The question I just wanted to ask you is why Belgium cannot do this! At the end of your presentation, this is the first question that arises. You show us that in transport and aviation, both in Belgium and in the rest of Europe, emissions are increasing. You explain to us that overall, excluding ETS, Belgium is facing a big problem for 2020 and even worse in 2030 if a decrease of only 14% is achieved. As far as renewable energy is concerned, you tell us that Belgium is on the right track, but it is still below other European countries. Moreover, the fact that we are extending nuclear power demonstrates that Belgium has not found the solution in terms of renewable energy. Speaking of which, you don't want to expand. Nuclear energy is a question. You say that energy efficiency is progressing well in Belgium. Let us take the example of the isolation of private housing: I have before me a statistic reflecting the fact that Belgium is 77% above the European average in terms of energy consumption. It seems to me that the results are negative for Europe but even more so for Belgium. Is not the question of how to explain this? Is it due to the institutional problems that the climate law is trying to solve? Are there any forces that severely impede progress in this area? Have we relied too much on the market to find solutions, making the state undirective in these matters? A lot of leads can be explored. I'd like to hear your opinion on that. On the subject of the ETS system, you tell us that he has suffered a few small diseases of youth, but that everything has then returned to order and that, from now on, it is working. Do you think that this system works well enough in relation to the objectives? It seems to me that we are witnessing an annual decrease of about 2% in emissions. Will the curve achieve our objectives? I have the impression that this is a rather modest development. At the PTB, we consider that we have relied too much on the market – as was the case with renewable energy as a result of the law on the exit of nuclear energy, which has not led to anything. Should we not instead need binding standards, favouring a much greater reduction in emissions, of the order of 8 or 10 per cent per year? Secondly, do you not think that public investment, instead of encouraging the use of company cars, should be redirected to public transport, with a view to extending supply and reducing prices? You told us that climate policy did not kill economic policy. I was glad to hear you say it. That said, the MR group – which is absent today – insisted here that we hear the FEB about the climate law. We then found that the FEB – which represents the large companies based in Belgium – was a major obstacle in this area. Clearly, on the employers' side, climate policy is seen as a threat to profits and competitiveness. In my opinion, this is a short-term view. So how would you respond to the concerns expressed by the FEB about an ambitious climate policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1052x.u9	Thank you very much, Mr Delbeke. What I particularly appreciate is that we know of your voluntarism and positivism. You mentioned, among other things, the efforts already made by Europe in the energy sector. Industry, businesses and multinationals have also done a great deal. We are also champions of energy efficiency in Europe. You also said that growth is compatible with good climate awareness. These are positive messages that we embrace and appreciate. You have also addressed the challenges facing Belgium. I'm not going to talk about Europe right now. In 2017, you said we were solid. If we continue the policy and do not change anything, we will have a deficit of 3% by 2020. We should have 15% less emissions and we only get 12% less emissions. By 2030, the target is 35% less emissions and we only get 14%. That's a 21 percent deficit. That concerns me as much as you do. We're gonna have to do more to get those targets. The question then arises as to how this is done. Are there similar European countries where we can get inspiration? I would like to mention two measures which, in your view, can have some effect. There is a lot of enthusiasm among various political parties in our country to charge 6% VAT on the demolition and new construction of houses instead of 21% in order to encourage people to opt for new construction in an affordable way. Do you think that's a sensible measure or not? Our party also has a proposal regarding commercial vehicles. You are undoubtedly aware of that debate. We call for much stricter standards and for 100 percent of emissions-free commercial vehicles over a number of years. Do you think that's a measure that we can use to achieve, among other things, the target? A number of colleagues advocate a sensitive increase in our country's emissions reduction targets from 35% to 55%. That is very ambitious. Is that feasible at all, knowing that we have built up a certain tradition in our country? We are setting targets that we will never achieve. I refer, among other things, to nuclear power stations. My party is expressly in favour of abandoning nuclear energy by 2025. However, that will not be easy. It'll be very difficult. We all know that. It is better to implement feasible objectives radically than to implement radical targets halfway. It would be better to do what we have agreed instead of making the agreements more and more difficult. If we were to do what we have to do in Belgium, we would already get far. What is your assessment of the increase in targets from 35% to 55%? My final question concerns the CO2 tax. You have shown that a CO2 tax on large industrial plants has indeed had an effect: 26% less emissions are quite impressive. You are in favour of introducing this levy, if necessary, for small users or consumers, with social corrections. That's an interesting plea. As you know, France has tried to do so, but it has failed to do so. This possibility was also suggested in Australia, but it turned out to be not so easy. Users of fuel oil, for example, would see the bill to heat the house greatly increase. Do you have a workable model in which ecological and social can be reconciled? I do believe, however, that price incentives - I am not for nothing a liberal person who can encourage people to behave in a certain way or change a certain behaviour. Can you explain this a little more, if possible in the Belgian context?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1052x.u10	Thank you, Mr Delbeke, for taking stock of the situation. I think it is very useful, in debates like this, to place not only Europe in the international framework but also Belgium in the European and international framework, to see where further progress can be made and, above all, which direction we should take. The direction we must take is, as far as I am concerned, to continue on the path of renewable energy. Then we are directly in the big debate that we have been having in this Parliament for a while during this legislative period, quid our nuclear power stations. I have a question for you in this regard: can you give an indication, in the light of the figures before you, of the extent to which the extension of nuclear power stations or the further opening up of nuclear power stations has an impact on the release of the renewable energy market? If we want to achieve the objective as projected, it is ultimately a matter of political will, to what extent is the energy situation in Belgium, as it exists today on the market, a barrier to the further development of renewable energy? Or are there other ways to speed things up? As far as the higher targets are concerned, I agree with the honourable Member's question, with the difference, of course, that I find it a little bizarre that he is apparently turning away from that at a time when we find that all the projections indicate that we are not below 2 °C. However, many in this gremium have adopted a resolution with those higher targets during the Christmas period; I am pleased that some of the former majority parties, notably Open Vld and CD&V, have approved that climate resolution with higher targets. They say they're in favour first, but then they back off. If we want to stay below that 2°C and reach the target of 1,5°C, is the target of 55% logical or should we continue to take the direction of what our colleague has just projected, i.e. 30%? I think this is a rather crucial question, because it is one thing to adopt a resolution which contains an intention, but another matter to adopt measures that make this possible. That is the interpretation I am giving to Mr Van Quickenborne's intervention. It is said in front of the gallery that 55% is important and a resolution is adopted in Parliament at Christmas because there was a demonstration of 70 000 people; but, at the end of the day, people are asking questions about the target of 55%. Our political party, Green, does not question that, because we are firmly convinced that we should go to that 55%. The question is whether that is also your opinion as a scientist. After all, we can debate with politicians, but the reason for the hearings is that we want to know your opinion as a scientist. If you, as a scientist, look at the current projections, if you see where we should go and if you find that we should stay below 2 °C, with target 1.5 °C, what does that mean for our country? What ambitions should we pursue? I am not talking about resolutions that should make it appear to the outside world that we are doing well, but about what we should do in practice, what measures we should take, what we should aim for. I agree with you that I have mentioned this in the discussions of our motion for a resolution in the Chamber and have repeatedly pointed out in the hearings and debates that it is really crucial to focus on ecology for the future of our economy. Companies wishing to secure their future today must take an ecological component into account; that will be their future insurance. I would remind some of my colleagues from the former majority of this House of an initiative such as Sign for my Future, under which several business leaders explicitly work for a climate law. They are asking for a climate law in our country because, like you, they find that Belgium is among the poor pupils in Europe. The level of ambition in terms of transport, mobility, housing renovation and the launching of renewable energy projects should be increased. Do you believe that a climate law is a necessary framework in our country, or do you see other ways of converting these ambitions into clear, achievable objectives, as a first step? I ask you this because this is the subject of debate in another committee, for which a lot of scientists, executives of Sign for my Future and NGOs are interested parties. In fact, conclusions are drawn from the way in which work has been carried out in recent years. For example, for six years there was a simple debate on Burden Sharing. Yesterday I followed a hearing here in the Chamber in the Committee on Health, where one of the protagonists, Mr Vermeir van Blixt, said that without the Paris Agreement we might not have an agreement on Burden Sharing either. The state structure and decision-making structure of our country, he said, makes it difficult for us to achieve results. If we now see that we are among the poor students, what opportunities do we have to push the decision-making process in our country more towards concrete results? What views and ideas do you have about this? I would, of course, also very much like to move things at European level, but that is not the subject of this committee and we are not empowered to do so either. This exercise must be carried out in the European Parliament, but how can we ourselves ensure that the system works better in Belgium, so that we do not do six more years on a simple debate on Burden Sharing? What's your vision on that? You have experience in concluding very difficult agreements in international forums. I would therefore very much appreciate your input in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1052x.u11	I also have a few questions of my own. A first is, oddly enough, in line with what Mr Van Hees said. However, I have a different connection with China. How do we convince other countries to join in our approach? In the past, I assumed that the developing countries still had a margin to reach our level in terms of their per capita emissions, to match our emissions. However, I am increasingly finding that the figures show that this is no longer the case. I've taken China's figures again. China is currently at a higher level per capita than, for example, the United Kingdom. How can we take them into that story quickly enough, knowing that we absolutely have to take our own responsibility? If the other takes no responsibility or less, it could be a measure for nothing. For my second question, I agree with Mr Van Quickenborne. He pointed out the difference between achieving and tightening our goals. In this House, we have the habit of debating for a long time the percentage we want to achieve, but not the measures that are needed. What is your view of an appropriate objective for this country? We are now at 35%. Some speak of 55% and even 65%. How do you estimate these percentages? Thirdly, in terms of renewable energy measures in Europe, we are largely relying on everything related to biomass. The percentage of renewable energy linked to biomass is between 50% and 60%, whereas I am finding an ever smaller support base for this around me and in our society. Biofuels are a very important aspect today, with what we are doing in terms of CO2 reduction, but the big question is whether we can and want to scale it up even further. What's your point of view? Still within the framework of measures. In our country there is a lot of discussion about CO2 emissions, but we still have a favour in terms of VAT for coal. Those who burn with gas pay 21 %, those who burn with coal pay 12 %. What is your view on such matters? Shouldn't there be a general clean-up? Finally, everything related to the ETS system. This is also the subject of a very frequent debate. I understand that there is still a certain surplus in this system. I also understand that the market stability reserve can provide a partial solution. Do you have any idea when the surplus in the market will disappear? Is this surplus intended to disappear completely? After all, I had understood that the National Emission Authority of the Netherlands has made a very nice infographic on this issue, that a number of rights are now disappearing, but that when the number of allowances on the market falls below a certain level, they go back to the market. Could you give us a little more explanation on that? The question of the impact of nuclear power plants is, of course, very interesting, given the market stability mechanism and everything that has to do with the ETS system. On the other hand, we also see a number of countries where very far-reaching CO2 reductions are already being made today. I am thinking, for example, of Sweden, where we have chosen to combine almost 100% of renewable energy and nuclear energy in order to achieve the objectives for a large part. My question here is, above all, whether you can see that countries with many nuclear power plants are lagging behind more than other countries that, for example, have chosen to use coal power stations in the past. I am referring, for example, to the Netherlands, Germany and Denmark. Thank you for your answers. I am happy to give you the floor to answer the many questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1052x.u12	Mr President, I would like to address the many questions. As regards Mr Nollet's question about the possibility of initiatives between European States, I strongly support cooperation in the non-ETS sector. The ETS is a harmonised system. It is therefore important to act at European level, by means of qualified majorities, in order to take decisions. However, in the non-ETS system, Belgium faces a real challenge, for example in the transport sector. If excise duties or a carbon tax are to be levied in order to control traffic on the streets and on motorways, cooperation – which is essential – must develop at least at Benelux level. The situation in Eastern Europe is completely different from ours as well as the situation in the countries of Northern and Southern Europe. For example, Eurovignette could be used, which would be differentiated according to the necessary arrangements. That is why I absolutely agree that cooperation should be established between Member States on this matter. As for the variable use of energy by large industries or individuals, this very intelligent system needs to be revisited. A lot of initiatives are being taken: solar panels, wind turbines, optimisation of local devices, etc. In the port of Antwerp, the concentration of the energies used is similar to that observed in about twenty places in Europe: Rotterdam, Marseille, Ludwigshafen, etc. These cases differ greatly from what we live as isolated consumers. I come to the question of the relocation of employment and industries. The studies are contradicting your hypothesis. Of course, the phenomenon of relocation exists: we import, for example, more Chinese steel than we did about 20 years ago. However, in return, our exports have not declined. Moreover, they are rather positive in terms of carbon consumption. If we compare the two, the effect is rather neutral. There is a very interesting study by the Joint Research Centre of the European Commission which carries out a series of extremely interesting analyses to follow. Indeed, we can turn around and say that, compared to our exports that are low in CO2 content, we are doing a service to the whole world, and that we do not necessarily cause it a disadvantage.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1052x.u13	Do you speak at European level, or at Belgian level?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1052x.u14	At European level. We have not done so at the Belgian level. Trade statistics are European. It is a comparison system Europe/emerging countries, China, etc. Now I come to Mrs Temmerman, who asked if all noses are pointing in the same direction in the national energy and climate plan. Well, I'm still reading the text, but I noticed a few things. Each region has its own plan and Flanders even has two, namely an energy plan and a climate plan. The Commission had asked each Member State to submit a single integrated plan for all regions together and also for all parts, such as climate, energy and transport, together. It becomes somewhat surreal when each part of the administration elaborates its own part of the story. Allow me to concentrate on that and also on the questions raised by Mrs Almaci and the chairman of the committee on what we can do in Belgium and at European level. Well, the powers are fragmented, our state structure is what it is. Sectoral powers are also fragmented, because we are talking about energy, transport, households, land-use planning and so on. What I feel we need is a much stronger energy and climate plan compared to what we have presented to Europe. By a stronger plan, I mean more detail, including how the objectives are achieved. It is true that there is a tendency to set objectives without achieving them. Such a plan could be a unique opportunity to indicate for a long time how the objectives are achieved, with mid-term evaluations, for example, after three years or five years. Let me take buildings as an example. Building takes time, so the regulation needs to be final. We also know that the existing buildings are a problem, as we are doing very well in the area of new construction and achieving the European level of passive/neutral housing. Objectives for existing buildings must all be rolled out in time, with highly operational sub-targets and with, from an economic point of view, more focus on areas for which intervention is the cheapest. Such a plan does not mean to put forward theoretical objectives, but rather to be an operational policy plan. We have good people to do this, because the Planning Bureau, for example, can help. Many excellent researchers at different universities can be brought together to make such an operational plan, but with the strong commitment that the plan needs to be implemented. The danger of a plan is that it remains a plan. In many Member States, including Belgium, I saw that plans are being submitted to the European institutions, because they have to, but the commitment to implement them has been somewhat weak. Researchers in the field of energy and climate in Flanders must be able to be brought together to make a plan. Then Flanders, Brussels and Wallonia must sit together to present a joint Belgian plan, as Belgium is not even a large Member State in Europe. If a plan cannot be presented in that way, then there is a problem somewhere. I think we could and should do much better there. We must then make the most of the revision of the objective. I am not going to pin myself on 35, 40, 55% or 65%, but it is clear that we will have to do more. The question is: how will we do that and how will we roll out to different ministers what they will have to include in their portfolio? There's a big challenge there. All the initiatives that we are seeing today and which emerge from the wide-ranging debate on climate change point in the same direction, which is an extremely important issue. Mrs Temmerman, you also asked a question about the objective of being climate neutral by 2050. We won't be able to neutralize all our emissions. What comes up now is the question of how we can achieve negative emissions. The question about biomass was asked. One can use biomass with carbon capture and storage. This means that the CO2 generated from the use of biomass is collected by a filter and that the CO2 is stored in the subsurface. That would give negative emissions, because biomass: the tree grows, takes CO2 from the air. If the tree is cut and used in a biomass power plant, one could collect the CO2 and store it back in the subsurface. That's the BECCS. I know not everyone is equally excited about that. Carbon capture and storage is a technology that is not yet up to 100 %, but 80 %. I know there are emotions: will the CO2 stored in the subsurface not be released back? But at least we have a problem, as it will take some time before renewable energy will be able to cover our energy needs at 100%. That is the whole problem of the intermediate period, including gas. If we were to use gas to replace the nuclear, the same carbon capture and storage technology would be necessary for this. The expected policy: are we 12 % or 10 % too short? The debate on the figures is about the expected policy. If we take the statistics as I did in my slides from 2017, we're at 10 %. However, we know that the policy will not be strengthened between 2017 and 2020. We all know that in recent months and years, the policy has stopped a little bit and that we are only now recovering late, mainly on renewable energy. Hence the optimists say that we will reach 12 % and the pessimists at 10 %. This is a little bit of a coffee pie, but I've based my story on historical statistics. Mr Senesael, with regard to the balance of power - 40% compared to 55% - the essential thing is that such a revision of the objectives is achieved through a consensus at the highest level. There is therefore a need for a well-prepared debate between Heads of State and Government. What the Commission has said and produced is the first basic document to enrich this debate. We did exactly the same in 2011-12 to prepare the targets that were adopted by the Heads of Government and State in 2014 for the 2030 targets. There is a little work to be done, and it always raises the same question. It's good to play on the goals, but are we prepared to take the necessary steps to achieve them? In which sector? I believe that transport in Belgium is a total tragedy. This goes in every direction and steadily increasing. Of all sectors, trucks, cars, public transport could be substantially improved, as well as medium-range TGVs. We have a debate on the TGV in relation to the air sector. These are good debates, because we have an excellent rail network. Why not optimize it? How can a reform of the ETS be carried out? There were several questions about this. It is a harmonised system, as I have just said, but we can reduce business allowances. The reserve system was created, the "frigo" for the surplus. We can cancel what's in the fridge after two or three years. The Netherlands study refers to the fact that the fridge is there for a transitional period of two to three years. After that, if we don't need these allowances, we can destroy them. We can have them destroyed, and therefore make the goal more effective. That's the equivalent. I come to the question you asked, as well as Mr. Van Hees, on welfare, economic system, workers, unemployment. In this major plan, we must also deal very explicitly with the question of a retraining programme. We need more skills. For example, in the construction sector, in order to move towards very high energy efficiency, workers in the field need to know that this is not just a small thing to add, but that basic work must be done in a very controlled manner. From time to time, there is a spirit that tends to say that researchers and intellectuals exaggerate. Attention must be paid to these elements, not just in the construction sector. There are short-term costs. You mustn't hide the truth. The cost is in the short term and the result is in the medium term because people have to change their habits, change their mode of transport, switch from car to public transport. But this short-term cost is worth it and we must explain to the citizens that it is necessary to achieve a result. We have to convince them. The plan must highlight the fact that if the short-term cost is accepted, a certain result will be achieved after three or even four years. The most attractive example is traffic jams around and in large cities (Brussels, Antwerp, etc.).). The short-term cost is that of the change and the result is the decrease in traffic at peak hours. At the same time, if this is achieved, the person who pays for the use of the roads will benefit from a service without traffic jams. The person who has to arrive on time and who pays to use the roads will benefit in exchange for a service without delay. This is the short-, medium- and long-term system that needs to be explained. On the subject of China, this country is doing something extraordinary: introducing the ETS system as we have in Europe. It started with the electricity sector. A list of ten sectors including steel, chemistry, etc. has been drawn up and China's efforts are spectacular. It will probably take them five or ten years, just as we needed that time for it to work. But China is very motivated, I must say! We participated in exchange programs and they impressed me. You just mentioned the TGV. What they do in the renewable sector (window, solar), is extraordinary. The largest capacity invested is in China and not here in Europe or the United States. In the battery sector, which we need for electric cars, they invest heavily. Europe is missing the opportunity. Emerging countries should not be demonized. But if we want to control greenhouse gas emissions, we need them. Without them, we won't reach the 2°C target. I have already spoken about nuclear power, the ETS system, energy efficiency and transport.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1052x.u15	Excuse me, but do you think the evolution on the ETS is sufficient? That is still what efficiency is judged to be. You seem to say that after a youth illness, everything is going well. What is the annual rate of decrease in the ETS system? About 2%? Is that enough?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1052x.u16	I'm not saying that's enough. But it's better than reaching the non-ETS system, which does not exceed 1.5%. The ETS system reaches 2.5%. Your question is whether the 2030 target for the ETS system is enough to get the 2°C. The legal objective is less than 43 at the 2005 level. The 2.5% continues until 2030. In order to strengthen the system, it is essential to tackle the free allocations given to companies in the steel, cement and chemistry sectors, which may suffer from a disadvantage in the international market. Productions in China and other emerging countries are not yet subject to the same constraints as Europe. It is a matter of international trade. If the ETS system is to be significantly strengthened, the question of international trade must be asked. Either our trading partners will implement, implement the Paris Agreement, as we do, or they will not. If they do not, a question will arise as to the trade system. I hope that this will not be done chaotically and that this question will be addressed openly to the World Trade Organization (WTO/WTO) and not unilaterally to the Trump method: "You do not do this. You're not doing that. Therefore, I impose a tariff. Any one." It would not be good for Europe to make a copy of the Trump approach to the climate issue. It is preferable to put the issue on the WTO table by saying that the problem needs to be addressed. In the meantime, the ETS system with free allocation of quotas remains for a period of five to ten years, i.e. the necessary period for negotiations within the WTO. Mr Van Quickenborne asked us what more we should do and what tax incentives we could use for this. We must indeed look at these fiscal incentives, but we also know that we will have to find compensation. I believe that this is the reality of government policy. If we take generous initiatives, which I am totally in favour of, the question will arise as to how they will be financed. This can be done either by means of other taxes or by means of a tax reduction, but it will have to be said where it will be implemented. I believe there are many possibilities. I believe that there is a consensus on the commercial vehicles, as you yourself pointed out, Mr Van Quickenborne. I believe that, in a few years' time, only an emission-free car will be able to be financed in the generous way that applies today. I believe that there is a consensus on this and that many people are willing to move away from their pay car if alternative systems have been found. That is the subject of a wide debate. We know that car is now a disguised form of remuneration. We have to face up to the fact that we have to deal with this. I have already answered the question about raising the targets. One thing I would like to raise is the contradiction between a CO2 tax and possible social corrections. I believe that we have handled this very well in the past. In the past I don't know how long it's been.... was the first disk of the electricity bill for free. From a certain minimum the normal pricing was applied. Let us now also make this first electricity, gas or water charges on water so strict that the 5% poorest in society can survive without worrying. Eventually, the transition will come from the 95% others. We do not ask the 5% poorest to be the frontrunner on the transition. Since they are poor, let us be clear, they are not the largest emitters of CO2, either for electricity, heating or transport services. Perhaps we should review the system that we had previously, so that we can tell the people who have had the hardest time that the first electricity, gas and water bill is free of charge and that the next one will be charged. I believe this should be possible. Mrs Almaci, you asked a question about the nuclear aspect. Quite a lot has been said about this. According to specialists, it is certain that the nuclear power plants are good at base load. This is a passive amount of electricity, which is difficult to modulate in view of the variability we have in terms of sunshine and wind. We need to be able to cope with this variability. The vast majority of specialists agree that nuclear energy generation is not good for meeting this variability. For that there are other things, and one of them that could be studied is demand management. On weekends, when the other factories don't run, and when the wind blows, the electricity becomes available for free. We could agree with energy-intensive companies that if there is a lot of free electricity in the wind forecast, it will be given to these companies free of charge, provided that a number of facilities are provided. The same goes for the sun. If we have a sunny weekend, the electricity in Europe will not only be free, but will be paid to use that electricity, because battery storage is so expensive. Perhaps we should open this up a little bit with regard to energy-intensive companies, which are not the most labour-intensive companies, but which are very capital-intensive. It's gotta be possible. In any case, this is already happening in other European countries. In Germany there are a lot of windmills. When the wind blows, the electricity is much cheaper available to those companies. Mrs Almaci, you also spoke about our businesses. Our companies are part of this story, but I believe that the policy is lagging behind. Our companies see that the future lies where the new technology guarantees low CO2 emissions. We have very innovative companies, which are important players in Europe in relation to parts of solar panels and windmills, but also for batteries, new chemistry and so on. Mr President, I come to biomass and taxation of coal vis-à-vis gas. It is an aberration that we apply a lower VAT rate to coal. We need to review that. There are very strict requirements on biomass in the Paris Agreement. Sinks, the technical name, or afforestation, are included and integrated in the Paris Agreement. In our trade agreements both in Europe and outside Europe, we must now prove that it is in accordance with the Paris Agreement. It's rolling out now. A number of supplies from countries that now supply biomass to Europe will be stopped. We also calculate the proportion of negative biomass emissions. Biomass is not entirely wrong but of course one should not touch young trees and old valuable trees. It's about land management. In many parts of Europe, forestry is equivalent to agriculture. In Sweden, for example, there are a lot of forests. That is what sustainable forestry is about. They are developing a know-how that we have been looking at at a European level. We are now trying to transpose this into legislation. Biomass may not play the major role in Belgium 50 to 60% today, but it certainly deserves a place in the debate. The Paris Agreement anticipated this. I thank you for the many questions and hope to have answered most of them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1052x.u17	I propose that we continue and give the floor immediately to Mr Van Nuffel for his presentation, after which Mr van Ypersele will be given the floor. There may then be a further round of questions. After all, our time is limited.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1052x.u18	Mr President, I should like to introduce myself very quickly. I am a graduate in international relations and business administration. I am one of the founders of the Climate Coalition and, for about a year, its president. It is a national, pluralistic and independent coalition of political parties. It brings together some seventeen member organisations including environmental and development NGOs, the three trade unions, youth organisations (the Vlaamse Jeugdraad and the Conseil de la Jeunesse francophone), as well as a series of citizen movements including the Climate Express with which we organized the march on 2 December, the first of the great mobilizations that our country has known for three months. I would point out that we are not the initiators of the march of 27 January, which has brought together another seven hundred thousand people in the streets of Brussels. We are also not behind the young people of Youth for Climate who are quite autonomous and who have mobilized themselves. The fact that the mobilisation, which was historically driven by organised civil society, is now driven by citizens and our young people is a very strong signal to the political world. I have great comfort today to be able to speak after Dr. Delbeke and before Professor van Ypersele. I will therefore not be able to dwell too much on the findings that have already been widely exposed to you. Before I deliver my message, I would like to draw your attention to what we believe is a priority for the coming months and years. In addition to what was said before me, I would also like to add that States' voluntary commitments under the Paris Agreement, including at least 40 per cent of the European Union, lead to global warming above 3 °C. Professor van Ypersele will be able to explain all the implications in this area at more length than I am. But if I had to sum up what science tells us in relation to more than 3°C, it is that it is unable to say what will happen if the warming takes on such a magnitude. We have some vision of a 1.5°C warming through the IPCC report released on October 6. The differences between 1.5°C warming and 2°C warming have been scientifically explained: 1.5°C, this is already serious; 2°C is very serious. For 3 °C, because of a whole series of phenomena of creeping, science is unable to predict what will happen to our planet and the human species. During the first part of this hearing, discussions took place on the realism of the 55 % target. You have decided to support this objective at European level by the resolution adopted by this House in December. The only realism today is to respect the Paris Agreement. This implies that we stay below 2°C and do everything we can not to exceed 1.5°C. The IPCC supplementary report commissioned by COP21, released on 6 October, shows us the huge difference between 1.5 and 2°C. This 55 % mark is the only realistic way to ensure that Europe takes its part and that tomorrow we do not face exorbitant social and environmental costs to our economy. I insist very strongly on that. These costs are now very difficult to calculate, to the point that global reinsurers are warning strongly: if we do not stop global warming, they will no longer be able to cover the costs of the predicted climate damage. Since December 2, we have heard many political speeches. We have noted an awareness on the part of most actors in the political world. They are aware of the need to act, to review ambitions. National public opinion – and I strongly stress this – wants to do so. If some of you took part in the various marches that took place, they will have seen that there were all the diversity of the generations and all the diversity of the community that our country is experiencing. The Eurobarometer, like the opinion polls published in the press, shows very well that global warming is today one of the main concerns of the population, in Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels, and the main concern of the 18-25 year olds. Citizens have remained mobilized. I will not hide from you that even we, when we organised the march on 2 December, did not expect it to take such a big step and to be followed at this point. We were surprised, in particular, by the mobilization of young people, whom I said they had mobilized themselves. I would like to stress one aspect. I do it wherever I can. We have heard the political actors on all sides – I am not aiming at any particular party – say that they have done a lot, but that they have not explained it enough. The Belgian population is extremely aware of what you have done. She knows that. But the report of the European Semester of the European Commission just released a few days ago shows that you have not done enough. Today, Belgium is not in line with the 2020 targets. The European Commission even considers that we may not reach those of 2030. For 2020, we are talking about 12% instead of 15%. For 2030, as Mr Delbeke said, there is a 14 per cent issue, which is far from the 35 per cent expected to be achieved. Of course, all levels of government have taken several initiatives, including at the federal level. However, it must be noted that Belgium is not making sufficient progress to meet its commitments under the Kyoto + Protocol and the Paris Agreement. However, I repeat, these objectives are not ambitious enough to meet the second. I would like to share some cross-cutting messages with you before I dwell on some of the fields that we believe are essential. I didn't come here to take stock of every policy I've pursued. What matters to us is what will happen in the coming days, months and years. First of all, science teaches us – and citizens are aware of it – that there is no miracle solution to global warming. Individual action will not be enough, even if it is absolutely necessary. In his absence, political action will also prove to be insufficient, but it is also absolutely indispensable. We must act at all levels of power. The Paris Agreement has given us an international framework, which was absolutely necessary, but which remains insufficient – especially in view of the voluntary ambitions expressed by States. It is therefore important to act at European, federal and local level. Finally, I will insist on the essential nature of technology, even if it – as well as changes in lifestyles – is not alone capable of providing dignified living conditions for all mankind. Moreover, I would like to take this opportunity to return to the question raised about carbon capture in the soil, even if I am not going into the debate, as I am not a specialist in the matter. There is another way to capture carbon, which is much safer and, in any case, 100% technically efficient. I am talking about a revision of building standards to ensure that much more wood and much less concrete are used. This will indeed lead to a huge impact in terms of reducing carbon emissions – very much present in today's buildings. From the moment you use wood, you capture it not as gas, but as solid. This is one of the aspects on which, in terms of building standards, there may be room for reflection. Today, we are able to build extremely efficient buildings based on wood. But it was a little annexation. Second essential cross-cutting message: let us stop opposing the economy, social and environmental! The United Nations Framework Convention on Global Warming was adopted at the Earth Summit in Rio. It is one of the three major environmental conventions emanating from the Declaration on Sustainable Development. The main mistake that has been made since a generation is to have made the climate a kind of silo that was managed alongside socio-economic issues, employment issues, etc. Studies show that not only will Europe be a winner to have more climate ambition, but also that Belgium is one of the biggest winning countries in this field. The presentation that was given to you by my colleague Sébastien Storme, whom you recently invited, on behalf of the union bench, gave you a lot of information in the field. A study by Eurofound, which is a tripartite foundation in which states, companies and trade unions are based, shows that Belgium is the country of the European Union that has the most to gain in terms of employment. In addition, a 2016 Climact study estimated around 80,000 net jobs that we could gain by raising our climate ambitions. What to do? I would like to stress a series of concrete measures that we believe must be taken forward in the coming months. I cannot fail to tell you first of all about the issue of the special climate law. We strongly support the adoption of such a mechanism, because two key elements are found in the project. The first is to set a clear course, which prevents going back. This is all the difficulty we have had in the generation that has just passed: climate ambition has depended on European directives on the one hand and on the political will that has been seen in the light of the evolution of the various majorities on the other. The advantage of the tool of the special climate law, and we can go back to the discussion of the comments that the Council of State has made on this tool, is that the special climate law sets a clear course. If adopted, it will have a broad societal base with a two-thirds majority in this Parliament and a majority in each linguistic community. It will allow us to move towards a 2030 target and a 2050 target. Moreover, and the Council of State does not dispute this at all, such a law will enable us to improve the governance of climate decisions at Belgian level. If there is one subject that is unanimous in civil society, it is that climate governance does not work. The Federal Council for Sustainable Development, of which I have been a member for the last ten years, has delivered several opinions unanimously on this subject, including with the employer, in order to stress the need to improve climate governance and, at the same time, transparency. My colleague Olivier Van der Maren, who was present here recently, also stressed this dimension. There are probably many points on which we are not going to agree, between the FEB and the member organisations of the Climate Coalition, but on this specific point there is a broad consensus. Today, there is a need to significantly improve climate governance with a view to making it more effective and transparent. I will insist on two additional aspects. The establishment of a council of independent experts to assess the full range of climate, energy and transport policies in relation to the commitments made in the Paris Agreement seems to us to be a real added value. On the other hand, the law does not provide, at this stage – but I would like to point out that it seems essential to me to include it – the following point: the Paris Agreement does not only provide for commitments in terms of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, but also a commitment by the historically industrialized states to finance the transition in developing countries. In the previous debate, the case of China was mentioned, but there are also dozens of other developing countries that will have to evolve to enable all their populations to live in dignity. Let us remember that a billion human beings are currently living below the threshold of misery. It will be necessary to allow the development of these countries without going through the carbon box. China has not only gone through the carbon box but also not through the coal box. And indeed, as you pointed out, the current per capita emissions of this country (historical emissions being far from ours) are as high as those recorded in the West. It was essential to avoid the same path for developing countries to achieve their development. To ensure this, in accordance with the principle of common but differentiated responsibility as reflected in the Rio Declaration and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, we are bound by a financial commitment to developing countries. This has been included in the Paris Agreement and should also, in our view, be incorporated into a special climate law that will set the course for the resources Belgium intends to devote to it. Is it unconstitutional? We will perhaps come back to this in the debate, but I would like to stress that it is rare for the Council of State's opinion – which I have read in detail, and I have a certain habit of reading this Council's opinion – to make such constructive proposals to enable the legislator to achieve his objective while respecting his competences. I will not go into the details of the various proposals made by the Council of State but very clearly it confirms that part of the basis of the special law is totally constitutional and other elements are not. At this stage, other proposals are being made to resolve the problem. It is therefore a matter of political will. There is no legal obstacle today to moving forward on the proposal made at the beginning by a series of academics (i.e. independent of us because they have acted independently) and many parties have co-signed them. What does the Council of State tell us today about this proposal? He tells us that it is adaptable in order to achieve the ambition that you adopted in the parliamentary resolution of December with a fairly broad majority. I won't be any longer on the special climate law. Perhaps we can go back to that in the discussion. Even if this law were to be adapted – we agree, the parallel has been made with the exit of nuclear power – a special law alone will not serve anything. It is only one of the instruments necessary to have an arsenal that will allow us to move forward. The second instrument is the National Energy-Climate Plan. I fully agree with what has been said today about the fact that this Plan is currently a sum of plans of the various entities, which it is difficult to deduce if they meet European commitments. Even if they comply with them, this Plan is clearly not in compliance with the Paris Agreement, as it is part of a 35% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions. It may not be the House that is the main player in moving forward in this area, but I urge you to push the government forward. It is well known that the National Energy-Climate Plan will not be adopted before the elections (this is not the timetable), but the government has the power to mandate the administration, the Planning Office, at least all federal governments, to ask them to rework the National Energy-Climate Plan with 55% ambition. Today, it is possible to push the Prime Minister to defend the target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions to 55% at European level by 2030, which you have included in your resolution. But in the meantime, let's go ahead, damn it! Therefore, ask the administration to do the work necessary for the next legislature to allow us to put in place a National Energy-Climate Plan that is fully in line with the Paris Agreement. I stress that the Dutch state has been condemned by the courts for failing to protect its population by failing to implement policies in accordance with what science says and what the Paris Agreement demands. So, whether there is a special law or not, by signing the Paris Agreement, you have committed yourself to taking the part of Belgium, and also of the European Union, in keeping the temperature in two degrees. The most practical element is the National Energy-Climate Plan. I am not going to go into the details of the measures that are there. I will forward, through the committee secretariat, the Climate Coalition memorandum that we delivered yesterday to the Prime Minister's services, in an amended version. If you followed the press, you know that at a first Climate - Express Climate Coalition meeting, we gave a first memorandum to the Prime Minister, who he submitted to the Office of the Plan. We hope to have an initial assessment of our applications by the end of the month. Yesterday we reviewed the services of the Prime Minister, who was in Berlin to meet Chancellor Merkel. We have provided an amended version of our requests to his Chief of Staff, who I am prepared to forward to you after this meeting. The third element concerns the famous national conference on the just transition that Mr. Storme told you about when he came to meet you recently. He highlighted the fact that most of our neighbours, like many countries around the world, have put such arrangements in place. I would like to stress one essential dimension concerning the right transition: contrary to what some claim, it is not a social concept; it is the reconciliation of the three major dimensions of sustainable development, namely the environmental, social and economic dimensions. We will not have a transition just if we do not create an environment that allows businesses to adapt and create tomorrow's economy. We will not have a transition just if we do not massively organize the training of workers, including unemployed workers, to enable them to move from one economic sector to another. Nor will we have a fair transition if we do not have a strong social security system that allows workers who are in the interstitial between a sector where employment will most certainly decline to a more promising sector. I would remind you that there are 80 000 net jobs to be created in the next ten years in climate matters, through the renovation of buildings, through transport, etc. But let's be clear, some sectors of the economy will have to adapt. We need to be able to accompany these sectors. Fourth level. This is the European level. A European summit will be held next week. The Prime Minister will obviously be there. On the basis of the resolution you adopted in December, I can only encourage you to urge the Prime Minister to defend the vision you have adopted together and also to dialogue with the federated entities, since we know very well that today the Walloon Region, the Brussels Region and the Federal State have positioned themselves through various mechanisms in favour of increasing ambition towards 55%. If we want Belgium to be able to carry this out unanimously, we can only encourage a very firm dialogue between all the entities that make up this country by the European Summit, so that our Prime Minister can present himself at the European Summit with a reinforced ambition that clearly calls on the European Union to respect the Paris Agreement, to position itself towards -55 % by 2030 and the decarbonisation of our economy in 2050. On the other hand, it may be a little short to do so before the next European summit, but I can only encourage you to explore the issue of the Climate Finance Pact, which has been proposed by a number of scientists, both economists and climatologists, including Jean Jouzel and Pierre Larrouturou, which brings together a broad spectrum of political actors in several European countries. Among the tools that allow you to finance this transition, it seems to us to be a tool that really deserves to be explored, that is, the creation of a European climate bank that would be fed by various sources of financing, and in particular the fact that the money creation schemes that have been used several times since the financial crisis to bail out banks are rather used to feed businesses and households in the necessary transition. So here are four levels that I think should be discussed. What you can do most useful in the short term – we know that there is little time left before the end of this legislature – is clearly progress on the special climate law. Secondly, pressure must be put to prepare for the next parliamentary term. The continuity of the State with regard to the National Energy-Climate Plan is a matter of concern. We must be in order before the end of the year to deliver an ambitious and coherent plan to the European Commission. Thirdly, progress must be made on the issue of the just transition. Fourthly, it is about joining the list of the most ambitious countries. This was called the coalition of the willing, a series of European countries that told COP24 that they were ready to boost ambitions. Belgium has not been able to join them, but it is never too late. In conclusion, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we all have a historical responsibility. You have him in particular as political leaders. We are the first generation to experience the consequences of global warming in a clear way. In Belgium, this was reflected in the summer of 2018 that we experienced, with weeks without the freshness coming back. It is clear that no such phenomenon can be directly associated with global warming, but it is known that the last four years have all been record in terms of the warmest temperatures. If we are the first generation to suffer directly from the consequences of warming, we are the last that can solve it. So we all have a historical responsibility and must set an essential course. We are facing a civilizational challenge. The October IPCC report tells us very clearly that the situation is serious but that it is still possible – it is the hope – to stay below 1.5°C, under two conditions: it is now and not in ten years' time, and this requires major changes, including in our production and consumption patterns. These changes will probably be the most significant since the industrial revolution, or even in a much longer term. Therefore, your responsibility, our responsibility today, is to set a clear course. I would like to point out to you that there is an obvious economic issue for a country like ours. A whole range of sectors, including oil and chemistry, are sectors with very high employment rates. We talked about the port of Antwerp earlier. This whole area depends on oil and chemistry. I didn't come here to tell you to pretend it didn't exist. It is obvious that we will have to accompany these sectors. In the meantime, science gives us a clear deadline: in a generation, oil is over! We have a choice: either to make the oil economy last as long as possible, as we tried to make the coal economy last as long as possible in the post-war period, with the economic disaster that it could later represent, because the transition had not been prepared and it took two decades to allow the industrial basins of the Charleroi region and the Liège region to recover; or to anticipate with a clear vision of what the economy should be in 2050 without oil and to accompany the actors in order to enable them to revolutionise their functioning. It is a fact that in 2050 we will no longer be able to use oil or in such a small amount that it will no longer be able to represent such a sector in our economy and in our jobs. The report of the European Commission which has just come out is extremely clear. Belgium is lagging behind its 2020 and 2030 targets. Its National Energy-Climate Plan, although we do not yet have the European Commission's evaluation, will have to be reviewed. Its objectives are not even in line with the Paris Agreement. As others have said elsewhere, we, the civil society with the various actors, intend to remain mobilized, not only we, the civil society, who are expected on the subject but obviously, the young people who go out on the street every week since January, with a keen awareness of what these changes will represent in relation to their way of life. Young people will remain mobilized because for them, this is the first issue you need to solve in the coming decade. It is obvious that many will rest on the next legislature. There are a few weeks left but you have the ability today to set a course. I therefore invite you to live up to this historic responsibility. It is not for me to define the exact legal mechanism that you must adopt, but a proposal is now on the table. You have to adapt it to the comments made by the Council of State, which makes you very clear proposals. I invite you to move forward. Your voters are watching you. We will vote on 26 May. Obviously, hundreds of thousands of people in this country expect first actions to be taken for the climate. Then we'll see what needs to be done. Of course, we have two legislatures ahead of us to begin the course of the transition.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1052x.u19	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we welcome Mr van Ypersele in the meantime. Mr van Ypersele, I will give you the floor immediately for your presentation so that we can organise a final round of questions with Members afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1052x.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your invitation. It's a great honour to be before you once again. I'm going to speak in French because I know there are excellent interpreters. I am not sure that I will be able to show you in detail each of the slides that will obviously be made available to you. Also, I will begin, first of all, by summarizing in a few key words the very simple messages that I am going to pass on. I'm a physicist, I'm a climatologist, I've been working on climate change for 40 years and a month now. My specialty is not to comment on the constitutional or non-constitutional nature of a particular provision of a bill, but rather to shed light on two things. On the one hand, there is the climate emergency on which some points may not yet be sufficiently known. On the other hand, with my cap as chairman of the Energy and Climate Working Group of the Federal Council for Sustainable Development (CFDD), I want to stress the repeated messages of the CFDD, which brings together all the societal actors – Mr. Van Nuffel just mentioned it. The repeated messages of this Council, and even of the predecessors of this Council, aim at the importance and urgency of improving coordination between the different levels of power, and also, within each level of power, to improve coordination between departments which sometimes deal with one or the other aspect of climate policy. If I may, I will go back to an opinion, not to the CFDD, which was created by a law that dates, as I remember correctly, from 1997, but from the National Council of Opinions on Climate, Environment and Development, which I have here – unfortunately, it is not on-line. This opinion had been prepared just before the Rio conference. You will see that this opinion published 27 years ago has not really been listened to, while he said a lot of things that could have been said a few months ago. I read to you about the climate emergency, the beginning of Part 3: "Given the seriousness of the problems posed by climate change, we, members of the National Council of Opinion, all stakeholders, want to draw the attention of the public and public authorities to the risks of unsustainable effects for future generations." Another small excerpt: "We ask the authorities of this country to make widely known the measures taken to reduce CO2 emissions and to start without further delay – written in 1992 – the development of a strategy involving all economic, political and social actors in achieving the target announced by Belgium by the year 2000", at that time. So you see, it's been so long as experts, representatives from all sectors of society, economic actors, NGOs, scientists, etc. repeat this message that we sometimes find it difficult to understand why it did not pass. At this stage, I would like to give an important element of context. It concerns the United States. We have very precise data, thanks to the Freedom of Information Act, which is more powerful than some European legislation, on the budgets made available by fossil industry lobbies to sow misinformation about climate change. These budgets for the period 2003-2010, according to an article published in a peer review, amounted to $900 million per year! Almost a billion dollars a year to sow disinformation. If I may recall this today, it is not to talk about entirely artificial controversies that some would still wish - but it is a rear-guard fight - that the climate is warming. Everyone knows and sees it now. Nor is it so much to talk about human responsibility for warming. I think there is such a broad consensus in the scientific community today that it is of no interest to come back to this issue. Above all, I wanted to draw your attention to the fact that these efforts, which are very well financed in the United States and which are probably well financed in Europe too, even if we do not have such precise figures, have moved and are now dealing with the cost of decarbonisation, for example, or with the widest possible identification of all the disadvantages of alternatives. You have to be aware of that. If you click on the link on the dia, you will have a very precise example of the dismantling of a sequence passed in a television newspaper on CNN that talked about the use of cobalt in electric car batteries. That's an example, but he's quite speaking. It is in this context that the IPCC-IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) was established just over 30 years ago. Its goal is, on climate issues, to provide the most objective information possible to decision-makers around the world and at all levels of power, as well as to citizens, the media, teachers and all those interested in climate issues. Part of my presentation will therefore be based on the IPCC reports. I will now illustrate the climate emergency by showing you the speed with which the global average temperature is rising. You see how close we are to the red circle – 1.5 °C above the pre-industrial level. In parentheses, I would like to express a small disagreement with my neighbour. The white circle – 2°C below the pre-industrial level – is not the objective of the Paris Agreement. Indeed, it states that it is a matter of staying "well below two degrees" – it is very different. Below two degrees, this was the goal of the Copenhagen Agreement in 2009. For the one in Paris, there is a question of "well below two degrees". They won't make me think it's the same thing as 1,999. This slight disagreement is still important, because the consequences in terms of emission reduction – I assure you – are not at all the same. So you see how fast – and the urgency is, in a way, hidden behind it – we are approaching this 1.5°C of warming that we have every reason to want to avoid. This can be seen in the fact that the past five years have been the warmest five years since 1880 on a global scale. More and more often, temperature records are broken. What is the reason? That's because we use the atmosphere like a big, free trash can. Things would certainly be very different if the use of this "dubble" were not, as my friend Jos Delbeke said. Understanding the comparison between what we do and the thickening of an insulating cover, not around our homes, but around the planet, allows us to understand why, as soon as possible, we must stop thickening this cover. This means that zero emissions must be achieved. There is no need for a complicated climate model to understand it. Just look at this other spiral – which you have never seen, because it is a slide that I have prepared especially for you – that shows you the evolution, since 1850, of the carbon concentration in the atmosphere. This will allow you to understand the comparison with an increasing insulation thickness. We understand that we have just exceeded 400/1,000,000ths of CO2, 400 ppm. We understand that if we are to prevent this thickening of the CO2 insulation layer and other greenhouse gases from increasing, which is the main cause of the warming observed over the past 60 or 70 years, very clearly, we must stop adding more CO2 than natural systems can absorb. This is called carbon neutrality or zero net emissions to which we must arrive as soon as possible. In practice, this means zero emissions, at least from fossil fuels and deforestation. Here is how this CO2 concentration has evolved over the last 10,000 years with a stable concentration for almost 9,800 years, and then with an explosion in the last 200 years, since the Industrial Revolution. The 10,000 years you see here correspond to the period during which, to a degree, the temperature has remained stable. This is the entire period during which civilizations have developed throughout the world. This is the whole period during which the infrastructure was built, especially near the coast. Think of all the port infrastructures that have obviously been designed according to the fairly stable sea level over the last 10,000 years! Think also of the agriculture that has developed according to the fairly stable climate that has reigned over the last 10,000 years! We risk getting out of this area on the continents, but also getting out of it in a way that is less known in the oceans, since it is not only the temperature that rises, but also the acidity level, as this graph eloquently shows. You can observe the degree of acidity over the last 25 million years and you can see how the shock we are producing has no precedent. This is obviously a shock to all marine organisms, an unprecedented shock in the last 25 million years. So we have no idea at this stage of the impact that this will have on marine resources and life and on all the ecosystems in the oceans. Looking to the future, the IPCC, in its latest comprehensive report released in 2013-2014, has considered four major scenarios. The red script on top is a kind of business as usual scenario. Unfortunately, this is the scenario we are still on because global CO2 emissions are still increasing. This is a scenario that would bring us, towards the end of this century, beyond or around 1000 ppm CO2. It's a concentration that's starting to hurt everyone's head. So, beyond the climate impacts, it's something that's too little known, too, we're going, if we stay on that trajectory, to an atmosphere that's getting heavy for everyone. And it will not be enough to open the window to aerate because the outside air will be 2.5 times richer in CO2 than today and it is at this level that we begin to feel the first physiological effects on the ability to concentrate, on the ability to reflect and even on the intellectual quotient. This has been measured. I therefore draw your attention to this other aspect. Of course, if we go even beyond 1000 ppm, it becomes even more damaging. There are three other scenarios that correspond to levels of stabilization in CO2 concentration. There is in fact only the lowest, the RCP 2.6, which keeps the temperature about within the range covered by the Paris Agreement. But if we stay on the main trajectory, we would, by the end of the century, have 4 or 5 degrees more, which would translate into Europe, in some places, by 8 or 12 degrees more, which is huge. To appreciate what this represents, I think it is necessary to remember that only 20,000 years ago – in the history of the earth, it is a moment! – there were already many humans on the surface of the earth and the climate was significantly colder than today, with ice caps two to three kilometres thick on North America and North Europe. The temperature at that time was on average only 4-5 degrees lower overall. So, four to five degrees more in a hundred years, it is a temperature difference as important as that between these two situations, a difference which also led the sea level, by the melting of these ice caps, to rise by 120 meters between the situation of 20,000 years ago and the situation of today. So, four or five degrees, on an overall average, it would be absolutely catastrophic for the very habitability of the planet. This is particularly the case in terms of sea levels, which you can see here from the old IPCC projections. These projections will be revised - I am almost certain - sharply upwards in the special report on sea level rise to be published next September. We are talking about probably having a minimum of one metre of sea level rise at the end of the century, perhaps 2 to 3 metres at the end of this century and beyond. If we don't have any additional protection – I insist on the "if" – the area that is in blue here, in Belgium and in our neighbouring countries, is underwater. In the long term, this is even more worrying. Elsewhere than in Belgium, a metre of sea level rise will affect tens of millions of people around the world. Just think of the Nile Delta. The area in red here had more than ten million inhabitants twenty years ago. It's probably more today. This area, which is in red, is less than a metre above the level of the Mediterranean. However, if we look at this diagram, which we have to take the time to look at in detail, and I invite you to do so at rest, you will see that if we remain on the business as usual trajectory on which we are still, unfortunately, at the end of this century we would have cumulative emissions of CO2, expressed in billions of tons of carbon, which would be around two thousand billion tons of carbon, or two thousand gigatons of carbon. At these times, at this level, sea level rise to +1000 years, +3,000 years and +10 000 years goes up to 20 meters for the average sea level. These are sea level elevations which are of this order: + 8 meters, for example, for the year 3000 for our regions, without additional protection. This is what this means for regions that would potentially be under water without additional protection, with the question that can be asked. Will there be people ready to live 10 metres below sea level, protected by a perhaps very strong dike, but who would close the sight and who would not be very pleasant from the point of view of the risks faced by these people? Our country is deeply concerned about the consequences of climate change in various areas, including sea level rise. In October, the IPCC published a special report on the consequences of warming that would be limited to 1.5°C. The consequences of 1.5°C warming and 2°C warming were compared in this report. I repeat once again the remark that the Paris Agreement does not have 2°C as its objective. It's well below 2°C anyway. I would point out that three years ago I founded the Walloon Platform for the IPCC, which is funded by the Walloon government, and that one of the letters that we publish six times a year is dedicated to this special report on a 1.5°C warming. I have a few copies with me. You may be interested. It's obviously also available electronically. You can imagine that beyond 2°C, it would be much worse. The percentage of the world's population that, for more than five days every five years, would be exposed to extreme heat waves, with only 1.5°C of warming above the pre-industrial level – as a reminder, we are already just over 1°C – would reach 14%. Although this appears to be annoyance, at 2 °C, this rate would rise to 37% of the world's population. In short, every half-degree counts: it was one of the messages in this report. It is also important to ask what emission trajectories would allow us to remain below 1.5°C of warming and achieve the most ambitious objective of the Paris Agreement. The IPCC shows us in detail, on the basis of all the simulations available in the literature, the need – as I indicated earlier in my comparison with a thick layer of insulation – to achieve by the middle of this century, which is never until thirty years from now, a carbon neutrality of emissions that will no longer have to exceed the absorption capacity of the natural systems of vegetation and oceans. This is not included in the IPCC report, but it should be borne in mind that every year we step back from reaching a peak in global emissions, this will be another challenge to further reduce it. Indeed, it is the total quantity of insulation that counts. If we continue to install an ever thicker layer, we inevitably reach the limit of the thickness of the insulation associated with this 1.5 °C warming. It is therefore necessary to reduce even more rapidly the spread of this layer around the planet caused by the continuation of greenhouse gas emissions. The figures are known. The IPCC is talking about emission reductions compared to 2010 of the order of 45% by 2030. This means 50% worldwide of current emissions. To meet the 1.5°C target, it is necessary to reach zero net around 2050. These are quotes from the IPCC; I did not make these slides: they come from the IPCC. This is about the need for a systemic transition. We are not only talking – even if it is, of course, indispensable – about changing all the incandescent bulbs where they still exist – and I hope that there are no more in this room, although I am not quite sure – by LED bulbs. System transitions are much more than that: it is about changing the way we use land resources and fossil fuels in particular. This needs to be revisited in order to reorient our use of these resources in order to achieve zero net emissions as quickly as possible. This means, for example, worldwide, producing 50% to 85% of electricity by renewable means in 2050. This means getting out of coal as quickly as possible; getting large emission reductions in the building sector, where energy waste is enormous. Similarly in the transport sector, where emissions continue to increase in almost all countries, and this is particularly the case in Belgium. This also implies changes in the way soils are used in agriculture, in forests. And, given the time already lost, it may be necessary to use "negative emissions", i.e. a capacity to remove CO2 from the atmosphere. Either by massively planting forests or by exploiting techniques that are still far from being developed and pose a series of problems. Clearly, the national commitments which were announced shortly before the adoption of the Paris Agreement and which were therefore based - I would like to stress this point - on the old temperature targets, which had been adopted in 2009 in Copenhagen, where we were talking about staying below 2°C. But the situation has changed and it is now important to stay well below that figure, while making efforts to try not to exceed the 1.5°C global warming bar because we understood, yet without having at that time the IPCC special report published last October, even more eloquent in this regard, that we all had an interest - both for humanity as a whole and for the ecosystems on which we depend largely - in respecting this new ceiling. These national commitments, plans and communications were largely prepared and tabled before the Paris Summit. They therefore do not take into account the fact that the objectives have been strengthened. By definition, these plans, including the European plans and therefore the Belgian federal and regional plans, today are not up to these climate objectives. By aggregating all the national plans that have been tabled, we are located in the two rectangles that appear, here and there, by 2025 and 2030. It is much better than being on the upper orange trajectory, but it remains very far, you will agree, from the blue trajectory that would lead us to limit the warming below 2°C, and much further from the lower trajectory that would allow it to remain below 1.5°C. I come to the CFDD's opinion. I will summarize them very simply because they are available online on the CFDD website. The first to which I refer dates back to 1998. He said the Kyoto Protocol was just a step. The Commission draws attention to the fact that much larger emission reductions will be required after 2012, in the order of 50% by 2050. Why have these 50% become almost 100% today? Simply because we lost time and instead of starting to reduce emissions as early as 1998, 20 years ago, they were allowed to grow. As a result, today they need to be reduced much more, which is very difficult. If we had started earlier, it would be easier. In 1998, the Council listed the main reasons for the failure of Belgian climate change policy: - lack of political will; - lack of sufficient resources; - dispersion of competences; - lack of integration with other aspects of government action; - too little precise formulation of the objectives and measures envisaged; - lack of periodic evaluations and corrective actions. I am not sure that, on each of these points, extraordinary progress has been made. I have the honour of chairing the Energy-Climate Working Group for twenty years. I have only taken up the last few opinions on climate policy governance, in which we are talking about air quality policies related to climate change or mobility (thematic also explored but for which I have not taken any excerpts). For the 2013 opinion, I put a little extract here. For 2014 there is still a question of coordination and its need for success. Why didn't I put an extract for each opinion? It's very simple. The same thing is repeated in each opinion, namely the need for better coordination, more ambition and further action, and each time these opinions have largely remained a dead letter. Another opinion was issued in 2014, not only by the CFDD but also by the Economic and Social Council of the Brussels-Capital Region (ESCB), the Environment Council of the Brussels-Capital Region, the Minaraad, the Walloon Economic and Social Council (ESCB), the Walloon Council of the Environment and Sustainable Development (CWEDD). Unanimous opinions! What is the first thing this 2014 joint opinion says? There is a need to improve coordination between the various Belgian bodies (federal and regional) in order to ensure greater coherence in the transition policy. I don't read the rest, but you will have understood the message that is repeated in 2016, and in another 2018 notice. This was also repeated in another opinion of 30 May 2018, which I forgot to mention, concerning the National Energy-Climate Plan, which was discussed a few minutes ago. The result of this ignorance, and the fact that these IPCC opinions and reports have been put too long at the bottom of a drawer, without really reading them and taking them seriously, is the following. Look at the numbers. It is a document from the European Commission. By observing the expected percentage differences for Belgium's emissions in 2030, on the basis of current measures, we should be 21% above. It's shown here by a graph. The projections of Belgian emissions up to 2035, based on current measures, are in green. In red, you have two curves, which show the current objectives, which will have to be reinforced and imposed on Belgium by the European Union. You see how far we're from it. In 2030, we are talking about a gap of 17 million tons per year, which is not nothing. This drawing illustrates it in a certain way. I am sure there are so many other reasons to protect the climate and the environment. Today's speakers and previous and other speakers at other hearings have insisted on some of these points. We are talking about the climate, but we must not forget that we are in the middle of the sixth extinction, and that the erosion of biodiversity, for which climate change is one of the factors, but which is far from the only one, is another very serious problem too. I still want to say it. There are so many other reasons for ambitious climate policies. You have some ideas here. What gives me hope despite this situation is the action of the young people, of Greta Thunberg, but also of all the others, who show so much persistence and clarity of mind. Those I think have understood very well what this is about, much better than some women and some politicians unfortunately. It gives me hope and I hope you will hear them too. On the third website, you will find my dias. I am sure that within 24 hours, they will also be distributed by the House, if all goes well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1052x.u21	Thank you for your comments. Members who want to ask questions about this can do so now.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1052x.u22	Mr President, I am not going to go into the details, but I have the impression that there is something common to the three speakers. I'm putting Mr. Delbeke back in the game, too. In fact, they are very clear, but also very challenging, about the situation. They are taking stock of the situation today, at global, European and Belgian level. They indicate the objectives to which we have subscribed: to be far below two degrees Celsius and tend towards the maximum 1.5. First thing in common. The second thing in common is that they put us in the face of our responsibilities. It is now up to us to live up to this. The scientists have spoken, the NGOs have spoken, the European highs, or in any case those who have attended the European highs, have spoken. Young people, with grandparents and other generations, are on the street. Now it's up to us to do the job and it starts this afternoon. The Health Commission is considering a special bill. It will not be the only necessary text. If adopted, what I hope will be many more things that will be necessary behind, but at the very least, a first sign of response would have been given to all these scientists, politicians, young people, NGOs, etc. that are mobilizing. I will make a call, with these three interventions, to my colleagues. The special law is one of the tools needed to set the course. Do not seek an excuse, neither political nor legal. From a legal point of view - as I said last night in a conference to which Mr Thiéry also attended - a single sentence in the Constitution would allow us to adopt the text. From a political point of view, those who still have doubts about the need to adopt this type of heading and this special law express here the reasons why the three interventions are meaningless, so that we can have the possible answer from those who tell us that we must move forward. Actually, we don't have a choice. Or, we consider that the part is definitely lost and that this layer of insulation – I don't like the term too much but I understand what you're saying here. Since there is no camera here today, I can use this term, but I would not use it outside for reasons of image consistency. This layer is thickening and will pose enormous problems of postponement every year; as you have said, each year of postponement will be an additional difficulty. So, what are we waiting for? We have behind the option of the special law, figures it understands, an economic model tenable and even the most able to respond to the creation of jobs located at home. We have seen the figures, Belgium is the one that would benefit the most. So, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, the Open Vld and the CD&V, this is the time to explain why you may not agree with what was said by the three members of this morning's panel. As far as I'm concerned, I'm even more convinced than before I listened to them. I would also like to thank them for their interventions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1052x.u23	Mr President, Mr Van Nuffel, Mr van Ypersele, thank you both for your statement. In fact, every statement in itself is an element to talk about a whole morning or afternoon. There are two parts to the presentations that are incredibly important. On the one hand, you tell us again why this is an acute problem, although this has not been felt in this way for a very long time. It is an acute problem that young people feel right in that way. I compared it with the banking crisis, because we were also confronted with its acuteness at one time. At that time, we also dared to take very drastic decisions as a Parliament. We have even taken an unprecedented measure. We would transfer our powers to the government so that they could take emergency measures to save our economy and our banking sector. We have gone very far there in delegation of powers. You had to. That's what happened. We have also supported this, to some extent, because it had to be done. There was very little transparency about this. In recent years, our constitutionally complex country has also been working in a very untransparent way. For example, in back rooms, in a small consultative group without democratic debate, we discussed how we would arrange the Kyoto Burden Sharing. We have seen that, in the absence of a clear legal framework, international law enforcement in the United States, in the Netherlands, but also in the form of the Climate Court case, people go to court because they feel, supported by the figures put forward by Mr van Ypersele, that our country is not doing what it can do. I have some specific questions for you both. I have already put my questions to Mr Delbeke, but these are in line with that. Part of the discourse that I belong to a number of fellow parties is that our country is so small. That is actually an extension of what I have just heard as an echo of China's role: "Look at those charts, Europe is doing so well, isn't it? Even if we are among the poor in Europe, our impact as a country is so limited compared to the emerging countries. We can't save that climate, can we?"
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1052x.u24	"What is the importance that we, as a country, with the limited impact we have, would still be as ambitious as we know that this would harm our economy, with an important chemical cluster in this country?" That's not my discourse, I disagree. They are not my words, but it is a discourse of a number of colleagues on the right that I hear very often come back in debates. It was also expressed in this committee with regard to the authors of the climate case. "We are only responsible for a very small drop on that hot record, only for 0.0005 %," as if we are talking about cycling and doping of some riders. One can look at that ideologically or morally, that we have a moral duty to work together internationally to tackle something that goes beyond borders. With the figures you have published, what is your appreciation of this approach to the problem? We are a small country with a small impact, especially in the light of the figures just presented by Mr Delbeke, in comparison with China, for example. What is your feeling about the raw materials and products we have made in the emerging countries and the footprint that our country has, regardless of the purely territorial approach? I'm talking about the effective footprint of our citizens. After all, we know that that story does not say that it is at the highest in the world. We're in the top five in terms of effective ecological footprint. So I would ask you to appreciate the argument that we are such a small country with such a small footprint that matters so little. Do we have to chastise ourselves in order to achieve an ambitious goal? I hear you say very strongly that we must pursue a much higher and more ambitious objective because we cannot afford to interpret the Paris Agreement as being at least 1,999. No, we have to interpret that as intended, around 1.5 °C. What does that imply for our country? Secondly, I am very pleased to hear you say that the companies are actually with us. It's actually the politics in our country that's left behind. Those companies are on board, they also see the opportunities. You rightly spoke of net 80 000 jobs. If the companies are involved, there will also be support for citizens. People come to this hearing today as spectators, which doesn't happen every day. What is your appreciation of the fact that we are going to have such a difficult time coming to a new framework in the near future, we are going to have this debate in order to take a first step forward towards ambitious intermediate objectives that we need to implement the theory in practice? Mr Van Nuffel, I have heard a very warm plea from you for supporting the climate law. I fully share that. I have noticed that NGOs, for example 11.11.11, are proposing amendments. In my career as a Member of Parliament, I have seen something unseen: in the very short term, the Council of State has looked very widely at a climate law and has made suggestions on how to make it practical. In my career as a Member of Parliament and as a politician, I have never seen that before. I have read a lot of devastating opinions, which the majority did not agree to, even in this legislative period. I have never seen that the Council of State has taken the trouble to put forward six possibilities in such a short space of time with which this must be feasible. I should also like to mention the support from the public and from companies, with 150 000 signatories of Sign for my Future. In this context, I would like to ask you both about the climate law situation. Is that, in your opinion, a first and important step to be taken, or can we do without climate law? I am asking because yesterday I heard Mr Deketelaere, in particular, propose to work without a climate law. Mr Deketelaere did not wish to comment on the suggestions for amending the legislative proposal as he disagreed with the framework. Mr Deketelaere was, moreover, the absolute exception in the hearings, but since he was clearly an outlier, I am asking you the question. Mr Deketelaere said yesterday that he does not like the climate law as it now stands in the form of a special law. There was another interesting contradiction between what he said in the beginning and at the end, but since you were not present, I am not going to go into the technical aspects. This afternoon, we will continue to discuss this with our fellow Members. However, I found his opinion very pertinent. Several of the people we have heard, in particular Mr Deketelaere himself, have been involved in the past, for example, in the elaboration of the Kyoto agreement. Mr Deketelaere was then head of the cabinet of the Flemish ministers Crevits and Peeters. Together with me today you can see that we with our country, after years of working in this way, are not on track in that respect. That is why I would like to address my question very clearly to you, top experts and academics in that domain. Do we need a new framework or not? That is the political debate we are currently having. My position is very clear; we have already communicated enough about this. I'll ask you the question. Indeed, the Council of State clearly shows the will to work on a workable framework and we have also very quickly received positive responses from civil society. The text is written by academics. Several stakeholders indicate that they need such a framework, even if only legally. Some colleagues from other parties feel, despite all the statistics, that we do not need that framework. That is why I would like to stress that question. Of course, it is a large part of the political debate that we are going to have this afternoon. Considering the way we work in our country over the past decades, I ask you whether you are convinced that we can achieve the required results if we continue in the same way. I am asking the question so black and white, because I feel that we should also ask this question so explicitly, given the political debate we have now reached. Your answer gives us the opportunity to have a good debate with each other later on. I feel that a climate law is absolutely necessary. I make no secret of the need for a law that can change the fragmentation and way of thinking. I also believe the momentum is there. Those who do not agree have every opportunity to make concrete counter-proposals or propose adjustments. As far as the amendments and counter-proposals of those who are critical of a special law are concerned, we have not yet seen much. If you have any other specific proposals, I would like to hear them. They can also be part of the debate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1052x.u25	It's my turn to thank you for your various interventions. The findings are obviously clear to all. You are just confirming what we parliamentarians already knew, since in recent months we have focused 100% on climate issues. Nevertheless, your interventions, which reinforce us in the idea of moving things forward, have been very useful and remain important in order to be able to put us in a global framework and, above all, do not miss any element of the problem. I'm not going to go back to the details of your presentations. We'll be happy to have the slides, because the devil is sometimes in the details. But you will have understood that the hearings are also being held to ensure that we are not mistaken in our approach. We have a common objective enshrined in the special law, which we all hope to achieve. Ultimately, the only persistent anicroche is to know how to achieve this goal, when the special law has not received an enthusiastic opinion from the Council of State. Still. Had the Council of State not proposed six options for moving forward, its report would have been catastrophic. We consider two of the six proposals that we consider affordable: the amendment of Article 7a of the Constitution and a cooperation agreement. Mr Nollet and Mr Ecolo-Groen are in favour of amending the Constitution, and we are now in favour of the cooperation agreement. A survey has been conducted recently among the population. The question concerned a revision of the Constitution. We know that if we open a chapter, we'll have to open some more. Clearly, 39.9% of the sample seems to say that it is necessary to take the risk of opening the Constitution to move forward with the implementation of the Climate Act. 52% say no and 8% say no. I must inquire about the source of this survey, but in the meantime, it is a situation. Maybe we don't have to take these things into account, but I'm just saying we can't ignore this survey. Secondly, it is now known that the law as such poses a greater concern in the north of the country than in the south. It is also known that amending the Constitution requires both a two-thirds vote and a simple majority in language groups. If we move forward in this way, we may find ourselves, if I understand the present position of the Dutch-speaking parties, in a situation that would not allow us to move forward. On the basis of a number of considerations, while knowing that we all want to achieve our goal of moving forward with all the arguments and elements you have given us, what is your position on the problem we are facing today? Are you seeking a revision of the Constitution? I know that Mr. Van Nuffel touched a word on the air this morning, but I would like to hear your opinion as experts. I'm talking to the three of you. Were you in favour of the co-operation agreement or of amending the Constitution? That's a first question. Let me turn to my second question. The special law is an element. I no longer know which of you two said that the law alone was not enough, that it cannot work only with the special law. Having said that, we agree that it is a tool for achieving our goals. On the basis of the legal problem we are facing today, is it possible, in your opinion, to continue to operate on the basis of the ambitious resolution that we voted together in December without a climate law or, on the contrary, confirm the right raison d'être, the obligation to vote on this climate law so that it can be operational before the end of the legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1052x.u26	Mr President, given the daylight saving time, I will limit the number of questions I have. I will come back to one point that concerns me from the beginning, namely the reasons for the failure. Mr van Ypersele presented us with a dialogue with a 1998 opinion which points to the lack of political will, insufficient resources, the dispersal of competences, the lack of integration of climate policy into other aspects of government action, the vague formulation of objectives, the lack of evaluation, etc. In the end, all these shortcomings can be summed up by the lack of political will. It seems that politics did not take control of things and did not put the tools in place. What really missed? Is it a lack of awareness or do the forces of society hinder this progress? More prosaically, I have two questions about numbers. Mr van Ypersele, you mentioned - 45% emissions in 2030 compared to 2010. The climate law refers to a 2030 target compared to 1990. A little controversy was born. The PTB had taken back the 65 per cent figure reported by the original authors. The other figure was 55%. What would be the minimum number for you to enter? Of course, the maximum figure would be reached if we did the most we can. What figure would you choose for 2030, as a credible intermediate target? Below what number can we not go down? What is both ambitious and realistic? I don't know how to formulate things. This is indeed one of the great assets of the climate law: to set a goal. That's what the FEB refuses. They came to tell us that the climate was very good, as long as we weren't setting targets. Mr van Ypersele, you have also talked about 50-80% of renewable energy by 2050. It was on one of your dias. I'd like you to explain. I understood that the idea was to have zero emissions in 2050; it meant 100% renewable energy for me. But I may have missed something in the reasoning. I would like to come back to the issue, which I had already discussed in the first round, of the ETS system. It seems to me that there is a problem. This still accounts for 40% of emissions for our country; the stakes are not small. In view of the figures, I have the impression that this is not working, that we are not making sufficient progress. Mr. Delbeke said that non-ETS programming was even worse, but that was not enough as an answer. What will happen, with a 2.5% reduction per year in theory? I even have the figure of 1.74% decrease per year. Is this not far from sufficient? I am speaking here to Mr van Ypersele as much as to Mr Ypersele. Van Nuffel. This decrease varies around 2 per cent. Is a system that only trusts the market sufficient, or is it necessary to set binding standards for companies? Beyond the question of market efficiency in dealing with climate issues, the question remains: are the efforts of large companies sufficient in relation to the issues at stake? I conclude with two questions specifically addressed to Mr. Van Nuffel. Sir, when you went to the Prime Minister, did he hear you and, beyond that, did he make any formal commitments? Which ones? With regard to the concept of just transition, you have insisted on employment and the prospects are indeed encouraging. But socialism is not just about employment. Large investments will have to be made for the climate. Who will bear the tax and financial burden? Population or large businesses?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1052x.u27	Mr President, I shall speak quickly, thanking the speakers of the day and apologizing for my round-trips because other committees are taking place at the same time. You have scientifically expressed to us renewed inquiries already set out in the previous months, and in previous reports and contacts. The diagnosis is very precise. When young people are on the streets to tell us that there is an emergency, our raison d'être, as politicians, is to use emergency tools. The more we make progress on the issue, the more you explain things, the more I realize that the social sectors are also moving forward in thinking, whether they are the social partners, the stakeholders or people from civil society. They are well aware of the constraints. But I believe that constraint creates imagination. This constraint will be even greater if we do not anticipate it and if we cannot make strong decisions on the subject. I would say that the strong decisions on this matter are this afternoon in the Health Committee on the bill. Thank you for making the diagnosis, as I said.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1052x.u28	Mr President, as the time goes by, neither will I speak to speak nor ask questions to ask questions. First of all, I agree with Mr. Van Nuffel and I am admired by Mr van Ypersele's detailed analysis and strategic perspectives. The question that I wanted to ask was very well developed by Mrs Almaci and I will therefore not repeat it. This is the question that we are often asked when we are on the street, with citizens: if everyone does not do as we do, are our efforts not in vain? It is still quite difficult to convince the population. I have been in this federal Parliament for five years. I used to be in the Walloon Parliament. When I came to the Committee on Health, Climate, Environment and Sustainable Development, I became aware of a "sustainable development" law with a sustainable development plan to be tabled at the beginning of the legislature. The legislature ends. The law exists. But the sustainable development plan, I don't see the beginning yet. We won't have one in the next three or four weeks. There we have a law and we do not have a very productive follow-up. So, we're going to have a special climate law, to which I subscribe. I am not questioning our commitments at all. But can we still make it clear to the parliamentarians and governments who are going to set up that it is the concrete actions that must reinforce the ambitions that have been defined? Otherwise, we will still pass a lot of visuals, but I am very afraid that the young, the old and the world-wide climate event that takes place on Friday will not remain frustrated with these pious wishes. I particularly urge that we have a concrete, precise action plan, with targets per semester or year maximum, and that we analyse and evaluate the actions that have been proposed and implemented.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1052x.u29	All Members of the House have had the floor. I would like to add one more thing. We had planned this hearing, and I thought it was included in the invitation, and I am quite sure that it would be necessary to fix ourselves on concrete measures that we could take with Parliament. The explanations are important and very interesting, but they are more about the global framework and actually about the climate law, which has already been the subject of hearings in another committee. My question to both speakers is very brief. If there are three measures that you think should be taken by the Federal Parliament, what would they be? Then we can get inspired and get started with it. Of course, I do not know whether this can be achieved before the dissolution of Parliament or only after it can be incorporated. It is important, however, that such points should be formulated here and that we should be pushed in the right direction. I am happy to give the floor to both gentlemen.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1052x.u30	Mr President, Mrs Almaci, I must apologize for replying in French. Not out of disrespect, but to be able to give a nuanced answer. As many of your questions overlap, I will be able to group my answers together. I was first asked what was the point of moving forward on my own. This question is obviously essential. I would like to stress two arguments to urge you to set ambitions for Belgium. The first is that when we say that 80 000 jobs will be created in the transition, we are talking about jobs that are primarily local and very difficult to relocate; provided, of course, that we have European standards - we remember the discussions on the Detachment Directive - that guarantee the fight against social dumping within the Union. The jobs that we are going to create tomorrow through this transition must focus on two main priority areas, excluding ETS: transport - the European Commission is very clear about our serious delay, particularly in the redeployment of public transport - and construction. More than the construction of new buildings, it is the massive isolation of those who exist that prevails. According to the European Commission, we need to increase from 0.7% to 1.3% of renovated buildings in the coming decade. If I am not mistaken, this corresponds to 800,000 housing units to be renovated. All of this will be done through jobs that are mainly local and difficult to relocate. So there is a real interest in moving forward. When I talk about 80 000 jobs, I insist on it: these are net jobs. In other words, there are more local jobs to be created. In some sectors, however, job losses are likely to occur. This is where we come back to the right transition. It will be necessary to be clear with the sectors affected, but also to be able to accompany them. The second argument comes from our neighbours. Indeed, the Netherlands has had the courage to draw up a climate law that sets a course: 49% reduction. I think that is also the case in the United Kingdom. Clearly, that is possible. The Dutch law dates from December. I don't remember hearing the announcement of massive relocations in the days or weeks that followed. It is quite possible to move forward on a Belgian objective that is mainly non-ETS - I stress this point, even if I have already said so - since, in any case, the ETS has moved on to the European level. Setting a Belgian target in the ETS now has much less interest. Everything is managed at European level. We know that where there are economic threats, it is rather in the ETS sector if we move forward with objectives that are really too ambitious. We remember the Arcelor Mittal episode. This company has played on tax dumping, social dumping and environmental dumping. When Arcelor landed in the Walloon industry, it was by trading emissions. They took a lot of advantage of it before they left. Here we don't talk about this question. The ETS is European. In this area, Europe must guard against threats of social and environmental dumping. On the other hand, the question was not directly asked, but the World Trade Organization (WTO) was specifically named several times. I believe that we must at all costs avoid entering into a logic of unilateral protectionism which would be extremely damaging to the developing countries. I don't know if I said it anymore in my presentation, but my main job is to be Director of the Climate Coalition Advocacy, coordinated by the CNCD - 11.11.11, the dome of international solidarity organizations. It therefore seems to us important not to go back to a logic of protectionism at the expense of developing countries. There is, however, a series of instruments at the WTO, allowing unilateral action, which can be taken as long as its rules are respected. In 2009, just before Copenhagen, the WTO dispute settlement body issued a ruling stating that, for climatic reasons, border correction measures would be compatible with WTO rules. It's something we can work on. In addition, Professor Olivier De Schutter has done a great deal of work on potential solutions, for example, rather than entering into a trade war, based on products and product standards. A product would suffer the same consequences in Charleroi, Milan or Shanghai if it did not meet CO2 standards. I move a little away from the question of the Belgian or European objective, but there are possibilities, obviously not within the European Union, to protect against the threat of dumping. The question then arises of trade negotiations with countries that do not comply with the Paris Agreement. Mr Macron's France has submitted a very clear proposal to the Environment Council. It plans to refuse to negotiate trade agreements with countries that do not comply with the Paris Agreement. The question therefore arises of the resumption of trade negotiations with the United States, which, as a reminder, have not yet emerged from the Paris Agreement. They have announced, and we know Mr Trump's coups de com', their will to get out of it. His will is very clearly to engage in climate dumping. The second major question that many of you have asked me is the solution to be found in the opinion of the Council of State. For my part, I think I have been relatively clear. More than the means, I would like to stress the objective. Then I'll close by addressing the means, because I don't want to leave you hungry. The position established, I insist, by a broad spectrum of civil society (trade unions, environmental NGOs, development NGOs, citizen movements) is that a special law is a priority, but the most important one remains the objective. An instrument must be concluded before the elections, which can no longer be called into question. Hence our support for the option of a special climate law. Provided that a two-thirds majority and another in each linguistic community can be found - and this is a matter of political will, not legal findings - we will have a broad societal base, perhaps not unanimous, to move forward and not back. With regard to my concern about a cooperation agreement, I would point out that we are not opposed to it in principle. However, I would like you to reply to me - I will listen to your discussions this afternoon in the Committee on Public Health and the Environment - how you could get a cooperation agreement before the end of the legislature - God knows that for one or two generations it has been difficult to conclude on the subject of climate - and that you demonstrate to me its irreversible character. In this debate, the main thing is to set the course and then give ourselves the means to act. I fully agree with you, Mr Thiéry and Mr Senesael: this special law is not a fetish. What counts is what will come next. To put it differently, what will come after also counts and, at least, as much. Indeed, we need to move forward in the field of transport and buildings. I come back to the speech I delivered on December 2 in front of 100,000 people. You can discuss the means. Of course, Messrs. Van Hees and Van Quickenborne will not agree on this, but that is democracy. But on course, he doesn't argue anymore. The IPCC has made this very clear. The dual objective of the special climate law, for me, must be that. The course is set and no longer discussed, as far as Belgian competences are concerned. Secondly, there is a governance mechanism that avoids the ridicule in which Belgium has fallen on several occasions, in particular by disembarking late at COP 21, not with its distribution of efforts under the Paris Agreement, but with the distribution of its efforts under Kyoto+, which it should have established since 2013. In the face of the six proposals made by the Council of State, I do not think it is up to me to give a clear option. I will disagree with you, Mr. Thiéry. It is not a question of defining which articles of the Constitution will be open for revision. I am the press and I know that there is a debate, in this House, on "you open everything, you don't open anything or you open a part for the next legislature". It's not my field. I'll let you work on this. But now we're talking about now. The article is open for revision. Article 7bis of the Constitution is open for revision. Your predecessors agreed in the previous legislature that there was a possibility to discuss this article again. So if there is a two-thirds majority in this House to move forward, it is not a legal problem. It's a political problem. I call on parties that do not believe in it to explain why, but also to explain why, then, we do not advance before the elections; because I do not see any other solution today to move forward before the elections. It is obvious that the population, which is very strongly mobilized, is in a huge anger at the fact that there is... Obviously, decisions have been made. But major decisions and strong symbols that really change the deal, we didn't have one. I would also like to refer, and then I answer Mr. Van Hees at the same time as Mr Thiéry's question, the contacts we had with the Prime Minister's office. Indeed, we saw the Prime Minister on January 29. We were received by him for the first time for a very long discussion. We really got into the bottom of things. Yesterday, we had an appointment with him. He couldn't participate. I'm not going to hold on to him. It can be understood that at three weeks from Brexit, an appointment with the German Chancellor was considered a priority. We discussed with Prime Minister Rudy Volders' Chief of Staff. I cannot, of course, speak here on his behalf. It's up to him or the Prime Minister to speak. What I understood from his reading of the Council of State was quite close to the reading we had, that is, there are solutions. There's a way forward. The Council of State allows us to move forward. So the argument that it would not be constitutional and that we should postpone the discussions does not seem to me to be on the way. We prefer to maintain the "special law" vehicle. In addition, would a resolution be sufficient? Now I'm going to be radical: certainly not. In eleven years of working in development cooperation, how many fine resolutions this Parliament has been able to adopt! You all know that they reflect a political intention, often excellent, but that they are not binding. This resolution sets a course. Bravo for the work done and the broad societal base you have achieved, but what we need is that the course is set for the next generations and that we no longer discuss being as close as possible to 1.5 degrees and well below 2 degrees. I insist that there is no disagreement between Professor van Ypersele and me. There was a mistake on my part due to the speed of the presentation that I had to make. In any case, it is factual: the Paris Agreement says well:well below 2 degrees Celsius". Are there any forces that are braking? Yes, obviously. Should we counter them or seek to reassure them? I understand the workers in the oil, chemical and steel sectors who are worried about their future. Even farmers are highly dependent on oil and its derivatives. But this is a fair transition. How can we accompany them to bring them along with us in this transition rather than to go in strength? On the question of the just transition, we join together globally. Socialism, of course, is not limited to employment. We wanted far too much, around December 2, to oppose what the media called yellow vests and green vests. I note that yellow vests were on the street on December 2nd and January 27th. We are making a very clear statement: the transition must be fair. It can't be done on the backs of the most precarised. So we need a social vision. It would take an entire audition to deploy it, but I'll give you two examples. We cannot simply raise the excise duty on carbon if we do not have a plan for the redeployment of public transport. For me, the bruxellois, it's easy to get out of my car most of the time. But when you live in a small village at the bottom of the province of West Flanders, Hainaut or Luxembourg, where the bus passes once a day, of course you don't get out without a car. If you go to a lost village in Burgundy or Switzerland, I'm sorry, but the bus passes several times a day. So we can do without a car in these countries more easily than at home. This does not mean that the inhabitants do. The second element is a figure quoted by the CSC recently. I don't have the study here, but I could send it to you. It has been shown that every euro invested in the isolation of the buildings of the most disadvantaged people would be recovered in three years on health care. These are obviously different budgets. The question of responsibilities, etc. But we have such health-care problems due to the poor isolation of our social housing that today, every euro that will be invested to get out of energy poverty by isolating the buildings where the 10% of the population who are in a situation of energy poverty, and who have to choose between paying their rent and heating, will be recovered for our social security. And we all know that financing our social security is a real challenge for the future. I will conclude on the issue of the sustainable development plan, and I fully agree with what has been said. I recall that climate is one of the elements of sustainable development. Seventeen sustainable development goals have been adopted at the United Nations. We're here to talk about climate, but it's a societal vision. I said it in the introduction to my presentation. To answer your question, Mr President, I would almost like to answer you: three measures! Climate Law, Climate Law and Climate Law! But to be a little more complete, this is the first thing this Parliament could do as a special legislator. Contrary to what has been said, this is not a re-federalization. The special legislator is, in Belgian law, above the federal State and all the federated entities. That is why we must go through the Senate, which represents the Communities and the Regions. You are talking about concrete measures, but there are too many areas. I'm sending you our memorandum that reflects our claims on buildings and energy, but the tool to use is the National Energy-Climate Plan. What you can do as a Parliament is give a clear message to the government. It is not your role to make the National Energy-Climate Plan. We're back at the federal level. You could say: "At least for the federal level, we ask you to give the administration a mandate to move forward in line with the ambition that has been set, i.e. 55%". It will be up to the next government to adopt this plan, and to follow this ambition or not. At least, however, what was expressed in the resolution should be followed by facts on the part of the administration. The third stage, which will come after the elections, will consist, once we have a special climate law, of adopting decrees in the Regions. Here, a federal climate law will have to be passed that will translate the special climate law into a series of strictly federal measures. These will have to be followed in the following years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1052x.u31	Mr President, first of all I will answer Mrs Almaci's question on the arguments to be used in the face of those who ask why we have to act in Belgium when the rest of the world emits far more greenhouse gases than we do, and therefore has a much more important role in this respect. My list is not exhaustive. First of all, the Paris Agreement has made it possible – this is one of its great assets – to counter this kind of argument. For the first time, almost all countries in the world have ratified the Agreement in question. They agreed that there was a goal to be achieved. You know the temperature targets, but targets are also set in terms of CO2 emissions and decarbonisation by 2050 and shortly thereafter. I therefore believe that the argument that was very heavily used at the time of the Kyoto Protocol, particularly in this resolution voted in July 1997 by the US Senate, which stated that if China, their main competitor, were not subject to the same rules as the US, the US government could not go to Kyoto to sign an agreement to bind the US. As a result, they did not ratify the Kyoto Protocol, as it did not force all countries to do so. However, with the Paris Agreement, the situation has changed completely: almost all countries have submitted plans or at least announced their intention to act. Although perhaps not enough, it is already something! The argument considered is therefore largely out of date. If we follow China's example, the objectives of decarbonisation and deep clean-up of the functioning of the Chinese economy are included in the five-year plans. Without being fully realized – far from it! – I think there is undeniably an impetus that is given in a country of such importance, for example, as well as in many other countries. This argument has therefore become very difficult to maintain today. On the other hand, with all the technologies and means at our disposal, if we actually manage to produce, to move much more cleanly, to drastically reduce our carbon footprint, since part of the world's eyes are, if not on Belgium, on the European Union, I believe that we have a training capacity and an example far from negligible, whether in terms of innovative technologies – which can have positive export consequences – that would have reduced our climate or environmental footprint, or in terms of organisation of society, for example transport organisation or spatial planning. It is possible to set the right example in these areas. These examples could be inspiring for others. This could have a positive impact on our economy in the long term. I think that more and more companies and citizens of the world will understand that decarbonisation is on the way and that it is an opportunity to seize when it is still time to do so, when the train is not going too fast. I think these are in a part of the United States. Those who do not seize this opportunity will be overtaken. Those who will still produce products with a significant environmental footprint will simply not be able to sell them, export them. In a few years, no one will want big American cars with a thermal motor. It is important to act by showing that this is possible and by grasping all possible synergies. I did not mention this today, but know that an important part of the IPCC special report is devoted to synergies that can be found between the other sustainable development goals, the SDGs adopted in September 2015, and the climate target 13. The conclusion of this effort based on literature is that there is much more synergies to be found than the opposite (trade-off in English) and that it is in the field of energy demand in a cross-cutting way that we find the most of these positive synergies with the other SDGs, which are very large and which can be of greater interest to people and economic actors than climate protection, which is sometimes perceived as something very abstract in the long term that we are not confronted with everyday life. To Mr Thiéry's question as to my opinion on the two options indicated, I will answer very simply that it is quite outside my competence. I'll just say one little thing. I think that when we look at the Convention on Climate Change (to which we refer because everything we do is in that context), there is still a very important article, even if they are all. Article 2 contains the objective. This goal for a very long time was that of the Convention. It read as follows: "The ultimate objective of this Convention is to stabilize greenhouse gas concentrations so as to avoid dangerous anthropogenic disruption of the climate system." For a long time, we worked in this context with these words, a little vague and without any numbers. It was not until Copenhagen in 2009, 17 years later, to start seeing a translation of this into temperature targets. It was then necessary to wait until Paris in 2015 to see this objective expressed with these two temperatures that I will not repeat. This objective has an extremely important role to play. The fact that it is set at a high level in this article, both in the Convention and in the Paris Agreement, plays a very important role because it serves as a reference and basis for all the reflections that take place on the subject. Can what I just said inspire you in your reflections? I don't know, but anyway, I'm putting this on your table. The other thing that I would like to put on your table, which may be related to your reflections on the choice between these two possibilities or others, is related to the first question where I was talking about the importance of everyone's participation. We can compare our situation, even if this comparison is not flattering, with that of a sinking boat. Is it called the Titanic or is it a more anonymous boat traveling on the ocean? It is therefore essential that on this boat, everyone, whether with a bucket or with a teaspoon, scoop as quickly as possible. It is also important to try to fix the hole. There are different measures to be taken. Much discussion about how to organize and in the absence of clear rules on decisions that take precedence in different categories of passengers on board may lead to protracted discussions and an increase in water levels. In one way or another, we should try to circumvent or solve the obstacle at the heart of many of the climate problems in Belgium (and not in all the federated states): we do not know very well how to resolve disagreements other than by blocking. It's not up to me to tell you how to do this, but if you could find a way to avoid this situation, it would be a great step forward. To reply to Mr. Van Hees, 50 to 85% renewables around 2050, why not 100%? We could have a discussion after the session to discuss some details. I looked at the figures in the IPCC report. They are based on the literature evaluated for this report. We're going a little further than 85 percent. This is partly due to the fact that, in order to have zero net emissions, there is part of the effort that is being made, in many of the scenarios studied (the IPCC does not make these scenarios but evaluates those available in the scientific literature), in which there is a share of negative emissions and M. Van Nuffel was referring to it earlier. That is, they are systems that allow biomass to be used to collect the CO2 present in the atmosphere and burn it in a power plant that does not release CO2 into the atmosphere. If we have a share of electricity produced in this way (BECCS technology which nevertheless presents a lot of problems), we can still admit CO2 emissions for some time, for plants which are not yet amortised (not coal but rather gas), because these emissions would, in some way, be offset by the negative emissions obtained in this way. Whether it's a good idea or not is another question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1052x.u32	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1052x.u33	At the same time, 2050 is tomorrow. After Mr. Van Hees, I looked at the four standard scenarios presented in the summary for decision makers, at least in the IPCC report. We never reach 100% renewable energy. But be careful, the scale is that of the world. To achieve this result, it is better that those parts of the world that have the means to do so reach 100 per cent well before.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1052x.u34	We said 50-80%, and 50% is not very close to 100%!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1052x.u35	When taking these figures, it should be noted that they are largely based on this family of four standard scenarios presented in the summary for decision makers. As explained in our letter that I encourage you to read, the last of these four (P4) is a scenario that is a little "to please" the countries exporting fossil fuels extremely reluctant to any radical reduction in CO2 emissions, in particular. This figure of 50 is likely to come from this scenario. It should not be given too much importance because the P4 scenario does not allow you to stay below 1.5°C. It is a scenario that makes an overshoot, which exceeds for a few decades 1.5° before going down to 1.5 later, which is clearly less good than staying under 1.5, which is much better done by the first three typical scenarios. On the ETS, it is a shame that Mr. Delbeke, who is one of the dads of the ETS, is no longer here. Are the efforts of large companies sufficient? My answer is very simple. First, the ETS is one of the instruments on the table. Of course, taking measures on the side of energy efficiency standards, for example, is very important. The question of demand management and its reduction, as well as the substantial reduction in energy waste in all areas, is also very important. This can be achieved by means of standards, regulations. There is complementarity between different types of measures. The ETS is a machine that has a kind of thermostat to adjust the level. If we want more impact of the ETS on the 12,000 companies concerned (reference standard), we need to reduce the size of the envelope since it is the cap and trade system, so we need to reduce the heading. Indeed, the objectives will obviously become more and more binding, through the ETS and other complementary measures. It would be a mistake, in any case, to reject the ETS. Even if I'm not an economist, I've worked a lot and talked to economists. A very bad argument is often used against ETS. It consists of saying that the price of the tonne of carbon has been so low for a very long time, especially after the economic crisis. My answer is very simple: if it was so low, it was because efforts had already been made quite easily and, above all, the envelope had been too generous, so that no demand for quotas had been expressed. Since, thanks to the April or May reform last year, millions of old units that had been stored as a basis for speculation have been withdrawn from the market, prices have been multiplied by five - and this is probably only the beginning. This will increase efficiency. To return to the question of Mr. President, who am I to speak about three measures within federal jurisdiction? I'm still gonna try to do it. First of all, read all the opinions of the CFDD (Federal Council for Sustainable Development), which works precisely within this framework. Its site is cfdd.be or frdo.be. The opinions, in both languages, cover mobility, energy production, electricity networks, offshore wind turbines, climate governance, etc. There are therefore dozens and dozens of opinions, of which only one infirm part has been taken into account. They deserve to be considered, because they have often been the subject of consensus. Then, Mr President, you asked for concrete measures. In my view, there is a need to improve coordination between and within the levels of power. This would produce tangible effects. A third element lies in the entire international dimension. One of the things Belgium can do is to act within the European Union by advocating for more ambition, joining this coalition for a higher ambition that it did not want to join at COP24. Measures like this can also be very supportive. I may not have answered all your questions in detail, but I hope I have answered the essentials in any case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1052x.u36	Thank you for the many answers. I'm looking into the room to see who else wants to respond. Officially, Members of Parliament have the last word. However, that rule does not need to be used if they do not wish to do so or if the answers were sufficiently clear. In any case, the slides should still be delivered, so that we can look into the details and take them with us during future work. All I have to do is thank everyone for their attentive presence and cooperation in the special committee. If all goes well, we will meet again on 26 March 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-13-54-commissie-ic1052x.u37	Mr President, I would just like to point out that my slides are in principle being published online on the web page I have indicated (climate.be/vanyp/conferences).
