ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1019x.u1	Minister, one of my two questions was addressed to the Minister of the Interior, but the services brought them together so that they could both be addressed to you. The press has recently released figures on the filing of complaints of domestic violence. We are talking about 56 complaints a day in Belgium, 40 of them in Wallonia - the majority of them are filed in the district of Liège. The reports also point to the slow pace of justice, despite the circular "zero tolerance". The divisional prosecutor at the Liège Public Prosecutor's Office justifies this slowness in one of the reports, citing a shortage of staff. Thus, precisely in Liège, only three magistrates deal exclusively with cases of domestic violence. It's obviously not enough. Beyond this, the issue of protection must also be considered. One victim explained that she had filed her first complaint in 2011. Five years later, while she had not yet received any news, she was transported to the emergency room in a coma, with fractured ribs. Finally, the situation was taken seriously, but it would have taken another year before the victim obtained protection and a judgement was handed down. Several testimonies denounce the difficulty of filing a complaint. First, the conditions are not simple. Secondly, there must be serious evidence - the doctor's or hospital's certificate - while all too often the first acts of violence are not visible in the form of traces of beatings. However, the dangers do exist. A victim reported that his companion was known to the courts for similar acts, but that, without medical clearance, the police could not do anything. She added that, in any event, the complaint would not succeed and that any action would therefore prove unnecessary. We're talking about 33 femicides in 2018 in our country. I note that 70 per cent of cases were closed and only 11 per cent of convictions were handed down. It is estimated that in Belgium 50,000 acts of violence are reported annually - this corresponds to 135 reported incidents per day. Minister, do you have any exact figures? Do you confirm those mentioned in the press? Do you intend to provide additional means to speed up judicial proceedings in the area of domestic violence and to achieve the zero tolerance objectives shared by Judge Bourguignon in Liège, an area with the highest rates of domestic violence? Will you develop a specific strategy, taking into account the differences between geographical areas and, in particular, the difficulties observed in the district of Liège? Finally, what do you intend to put in place to further protect victims during judicial proceedings?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1019x.u2	Mrs Matz, the fight against domestic violence has been a priority for both police and justice and for the Communities since the beginning of this Parliament. I refer you to the comprehensive security briefing note, the National Integrated Police Security Plan and the zonal security plans, which all define domestic violence as a priority. I would also like to refer to the National Action Plan to Combat All Forms of Gender-Based Violence, which contains hundreds of measures developed with the Communities. The National Security Plan places a strong emphasis on police training; not only the basic training, but also the training offered in provincial police schools, in terms of morals and violence within families. A proper qualification of the facts is essential. Police follow-up consists mainly of a second visit after the statement - a visit by the police or other services. However, on the basis of the file and the first statements or observations, there are often legal doubts. It is invested in specialized procedures to dispel them. Flanders has opened Family Justice Centers, where victims can go to tell their story and receive support and reception, before being reoriented through a "chain" approach led by an interdisciplinary team. On the Francophone and Brussels side, such an approach, including case coordination, is also being considered. As part of an oral question, I am not in a position to request updated figures from the statistical analysts of the public prosecutor's offices. So I can't check the ones you're quoting. According to previous data, it is rather a question of a 50% distribution for Flanders, 40% for Wallonia and 10% for Brussels. Finally, with regard to justice in particular, I would like to refer you to the many ongoing initiatives that have been taken by the College of Attorneys General. I am thinking of the development of an instrument to assess the risks and of the new circular COL on the prohibition of residence - including a new mandate for legal assistants to supervise the perpetrator - but also of consultations between specialized magistrates and the police on the reception of victims. As part of the evaluation of the National Action Plan to Combat All Forms of Gender-Based Violence, a tangible and updated overview will be provided, based on a next political cycle, by the following Government. Of course, it is regrettable that, despite all these efforts and initiatives, some victims still feel less well received, recognised or assisted. Nevertheless, this aspect may be difficult to avoid, even if we must make every effort to reduce this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1019x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answer. Of course, I am aware of the existence of strategic tools in terms of security policy, the priority of which is in particular on domestic violence. However, I remain extremely concerned about the number of cases that remain pending before courts and tribunals and in police stations. If so many victims do not feel listened to and heard when describing what they have suffered, I think there is still a lot of work to be done. Moreover, in the district of Liège, the lack of magistrates to deal with all these cases is deplored. This is not the result of an exchange of good processes - as may happen in the College of Attorneys General - but rather of a lack of resources to be allocated to these policies. I hope that the next government will be committed to putting this issue at the centre of its concerns, giving sufficient resources, both police and judicial, to combat this scourge.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1019x.u4	Question No 28256 by Mrs Barbara Pas is transformed into a written question. Question No 28344 by Mrs Laurette Onkelinx is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1019x.u5	Minister, in line with international recommendations and with the implementation of the recommendations of the KCE report published in October 2017, the Interministerial Conference on Public Health decided on 26 March 2018 to launch a Task Force to develop a vision and a phased implementation plan to improve care for detainees. Of course, as Minister of Justice, you are closely involved in the reform and are also invited to the meetings of the IMC Public Health. The aim is to ensure that healthcare for prisoners reaches the same quality as for the rest of the population. Figures recently requested by Flemish MEP Yasmine Kherbache show that the term that prisoners have to wait for a conversation with the psychologist sometimes takes longer than the sentence they effectively serve. For example, there would be only 19 full-time employees of the Centre for Mental Health for more than 6 200 prisoners in all prisons in Flanders and Brussels. Research also shows that inmates using drugs have been diagnosed psychiatrically more often than non-drug users in their lives and that drug use significantly increases the risk of relapse. In short, in the area of prison health care, we can only conclude that the criminal execution policy is inadequate, with all the consequences, including in the area of recidivism. Firstly, has the task force set up in March last year produced any results? Secondly, how many times has the IMC met since then and how many of those meetings were you present at? Thirdly, who is responsible for coordinating the mental health care of the detainees? Fourthly, who has eyes and eyes on the physical and mental health of prisoners and their possible history with drugs? Fifth, do there exist waiting lists for mental health care in prison? Who decides whether or not to visit the doctor or the psychologist? Sixthly, how many percent of the prisoners currently in prison are recidivist? Seventhly, do you recognise the link between the risk of recidivism and receiving or not receiving mental health care during the detention period?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1019x.u6	Ms Lambrecht, the IMC Public Health of 26 March 2018 commissioned the creation of a task force to develop a strategic plan for the reform of penitentiary healthcare. Since spring 2018, four groups have been meeting each month around one facet of the problem. There is a working group on care and detention, a technical-financial working group, a group that focuses on policy choices and, finally, a working group that looks at the framework conditions necessary for good penitentiary health care. At the end of January, the results of the work will be discussed at the Task Force with all relevant Cabinets and Administrations, including those of the relevant Community and Regional Ministers. A new IMC meeting will follow. The exact date of that meeting has not yet been communicated to me by the Minister for Health. Today, the Directorate-General for Penitentiary Institutions coordinates the health care of the detainees. The Communities are responsible for preventive health care and well-being. They also exercise those powers. The prison medical service sees every inmate on entry and draws up a history of his health situation. If necessary, the prisoner shall be referred to a specialised department or followed internally. During detention, an inmate may contact the medical service at any time or request a consultation with a prison doctor, specialist, psychiatrist or dentist. If there is a serious psychiatric problem, the prisoner may be forwarded to one of the prison facilities where a care facility is present. It includes a psychiatrist, a psychologist and a psychiatric nurse. For inmates with a history of drugs substitution treatment is possible within prison and specific consultations are also organised. In addition, there are several establishments in which, in cooperation with external services, a drug-free unit is set up by the Communities. There are no waiting lists with the prison doctors. The waiting times for specialists are similar to those in the free society, at least as far as non-urgent consultations are concerned. Urgations are always taken to heart. Cooperation with hospitals and emergency departments is part of the regular operation. For a consultation with the mental health staff there are waiting lists. I cannot give you a percentage of the number of inmates who have received an increase in the sentence today due to legal repetition. However, it has been scientifically demonstrated that an adapted treatment during detention or post-penitentiary supervision leads to a reduction in the risk of recurrence.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1019x.u7	Minister, from your answer, I say that there are no problems.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1019x.u8	Mr President, Minister, the Information and Opinion Centre on harmful sectarian organisations was established in 1998 following the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry "to develop a policy to combat the illegal practices of sects and the danger they pose to society and to people, particularly minors". Both the Centre and the Public Prosecutor's Office have been informed of reports of alleged paedophile acts committed by members of Jehovah's witnesses. Victims are also concerned about the presence of sex offenders who are still active in this community. The Centre would have sent you a letter last December for the Chamber to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry to clarify this situation and to take the necessary steps to put an end to it. This was done in Australia, where the commission established the existence of 1,006 alleged rapists, including hundreds of recidivists, but also, more recently, in the Netherlands, where the community of Jehovah's witnesses has 25,000 members, an equivalent number to that of this community in Belgium. Without imputing such facts to the entire community, far from that, perhaps we should be concerned about this alerting by the Information and Advisory Centre on Harmful Sectarian Organizations. Minister, do you confirm that you have collected information about this? Do you have any additional information from the public prosecutor's office? Is there any information? We will need to know whether we should set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry. This is another debate. The main question is how the judicial authorities take this situation into account. Were any measures taken or envisaged to protect certain children who would be likely to be victims of such acts if they were confirmed? Here are most of my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1019x.u9	Mr.President, Mr.Maingain, on September 11, 2018, I was informed by mail and e-mail of the report of the Center for Information and Advice on Harmful Sectarian Organizations on the Treatment of Sexual Abuse of Minors in the Organization of Jehovah's Witnesses. My services immediately contacted the Centre and ensured that the Prosecutor's Office had also been informed of the report. That was indeed the case. In the meantime, the General Prosecutor's Office in Brussels has forwarded the report to the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office. On December 5, I also received the recommendation of the Centre's board of directors, recommending that Parliament investigate the functioning of the internal rules of the organization of Jehovah's witnesses and its possible influence on the willingness of persons to report acts of paedophilia. The establishment of own courts by religious communities for ordinary cases has no legal basis. Therefore, this type of court cannot replace the courts and tribunals of our country's judicial order. On Wednesday, 9 January 2019, a meeting was held between the Brussels Public Prosecutor's Office, the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office, the Federal Judicial Police and the Centre, which explained the contents of this report. The Federal Prosecutor's Office is now examining the judicial consequences of the facts mentioned in the report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1019x.u10	Minister, thank you for your precise answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1019x.u11	Mr President, Minister, the Prisons Action Plan 2015 has provided for the establishment of two special deradex sections at Ittre Prison and Hasselt Prison. Each has a capacity of 20 places and 26 surveillance officers are assigned to their management. They also have staff from the psychosocial services. As of 1 April 2017, the Special Section of Ittre reportedly welcomed sixteen deradicalized prisoners – the expression is not the happiest – and that of Hasselt ten. Besides these sections, satellite prisons have also been planned for this type of mission: Lantin, Andenne, Ghent and Bruges. Today, trade unions and associations ask us to learn about the need to evaluate the work done in these deradicalization wings. In particular, they denounce the ease of communication between these detainees, the lack of a real deradicalization programme within these sections, a lack of staff and training and, finally, the lack of follow-up on prisoners leaving prison. In committee on April 26, 2017, you announced that "the evaluation of these specialized wings is being finalized. The results of the latter are therefore not yet known." A year and a half later, we do not yet have full information on this assessment, which has led the criminologist, Mrs Marion Van San, in a recent reflection published by the Brussels Institute Itinera, to say that there may be grounds for denouncing the lack of evaluation of deradicalisation projects. Minister, can you tell us today about the results of the evaluation carried out for the experiments already carried out? As of January 1st of this year, how many radicalized prisoners are in the sections of Ittre and Hasselt? When will the deradicalization work of these sections and satellite prisons be redefined accurately? How many Islamic counselors and psychologists are currently accompanying prison officers in their mission? Is the framework for these sections complete? Does every prison have a radical referent? Has the status defining the rights and obligations of religious and philosophical officers and advisers been established? In a commission of 26 April 2017, you stated that a "Royal Order on the Status of Chaplains of Recognized Worship, Councillors of Recognized Worship and Moral Counselors is currently being prepared. It will include provisions on the rights and duties of such persons." What about today? I did a search at the Belgian Monitor, I didn't find any trace of it, but maybe this order was taken. Will staff benefit from initial but also continuing training? The Training Centre for Prison Personnel (CFPP) has seven-day radicalization training, but according to the officers in place, this is insufficient in terms of their task of monitoring and analysing changes in the behaviour of prisoners. Also in the Commission on 26 April, you also stated that "in terms of staff training, we are investing mainly in the widest possible basic training for all staff members. Other training modules for further training are still under consideration." What about today? Finally, what kind of follow-up do radicalized prisoners benefit when they leave prison? Is it mandatory or optional? Is this follow-up carried out in consultation with the federated entities?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1019x.u12	Mr President, Mr Maingain, the special Deradex deradicalisation sections are being evaluated. The purpose of these sections remains "containment is commitment - standardization". As of 1 January 2019, eight radicalized detainees were in the Deradex section of Hasselt and fifteen in Ittre. For the Deradex sections, the criteria have already been defined in the past and are clear with regard to the profile of detainees. For satellite prisons, the administration is working on a new framework, in consultation with the Communities, to define the mission and vision for satellite establishments. The cadre of Islamic Councillors consists of 27 full-time equivalents; 34 persons have been appointed and two applications are under way. With regard to the legal basis relating to the status of chaplains, I confirm that it was voted and signed before the Christmas break at the plenary session of the House of Commons on 17 December. For the time being, royal orders are being prepared in conjunction with the Minister of Budget. In Ittre, a psychologist and a social worker were hired and the care of Deradex detainees is distributed among those in the psychosocial service who have received training. Regular consultations are held between the various services during detention. In 2015, staff received extensive training to transform the Deradex sections into centres of expertise. An e-learning module on radicalization in prison is completed and will be deployed in two pilot prisons in early 2019 starting with Malines prison from today. I personally checked this morning for the launch of this module. A reclassification plan for prisoners is drawn up with the supervision of the psychosocial service of the prison. Taking into account the various problems, he proposed the introduction of appropriate measures. Before the radicalized prisoners leave the prison, there is a flow of information informing all relevant security partners and the Communities. Local task forces always receive a report from SPS, OCAM and VSSE. The Communities transfer the files to the extra-mural support services. The judicial services are empowered to provide more detailed information on post-detention follow-up.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1019x.u13	Minister, you have not answered my question as to whether every prison has a radicalist referent. On the other hand, I would like to thank you for the factual elements that you have brought that deserve our attention. I hear we're still being evaluated. I recall that in April 2017 we were already talking about the evaluation of the first implementations of the specialized sections to accommodate deradicalized or deradicalized prisoners. Could you tell me when this evaluation can be completed? I would remind you that this was already discussed in 2017. Since then, almost two years have passed. It would be interesting to know whether the prison administration or other services had set concrete targets. As a number of inmates are now leaving the specialized sections, there may be a need for a specific assessment. Do you have any information on this?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1019x.u14	Evaluation is also a permanent matter as the provisional or definitive release of some radicalised people teaches us, from experience, a great deal about cooperation with local task forces and integrated security cells. As regards isolation and the question of who should or should not be the subject of it, I think I can say that we will have new information in the coming months. Indeed, following the tragedy that took place in Liège before the summer of 2018, we decided to develop an even better detection system (Selex and OCAM cooperation). If we are, you and I, still there at the end of March, it would probably be appropriate for you to ask me again about this. If this is not the case, other people will deal with this case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1019x.u15	Minister, "The situation in Bruges prison is poignant. A thorough renovation is intrusive. Moreover, the staff cannot meet the basic needs of the detainees. These are really medieval situations." With that hard message, ACV Public Services recently came out. According to the union, the list of repairs is long. No less than 86 urgent repairs would be required in prison. In some cases these are minor repairs, but others are quite serious. In the kitchen almost nothing would work, so no food can be prepared in prison. The result is serious additional costs because an external firm, smaller portions and therefore also resentment among the prisoners is called upon. The industrial laundry, where laundry is done for three prisons, has also had its best time. An external firm is also called upon to do so. That brings the wet clothes in boxes to the prison to dry, which naturally raises questions about hygiene. Finally, research would have shown that there is an urgent need for renewal of the sewage system. Mr Minister, first of all, how could it have happened in Bruges? Secondly, who feels responsible for this malpractice? Thirdly, who does what and against when?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1019x.u16	Mrs Lambecht, during a visit to the Bruges prison, I have indeed found that, despite the relatively recent construction date, this facility already has serious defects. The problems are discussed at regular intervals by the competent departments of the prison system and the Government of the Buildings. Renovation works have already been carried out or they are planned. Let me give you some examples. The renovation of main sewers, amounting to EUR 1.8 million including VAT, will start soon. The replacement of all electrically powered ports, amounting to EUR 5.8 million, should be completed by August 2019. The renewal of part of the showers will continue in 2019. The problems in the laundry are addressed in 2019, by the planned purchase of new appliances. There is this year the launch of a study assignment for the total renovation of the water plant and the outdoor installation, such as the walks and fences. Finally, the necessary adaptation works will be carried out in the kitchen this year. Given the size of the layout and the complexity of the building, each repair and improvement has a serious cost. Financial and human resources at the Buildings and the Justice Department are limited, but as you can see, there are still a lot of work in progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1019x.u17	Thank you, Minister, for the encouraging words that it will go forward. I hope that after the recent recast, it will be easier now that you have jurisdiction both for the Justice Department and for the Government of the Buildings.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1019x.u18	Minister, on 16 March 2018, the Council of Ministers took the decision to break the agreement with the Islamic World League and the Islamic Cultural Centre of Belgium (ICCB), on the concession of the Great Mosque of Brussels. This decision followed the recommendations of the commission of inquiry into the attacks of 22 March 2016. These recommendations sought to put an end to the interference of foreign States with the Islam of Belgium, in this case with that of Saudi Arabia. The one-year notice period, provided for in the event of a breach of this agreement, will soon expire. This deadline was to be used to set up a new structure with new partners, possibly involving the Belgian Muslim Executive, and establishing a lasting relationship with the Belgian authorities while respecting the laws and traditions of our country, which convey a tolerant vision of Islam. Meanwhile, the Great Mosque had filed an appeal with the Council of State against the decision to break the concession. The Council of State rejected the appeal, finding it incompetent, but we do not know whether an action has been brought before the ordinary courts. Moreover, the Great Mosque, in any case its management committee, must comply with the laws applicable to the NSAs and deposit its annual accounts, which it has again done more for the years 2016 and 2017. In addition, as the minister in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments, it is up to you to negotiate the break-up compensation which the Belgian State will have to pay if necessary. Minister, can you let me know the status of this matter at two months of notice? What is the status of the negotiations? Was there any other recourse from the Great Mosque? If so, what is the status of this procedure? What is the status of discussions for a resumption by another partner that would comply with the recommendations of the commission of inquiry into the attacks? What about the amount of compensation that the State should pay to the World Islamic League, including for work in the building? What are your reactions to the non-filing of the annual accounts of the Great Mosque? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1019x.u19	Mr Dallemagne, after the decision of the Council of State on 13 September, my services were able to convince the World Islamic League to change its shoulder rifle. It finally confirmed, in a formal letter, that it marked its agreement on the breach of the concession, which it would like to see implemented as soon as possible. It is also notified that the financing of the Islamic and Cultural Centre of Belgium by the World Islamic League would cease on 31 December 2018, which actually took place. I would like to point out that at no time has there been any mention of financial compensation granted by the Belgian State for the early termination of the concession. Since then, the ICCB and the World Islamic League have been loyal, in order to allow the correct and orderly application of this rupture. They also committed to meeting all their financial obligations vis-à-vis CICB employees. In the meantime, these employees have received their letter of termination and all the employees housed in the Great Mosque complex have been formally informed that they will have to leave the building by 31 March at the latest. A convention for precarious occupation, between the Régie des Bâtiments and the ASBL "Collège de l'Ecutif des Musumans de Belgique", manager of public resources made available to the Executive, was envisaged. The purpose of this Convention is to cover the period during which a new technical coordination ASBL responsible for the administrative, technical and financial management of the common parts of the Greater Brussels Mosque is to be established. It is with this new ASBL that a new convention will be signed and approved by royal decree deliberated in the Council of Ministers. It goes without saying that this new concession will be drafted in such a way as to take account of the recommendations made by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry. The file is therefore changing positively. Of course, my services will do their utmost to give satisfaction to the early release of the premises.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1019x.u20	Minister, thank you for that answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1019x.u21	Mr President, Minister, according to European statistics, Belgium is experiencing ten escapes per ten thousand prisoners. In Belgium, unlike many of our neighbours, escape is not a crime. An escapee may be prosecuted only for the additional offences he commits in order to escape: hostage-taking, violence, destruction of equipment or even theft if he takes with him his uniform as a prisoner. The legis ratio of this situation is the idea, inspired by the 19th century romantic and post-revolutionary, that one cannot ask a man to renounce his natural aspiration to freedom. Minister, if I can understand this philosophical vision a little over-yearly, it does, however, raise questions. Consider, among other things, the significant costs of finding escapees. As I said, many other countries have decided to take action in this area. In France, for example, simple escape, committed without violence, break-in or corruption, has been punishable by three years' imprisonment and a fine of 45,000 euros since 2004. Minister, what is your position on this issue? What reasons can they explain that no changes to the legislation have taken place to date? To be complete, do you have any information on the deterrent effect of laws such as the one mentioned above in France? Finally, can you provide us with an estimate of the annual costs of escapes in our country, if any? If this does not exist, would it be possible to calculate these amounts in the future? I know that part of this answer is the responsibility of your colleague from the interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1019x.u22	Mr President, Mr Flahaux, the draft new Penal Code that we have prepared and that is completed provides for the criminalization of the escape of detainees. An inmate's escape will be punishable by a level 2 sentence, i.e., one to three years' imprisonment or a penalty under electronic supervision, labour or probation. If use is made during the escape of violence or threats, then there will be a level 3 sentence of three to five years' imprisonment. If the escape took place without any violence or threat and the escaped person spontaneously visits the prison or a police service within 48 hours of the escape, the person concerned will not be charged. Remorse is a cause of excuse and exemption from punishment. I have no information on the deterrent effect of laws, such as the one mentioned above in France. Escape costs are not accounted for separately. They are part of the usual operating costs of the judiciary and the police. On the other hand, I can still inform you that in 2017, an inmate escaped from an ordinary secure prison. No cases of escape are to be mentioned for the years 2016 and 2015, according to the figures of the prison administration. Let's touch the wood! The other escapes, on average a little more than ten per year, have taken place since a prison offering an open regime, for example Saint-Hubert, Marneffe, Hoogstraten or Ruiselede.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1019x.u23	Minister, thank you for your answer. I see that a development is under way. As I understand it, the reform of the Penal Code is proposed but not yet voted. Unfortunately, we are in a somewhat special period. I hope that this can be done given that you will probably still be Minister of Justice in day-to-day affairs long after the elections if the government takes some time to form. In any case, I hope that this Code can be adapted. This is something that amazes the population very much because we do not understand the absence of pain. But you responded very positively to my request.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1019x.u24	Mr President, Minister, this question is a little different from the previous one. On the contrary, it is an element that may encourage prisoners to stay in prison. Of the 76,000 people affected by the imprisonment of a relative in Belgium, 12,000 are minor children. In 80 per cent of cases, the father is incarcerated. Of these, one in two would never visit his detained parent. Visiting a parent detained in prison is often a very difficult situation for children. In fact, few infrastructures are put in place especially for them. The bar of Liège decided to mobilize to make this moment a little more user-friendly, in particular by bringing toys to the prison of Lantin. Minister, can you take stock of this situation? In all our prisons, which ones include specific infrastructure for the care of children? What kind of infrastructure is this? Is it planned to provide all prisons with such infrastructure? What is your reaction to the Liège Bar Initiative? Would it not be appropriate to follow the example set by the Bar Association of Liège by providing toys to all prisons in the country?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1019x.u25	Mr President, Mr Flahaux, child-parent visits are organised as provided by the law of principles. It does not prescribe any specific organizational elements. However, at the national level, both in the North and in the South, projects are being supported to facilitate the organization of such visits, with a view to limiting the effects of detention and promoting the reintegration of the detained person with a view to maintaining a good relationship with his or her family environment. At the local level, various projects are set up with external partners, both the Communities and some non-profit organisations. Our role as facilitator and mentor of the latter makes it possible to achieve concrete achievements. In general, all institutions take initiatives as part of the children's visit, such as a children's corner in the visiting room, supervised activities, kindergartens, a suitable waiting room, facilities for family visits, and appropriate sanitary facilities. I can only welcome initiatives such as that taken by the Bar Association of Liège. Nevertheless, an arbitrary flow should be avoided and this type of initiative should be attempted with the help of our external partners who organise child-parent visits.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1019x.u26	Minister, thank you for that answer. In this context, there is a need to encourage the various directorates of prisons to increase initiatives, such as clubs or other services, which could also help this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1019x.u27	Mr President, Minister, Belgium signed on 8 November 2018 Protocol No 16 to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, signed in Strasbourg on 13 November 2013 and entered into force on 1 August 2018 for the ten Member States that have ratified it. Belgium has yet to ratify this protocol, which sets up an optional mechanism allowing the highest courts of the Contracting States to address to the European Court requests for advisory opinions on matters relating to the interpretation or application of the rights and freedoms defined by the Convention and its protocols. At present, the Belgian courts cannot yet make use of this mechanism, in the absence of ratification of Protocol No 16 by Belgium. Mr Minister, is the ratification of Protocol 16 allowing the entry into force of Protocol 16 possible in day-to-day affairs? If so, can you commit yourself to ratifying this protocol before the end of the legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1019x.u28	Mr President, Mrs Matz, since the protocol was signed on November 8, 2018, before the current business period, we are making every effort to finalize the ratification in the coming months. Ratification of this protocol will allow for a dialogue between the Court and our other courts: the Court of Cassation, the Council of State and the Constitutional Court. Since the project is mainly procedural and without budgetary implications, we hope to be able to continue the procedure and submit it to the Council of Ministers shortly and for an opinion to the Council of State. Prior to my day-to-day business, my administration had already finalized the drafting of the draft bill approving the protocol and its explanatory memorandum. The draft law is still to be submitted for approval to the Council of Ministers and for advice to the Council of State, before being submitted to Parliament for approval. However, due to the tight agenda, we cannot be sure that we will be able to table the instrument of ratification before the end of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1019x.u29	Minister, thank you for your answer. I hope that the few months that separate us from the election deadline will allow you to submit the bill to the Council of Ministers and, in the meantime, to our assembly. Indeed, even if these are procedural aspects, they are important to our jurisdictions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1019x.u30	Minister, in March 2017, you presented your 2015-2016 report to the Senate on Belgium's litigation before the European Court of Human Rights, and it comes to my mind that the debate that took place in the Senate Committee had been interesting and constructive. During the Belgian Presidency of the Council of Europe in 2015, you also undertook to prepare these annual reports and to strengthen the role of the Federal Parliament in the implementation of the Convention. We have read the 2016-17 report but, unless I am mistaken, there was no presentation of this report, either in the House or in the Senate. Similarly, you had announced the establishment of a human rights institute at the beginning of the legislature, but we do not know the state of progress. When are you planning to return to Parliament to present the new Belgian case reports to the European Court of Human Rights? What is the status of the establishment of a human rights institute? When do you think he'll be able to see the light?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1019x.u31	Ms Matz, the presentation in the Senate of the 2016-2017 report on Belgium's litigation before the European Court of Human Rights will take place this Friday, February 22, 2019 from 2:15 p.m. On this occasion, the 2017-2018 report will also be presented. My administration is finalizing this one. It will be communicated to you as soon as possible. In keeping with the government's commitments, I have worked during this Parliament on the progressive establishment of a national institution. A draft bill to that effect was ready. The approach developed consists in the establishment of a national human rights institute in several stages. The first step should be the establishment of a federal human rights institute to cover all matters within federal jurisdiction. This solution made it possible to quickly set up a structure, while at the same time aiming, in a second stage, at inter-federalization, by concluding a cooperation agreement between the federal State and the federated entities. This inter-federalization would ensure full coverage of human rights and thus complete the Belgian landscape of protection and promotion of fundamental rights. Such an approach would also meet the requirements of the Paris Principles. I hope to find partners in the Justice Committee in order to bring this project to a successful conclusion after the end of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1019x.u32	Minister, thank you for these answers. So you're going to introduce a bill on the establishment of the institute and try to find partners to help you implement it. For our part, this will not be a problem, according to the modalities. It is true that inter-federalization is absolute nirvana in terms of human rights. But as a first step, we need to move forward on federal issues. Thank you for that answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1019x.u33	Mr. Chair, Mr.Minister, I was asking you last week about the Fortis case, regretting the lack of pugnacity of the Public Prosecutor's Office and the inability of the judiciary to arrive at the res judicata in a case related to financial crime. Today, on the contrary, I would like to ask you, always at the risk of reminding me of the principle of the separation of powers, on the contrary, that up to the point of the general prosecutor's office in a case that targets migrants' shelters, people who have the merit of practising active solidarity with other people who have fled their country at the risk of their lives. The Attorney-General's Office appealed against all the judgement in this case, known as migrants' shelters, which was learned in mid-January. By the original judgement of 12 December 2018, three Belgian citizens and one Belgian resident who had hosted migrants in their homes had been acquitted of the charges against them. They were accused of trafficking in human beings and criminal organization. The prosecution demanded the conviction of only two of them, for allegedly being accomplices to smugglers of the migrants they welcomed at home. The court, on the other hand, sentenced the smugglers to 12 to 40 months in prison, with a suspended sentence for some. Minister, have you been consulted on this decision of the Public Prosecutor's Office? Is it the result of any injunction in your charge? How is it justified when the judgement appeared to be in line with the expectations of the Attorney-General's Office? Is such a decision consistent, in your opinion, with the criminal policy priorities set by the government? Have you contacted the Attorney General's Office to obtain an explanation of this choice? Do you intend to do it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1019x.u34	Mr President, Mr Gilkinet, the Federal Prosecutor of Brussels has confirmed to me that his office has independently decided to appeal against this judgment, in particular in view of the acquittals and the sentences handed down, because his function considered it appropriate to refer the case as a whole to the Court of Appeal. I did not avail myself of my right to a positive injunction in this case. As far as this specific matter is concerned, I will of course abstain from any comment. In general terms of criminal policy, however, I can say that the fight against trafficking and trafficking in human beings is one of the priorities and requires a strong policy of repression, given the unbearable human suffering that this form of crime causes among the most vulnerable people in our society and the total lack of ethical conscience shown by human traffickers and smugglers. In this regard, I refer to the judicial proceedings initiated last week by the West Flanders Public Prosecutor's Office, for which as many as 17 persons were brought during eighteen searches in Ittre and Brussels. As to whether or not a person is guilty of these offences, it is the assessment of the individual facts of the specific case made by the judge that determines it. The Minister of Justice may not make any statement on the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1019x.u35	Minister, I obviously expected that you would not comment on the decision. I hope you think more about it. I join you in saying that combating trafficking and trafficking in human beings must be a priority. But in this case and in a clear way, this is not the case here. It is an active solidarity exercised by Belgian citizens to compensate for the lack of action and solidarity on the part of the federal authorities. Let me comment: I find it shocking that these people, who are justly ethical, are being prosecuted by the Federal Public Prosecutor's Office. That he would show such up to the pointism on this issue and not on others where he would be expected gives the impression of strong justice with the weak and weak with the strong. I am referring to my introduction to the Fortis case and to other cases relating to financial crime which cost tens of billions of euros to the state budget and give a very poor image of justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1019x.u36	Minister, this is a particularly important issue regarding the ability of justice to function normally in Namur. You are well aware of this issue and we must take advantage of the fact that you are the Minister of Justice and the Minister in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments to move forward. For many years, the health of Namur's courthouse has deteriorated sharply. The prospect of the construction of a courthouse in the Walloon capital does not at all justify the absence of any investments made to ensure a minimum the safety, security and minimal functionality of these places in which justice is supposed to be done. On numerous occasions, I have called upon the Ministers of Justice and in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments successionles to take steps to improve the working conditions of the judiciary and, first and foremost, to ensure the safety of workers, lawyers, magistrates and litigants. On November 29, 2018, a new step was taken since the King's attorney announced that access to the palace floors would be prohibited from 1 December. The magistrate thus carried out a directive of the Inspectorate of Welfare at Work, a report of which pointed out "a serious and fatal risk to the workers of the courthouse". Nearly 80 people dealing with financial crime, morals, thefts with violence had to leave their offices, where they were no longer safe, and find temporary and uncomfortable accommodation in other places more or less far from the courthouse. In the meantime, emergency work has been carried out and the courthouse has been reopened and the Namibian justice system has resumed or is about to resume. A lot of time, energy and money have been lost and this is clearly only a temporary solution in view of the construction of a new courthouse in Namur. Minister, what work was done at the Namur courthouse, from what budget and for what amount? What is the current security and safety situation at the Namur courthouse? What work is still planned in the short term? Do you have an estimate of the delays in the cases following the closure of the Namur courthouse for a few weeks? What human resources will be released to address these delays? What other emergency measures have you planned to deal with this unacceptable situation? What about the construction of a new courthouse in Namur? Can you provide us with an updated agenda about him? Are the necessary budgets available?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1019x.u37	Mr Gilkinet, as has already been explained in this committee on 9 January, many necessary works have already been carried out, allowing the palace to reopen. There is no longer a danger to the safety of people. Part of the work has been completed and is the responsibility of the Régie des Bâtiments, another part is the responsibility of the SPF Justice. A by-law determines the distribution between the Régie and the occupants. In particular, the following work has been carried out: the verification of cornices and roofs and the execution of repairs, the replacement of a defective electrical housing and its displacement, a stability analysis – which is quite reassuring – the preventive securing of the entrance porch, a new control of electrical installations, the replacement and repair of fire detection plants, the replacement of the secure door closure system and its enslavement to the central safety system as well as the replacement of the management unit, the securing of the "convinced rooms" – the re-conformity of the electrical installations is under way. An exact list of who has paid what is not yet available. Some work is still ongoing and not all invoices have yet been received. The Régie des Bâtiments is continuing to upgrade its electrical installations to standards. Further work will certainly need to be considered on the basis of the results of the evacuation exercise, which will take place in the near future, and the visit of the firefighters that has been requested. The issues of resorption of the backlog and additional means have already been discussed here two weeks ago. Nine persons have increased the staff of the prosecution service to eliminate the backlog and the recruitment of three persons for the registry is under way. I also indicated on 9 January that we will normally be able to publish the specifications for the new palace in March. After the award of this contract, a more precise timetable may be established.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1019x.u38	Minister, I must not convince you that the situation in this courthouse is absolutely deplorable. This gives a very bad image of justice, but also of the federal state as a whole. Perhaps we should thank the Labour Inspectorate's services for the short-term investments that have been needed for a long time. On the other hand, we must worry about the temporary nature of the works and the discomfort that remains in this courthouse in Namur. I hope that all the necessary investments will be made so that justice can be done in a correct and secure manner, with minimum standards of comfort until a new courthouse emerges. It has been announced for many years and I will believe in its existence when I see it built!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1019x.u39	Mr President, Minister, on 9 January the Brussels Court of First Instance condemned the Belgian State for overpopulation in the prisons of Prince and Saint Gillis. It is not the first time that the Belgian State has been convicted of overpopulation in prisons, but new is the threat of periodic penalty payments. The State was given six months to improve the situation. In 2015, the Order of French speaking and German speaking counters had taken three legal action against the overpopulation in the penitentiary institutions of Lantin, Vorst/Sint-Gillis and Bergen. A first judgment of the Court of First Instance in Liège was published in October. The ruling recognised the responsibility of the Belgian State with regard to overpopulation in prisons and condemned the State to take appropriate measures. The European Court of Human Rights has also condemned Belgium on several occasions for the circumstances in which the prisoners reside. Although the overpopulation in Belgian prisons has declined overall over the last few months, the situation in some prisons remains unacceptable. Mr Minister, why are we still facing overcrowding in Belgian prisons in 2019, despite several convictions? How will you avoid the loss of periodic penalty payments due to overcrowding in the Prince and Saint Gillis prisons? Which prisons are facing overcrowding today? What appropriate measures will you take to ensure that the overpopulation in all Belgian prisons is a thing of the past?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1019x.u40	Mr President, Mrs Lambrecht, the prison population has fallen sharply since 2014, and that trend is continuing today. This decrease can partly be attributed to a larger transfer of interned persons to adapted institutions. To this end, two forensic psychiatric centers were opened, namely in Ghent and Antwerp, and additional places were created in the regular psychiatric circuit. Thanks to these measures hundreds of interned people now benefit from adapted care. In addition, legislative initiatives were taken to extend the penal system, in particular the trial and electronic surveillance as autonomous punishment. The application of electronic surveillance in the context of pre-trial detention also increased. It has to be said that I have no control over the number of detentions, as detentions depend on external decisions by, among other things, the investigating judge. With the exception of the provisional release, decisions on release shall be taken by external bodies, such as the criminal enforcement court. The prison of Haren will suffice to house the present population in the Brussels prisons. My services are currently examining whether additional measures can be taken at an infrastructure level in the short term. Currently, the prisons of Antwerp, Dendermonde, Ghent, Ypres, Lantin, Nivelles and Saint-Gilles are facing the largest overpopulation by percentage. The realisation of infrastructure projects, provided for in successive master plans, will lead to the availability of capacity for both prisoners and interns. It goes without saying that this is a long-term planning.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1019x.u41	Can I assume that you believe that the Belgian State will not have to pay periodic penalty payments?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-23-54-commissie-ic1019x.u42	I cannot make any preliminaries on that, Mrs Lambrecht. That decision is up to the judge.
