ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1038x.u1	Minister, we know that the management and control of those who are radicalized and convicted of terrorism is a great challenge for the prison services. On the other hand, we are increasingly reading that experts question the effectiveness of the religious deradicalization programmes of these detainees. The Government has taken measures to combat and protect itself from terrorist threats. Undeniably, the 2015 Action Plan has made progress. However, we believe it is imperative to strengthen our tools to protect our fellow citizens from a threat that is being increased as a result of the upcoming release of prisoners convicted of terrorist acts. Minister, these are my questions. First, have you recently taken action on disengagement and deradicalization programmes during the execution of prison sentences or after the release of prisoners? Then, how many people are being followed today after their imprisonment, including through the permanent consultation platform? Is work done to analyse the risk profile? If so, by whom? In addition, is the screening of inmate visitors conducted only in the Deradex sections? How many have been in the last two years? Is a referral active in each prison? Otherwise, in which? Is it only found in the Deradex? Finally, within the framework of Franco-Belgian cooperation, were harmonisations carried out between services in 2018 in the Schengen information system in terms of the modalities for reporting radicalised prisoners who leave prison?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1038x.u2	Mr Pivin, the process of disengagement is primarily undertaken by the Communities, with justice acting as a facilitator so that they can develop their activities in the various institutions. This route for social reintegration is tailored to each individual and includes the security and socio-preventive aspects, ensuring continuity of follow-up. In 2016, prison training centres organized training on disengagement for imams and Islamic advisers. We do not have an overview of post-detention follow-ups. Currently, 222 detainees are being monitored internally for acts of extremism and terrorism, both locally and centrally. The Extremism Cell (CelEx) of DG EPI carries out monitoring and updating with the help of a permanent risk analysis of these detainees - in consultation with external security partners such as OCAM, DJSOC Terro, State Security (VSSE) etc. - and on the basis of the observations of these detainees, in order to control the risks. To this end, working groups exist and relevant information is exchanged through the joint OCAM database. For each inmate followed by CelEx, a screening of the complete list of visitors is carried out. In addition, CelEx also monitors whether persons related to terrorism are among the visitors of each inmate and not just CelEx detainees: the identity of the visitors is compared with the entities included in the common OCAM database. Where appropriate, the Regional Directorate shall be informed thereof. Each prison housing radicalized prisoners has a number of reference persons both within the local management of the psychosocial service and within the supervisory staff and therefore not only in the prisons of Ittre and Hasselt. All of these people have received specialized training. In the near future, local information managers will be appointed to act as points of contact between local security services and central services. The Deradex sections of Ittre and Hasselt are evaluated on an ongoing basis. The results of these evaluations and the adaptations will be published later this year. Franco-Belgian cooperation on terrorism is already particularly intense at both strategic and operational levels. There is a specific approach to national and Schengen alerts at Belgian level. With regard to people who leave prisons and are radicalised, there are discussions between some Belgian services and their French counterparts on the follow-up of radicalised ex-prisoners. I do not think it appropriate to go into more detail.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1038x.u3	Mr Minister, first of all I would like to thank you for the clarification you have given me. You are talking about Deradex reviews by indicating that they will take place in the course of 2019. Can you be a little more specific about this. We're now in February? There's another ten months left. Can you tell me whether this will take place at the end or at the beginning of this year? I imagine you have heard of the Césure disengagement programme which is being organised at the level of the French Wallonia-Brussels Community. Can you tell me whether your administration and your firm are involved in this disengagement programme, which aims to train workers – if I am well informed – to follow up, for several months, radicalised people, and which therefore starts by offering training to these workers?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1038x.u4	Mr Pivin, as far as your first question is concerned, you know the classic answer in English: 'as soon as possible'. As far as the second question is concerned, I am indeed aware of the existence of this programme. I believe that this has been discussed at the Interdepartmental Conference of the Houses of Justice. In any case, the collaboration between my administration and the Communities on deradicalisation – the approach being quite different on the Dutch-speaking and French-speaking sides – is intense. She's not perfect but intense.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1038x.u5	Minister, thank you. I know the approaches are different. It had indeed been pointed out, in the context of the commission of inquiry into the attacks, that there were profound differences. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1038x.u6	Mr President, Minister, I come back to the parliamentary committee of inquiry. Among its recommendations was a change in the management of the Great Mosque in Brussels in order to remove it from foreign control in opposition to our fundamental values and rights. About a year ago, the federal government decided to break the concession agreement between the Belgian State and the Great Mosque. I heard that this Friday, February 1st, you held a meeting on this. Minister, who was participating in your meeting and what decisions have they already taken on the management of the mosque? What control is provided for the management, occupation and financial operation of this place? My most specific question is about the one-year deadline given by the government in March 2018. Will it be respected by those responsible for Islamic worship in Belgium? Finally, has an application for recognition been submitted to your knowledge to the Brussels regional authorities? Have you ever been asked for advice under this recognition procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1038x.u7	Mr. President, Mr. Pivin, on February 1, a representative of my office and an adviser to the Brussels Minister-President held a briefing on the future of the Great Mosque at the Great Mosque itself. This meeting was intended to reassure the faithful following the announced departure of its current manager, the Islamic and Cultural Centre of Belgium (CICB). For the time being, the CICB is still the manager of the Great Mosque. Once the convention has been definitively broken, the Belgian Muslim Executive will be responsible for the temporary management of the building, so long as it is possible to implement the recommendations of the committee of inquiry of the House of Representatives, which in particular requires the involvement of the local community of the faithful. It is then up to the Belgian Muslim Executive to appoint a temporary management committee, to ensure its functioning and to assist it in applying for recognition from the Brussels-Capital Region, in accordance with the legislation of that Region.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1038x.u8	Minister, you did not reply to me about the deadline. Will the time limit be flexible, or will the current occupants be required to leave the site upon expiry of the notice period?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1038x.u9	We are always very rigid about the principles and very flexible about their application. In Latin, it is formulated fortiter in re suaviter in modo. I now speak the Antwerper. I therefore believe that this will take place in March.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1038x.u10	Minister, thank you for these clarifications and for their humorous formulation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1038x.u11	Question No 28513 by Mrs Lambrecht is transformed into a written question, as is Question No 28656 by Mr Maingain. Question No 28766 by Mrs Van Cauter is postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1038x.u12	Minister, a new circular from the College of Attorneys General last December gives the press judges almost exclusivity in the relationship between justice and journalists. We learn that this circular, drawn up according to my information without any consultation with the world of the media, provides that television reports must be the subject of the signature of agreements between the media and the press magistrate and that the latter may "have the transmission of texts, words or images erased or prohibited, without having to justify the reason or the basis thereof to his interlocutor". The Association of Professional Journalists (AJP) is indignant and concerned about these provisions, which are particularly worrying for journalists and for the freedom to inform. Furthermore, the AJP recalls that freedom of journalistic work is guaranteed in the Constitution and its article 25. The circular also provides for the prohibition of journalists from participating in reports that would call into question a final decision; conditions for journalists, such as obtaining permission from suspects to shoot a report; and control of its communication for the press magistrate. Minister, this circular raises several questions. In the future, how can we highlight a possible miscarriage of justice when judges are prohibited from speaking in reports that would call into question a final decision? It is assumed that the suspects will no longer agree to these broadcasts concerning ongoing cases. Where is the freedom to inform? Will the media have to wait until a case is finally decided before they can broadcast reports? Finally, if the press magistrate can choose who he is speaking to, where is the duty of fairness of the public prosecutor? How will the press judge choose the journalist he speaks to? On the basis of what criteria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1038x.u13	Mr Goffin, I have submitted your questions to the College of Attorneys General, which has given me the following answers. The circular cannot encourage judges and police officers to use extralegal means to challenge a judicial truth established by a final decision. There is a legal procedure to challenge a res judicata of a criminal conviction when new elements appear after the decision has been handed down. This is the revision. On the other hand, the law does not allow a final acquittal decision to be challenged. Where a person has been the subject of an acquittal order, magistrates or police officers may not participate in a report whose objective would be to challenge that judgment or judgment, in which case they would be liable to the Belgian State if they made statements which might lead to the idea that notwithstanding the acquittal decision, the facts are nevertheless established or most likely established in the person's head having been dismissed. In the event of a conviction decision, it should be avoided that the statements made by judges or police officers jeopardize the proper conduct of a review procedure which the convicted person would like to undertake in prejudicing its outcome. In any event, nothing prevents a journalist from making a report on a case tried by interviewing any person outside the law or the police whom he considers likely to shed new light on the case. First response from the College. The College's second answer is that it is necessary to distinguish two things - on the one hand, the freedom to inform, allowing journalists to gather information from any person who agrees to answer it, and on the other hand, the right for anyone to refuse to answer questions from the press or to be filmed in a given circumstance. As much as the right to gather information for the journalist must be as broad as possible, respect for the presumption of innocence and privacy must allow any person involved in a judicial case to refuse to be filmed or to be interviewed. The College's third reply: the circular expressly states that the information is communicated exclusively to professional journalists. On the other hand, the circular imposes a principle of equality between journalists and does not allow some to receive more information than others. End of citation of the three responses of the College. Thank you, Mr. Goffin.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1038x.u14	The attached questions Nos 28694 and 28700 by Mrs Van Vaerenbergh and Mr Janssens are transformed into written questions.
