ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1048x.u1	Colleagues, the Minister and Mr Wittoeck will each give a presentation. I propose that the questions be grouped together after the two presentations, so that we can deal with the two stories together. Are there specific objections to this? [[No, no, ……]] Mr Wittoeck is the first to have the floor for his explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1048x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to tell you a great deal in a big nutshell. I am given the opportunity to try to give you an insight into the state of policy at federal level. At the same time, I would also like to look a little ahead to the prospects for the coming months and years.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1048x.u3	First of all, let me briefly remind you of the challenge facing society worldwide. The COP24 in Katowice and the IPCC report are quite recent. The impact of limiting global warming to a maximum of 1.5°C and what is needed for this was a very topical issue and an important framework for your work. One of the things the IPCC has summarised in its special report is based on the existing scientific literature, because that's what the IPCC is doing.It doesn't do research itself.It's to see what emission reductions are needed to limit global warming to 1.5°C. You remember. The Paris Agreement obliges us not to exceed that 1.5°C ceiling and simply obliges us to remain well below the 2°C temperature increase in relation to the pre-industrial level. The entire IPCC report depends on a comparison between those two scenarios. On the one hand, it is about the impact. I do not show you slides today, but the difference in terms of impact is very significant for that 1.5°C. On the other hand, we are talking about the impact in terms of the necessary emission reductions, which are undoubtedly striking. You can see that on this graph. The emission pathways are the colored pathways. These are sets of projections from scientific literature that allow not to exceed the 1.5°C target. This means well-known in the meantime, but I would like to remind you that we must be carbon neutral worldwide by 2050. If we balance emissions and absorption of greenhouse gases by 2050, we can ensure that global temperatures do not rise by more than 1.5°C. If we want to stay below 2°C, not well below 2°C, because then somewhere in between we have to achieve that carbon neutrality, that balance, quite quickly, in the middle of the second half of this century. A little closer, and this can of course be seen from the graph, is the finding of the IPCC that in the short term global net emissions should be reduced by 45% in order to respect 1.5°C. And that is also the time horizon for the national energy and climate plan, on which I will tell you a little bit more later. Mind you, 2010 is the baseline there and not, as often, 1990. That makes a difference. For net zero, the baseline of course does not make a difference between zero and zero. Also well-known, if I may say so, of the many analyses that demonstrate this, is that the Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs), the objectives and climate plans registered by the parties to the Paris Agreement, are well insufficient to be on the path of that 1.5°C or even 2°C. You can compare the two trajectories in the green and yellow on this graph with the two blue trajectories, the dark blue is policy without the NDCs, the light blue with the dotted line is the result of the efforts contained in the NDCs. This shows that, even with these efforts, the two arrows are very large in terms of the result to be achieved in 2030. Those figures in themselves, even for me, are quite abstract, of course. It becomes a little more concrete when one looks at what this gap means in terms of the rise in temperature that we will see if we do not close that gap. Then it is seen that instead of landing somewhere between 1.5°C and 2°C, we are heading for a range of species that are always ranges in scientific research around 3°C. This means a lot. I have no slides to show you this time, but if you look at the special report of the IPCC, you will see that the impact, even from 2°C compared to 1.5°C, can be very serious. So three or more degrees can certainly have disastrous consequences in many segments of society. The IPCC does not set targets, but I have shown you the analysis of the IPCC, where we need to go with our emissions. That's ambitious. 2050 isn't that long. 2030 is the day after tomorrow, so to speak. The IPCC actually kicks in an open door, but I like to show this quote. To achieve 1.5°C, we need to do a very fast and far-reaching transformation, transformation or transition in all sectors of society, a real system transition. I was just talking about COP24. This report was one of the points of attention there. The COP24 was not only the COP on which the implementing rules for the Paris Agreement were adopted, but also a message of ambition in the light of the IPCC's findings. The result of the COP is disappointing at the hands of a number of usual suspects. However, those countries that have stopped a strong and confirmatory welcome to the IPCC report and its message can be counted on one hand. There were four of them. It can therefore be said that 192 others welcome this report. Nevertheless, the report in the context of the implementation of the Convention and of the Paris Agreement will continue to be discussed in UNFCCC. That is also in the context of the preparation of future Nationally Determined Contributions. The ambition process, the so-called Talanoa Dialogue, the first time the ambition mechanism of the Paris Agreement really entered into force, ended at COP. This is largely due to the Polish President. There is an interesting quote from the Polish Minister for the Environment, who said before COP24 that COP24 was not about ambition for him. All decisions are taken by consensus, which means unanimity. The result in terms of a message of ambition is quite disappointing, again at the hands of some against a somewhat broader political will to give a signal to all parties to the Paris Agreement to strengthen their NDCs. What are the next steps? Well, we're going to COP25, of course. A number of technical issues will be discussed there. The rulebook is not complete yet. For example, we did not agree on the carbon market, which in itself is a happy message, because it did not look good in terms of the integrity of the process. Political attention will rather shift to a number of processes outside the UNFCCC, with the focus of the climate summit, the climate summit, organised by the Secretary-General of the United Nations in New York in September. Politically speaking, that will really be a focal point for testing the ambition. On a slide, I'll show you why. You will see the ambition mechanism with a five-year review of the extent to which the parties succeed in achieving their goals under the Paris climate agreement, collectively, followed by the biennial updating of NDCs. The first time this should be done in 2020, two years after the Talanoa dialogue. Here comes the climate Summit, more specifically for the UNFCCC process. After all, the ambition cycle started with the Talanoa dialogue. The political debate on whether and how we will increase the level of ambition will shift this year to the climate summit led by António Guterres. I will show you a quote from one of the speeches made by the Secretary-General in Katowice, from which it is clear that it is also his objective to use the summit of Heads of State or Government as a platform for boosting ambition and closing the gap, more specifically by strengthening the Nationally Determined Contributions, which should be resubmitted to the United Nations in 2020. The question arises as to whether the European Union will submit a new NDC objective and that remains an open question. The current NDC includes the target of at least 40% emission reduction by 2030, which is consistent with a long-term emission reduction, not to reach net zero, but to a reduction of 80%. In the light of this and in the context of the ambition cycle, will the EU present a new NDC by 2020? It is an open question, to which we have not yet received a united and unambiguous response from the various European institutions, but there is already a clear political will, as expressed by the European Council, almost a year ago, to develop a long-term strategy in line with the Paris Agreement. This was translated in more detail by the Environment Council, just before Katowice in October last year, which called on the Commission to include a scenario that is consistent with the 1.5 C target, a path towards net zero emissions. When it comes to European ambition, of course, the dynamics lie not only with the European institutions, such as the Council itself. There are also coalitions of countries. Let me show you here a map of the countries of the Paris Proof Coalition, to which reference is made in one of the resolutions adopted in this House. They already called in April last year for a long-term strategy in line with the Paris Agreement. There was also the much more explicit and clear call of the European Parliament in its resolution in preparation for COP24, which called not only for an ambitious midcentury zero emissions strategy, but also for Parliament to support the updating of the European NDC. That is the European Parliament's response to the question I just showed you, by increasing the level of ambition for greenhouse gas emissions from at least 40% to 55% by 2030 by reference year 1990. A similar signal was also given at Benelux level just before Katowice: with the Benelux Talanoa Declaration and our input, together with the Netherlands and Luxembourg, in the years of the Talanoa Dialogue, we have called on the Commission not only to propose a long-term strategy consistent with the Paris Agreement, but also to identify options to make the European NDC coherent, in particular with carbon neutrality and net zero emissions by the middle of the century. You know this text. You wrote it yourself. The 55% of the European Parliament's resolution is also reflected in your resolution of 20 December and was supplemented by the target of 95% reduction in the long term after COP, compared to 1990. In the meantime, the European Commission has published its proposal for a long-term strategy:Our Vision for a Clean Planet for All. It has done so before the COP and has given a strong political signal to the international community. Even though this document is not formally supported by the whole of the Union at the moment, it is a signal from one of the important European institutions that the European Union is seriously considering how we can respect the 1.5°C ceiling. I won't talk about all the details. I will show you the scenarios that the Commission has examined in its proposal for a long-term strategy. You will see that out of the eight scenarios two, here in the columns on the right, are looking at how this 1.5°C can be respected and how a net zero emission can be achieved. The scenarios on the left aim at 80% emission reduction, which is consistent in the Commission's analysis with a fair European contribution to the objective of staying well below 2°C. It is the wish of many that this strategy should continue at Council level during this legislative period, and in particular at the important Future of Europe Summit in Sibiu, Romania, in May 2019. The informal European Council expects, as you can see from the European Commissioner for Energy and Climate Policy's quote, that more than relevant things will be said there. The European Council, which will take place in Brussels in a small month, is a step in this direction. That is also where the long-term strategy is on the agenda. I will now go to the short term at Belgian level, again with the picture of the ambition mechanism, to show you that European policy and its policy cycle have been fully aligned for a year and since the adoption of the regulation on the governance of the Energy Union. It is a five-year cycle, just like the cycle that exists under Paris. The cycle consists of national energy and climate plans each with a draft and a final plan as well as an update in the middle of the period, which is an update after five years, a new plan over ten years and a long-term strategy, which we must also present in 2020, as is the final national energy and climate plan. I'm moving on to the plans myself now. Here you see the structure of such a plan. It is a rather classical structure. I'm not showing you that just to show you what a plan might look like by textbook. I would particularly like to show you that the five dimensions of the Energy Union, which are the whole of energy and climate policy, must be addressed throughout the whole plan, in particular decarbonisation, energy efficiency, but also security of supply, energy markets, research and development and competitiveness. So that goes much wider than the classic national climate plans that we are used to, with, of course, a lot of energy in them. So this is a famous challenge. It is a challenge in terms of integration - the name is actually integrated national energy and climate plans - for all the Member States of the European Union, especially for our country with its institutions, where integration has gained a dimension. We must not only integrate the areas of competence with each other, but we must also do so across the different levels of competence, if I may afford to do so. During the preparation of the draft national energy and climate plan submitted by Belgium to the European Commission on 31 December 2018 and thus within the deadline, a joint steering committee of two of the consultative bodies we have in this country, in particular between the federal government and the regions, was set up. On the energy side, this is the consultation between the State and the Regions ENOVER/CONCERE and on the part of the National Climate Policy Committee. Both fora, as I have already mentioned, are composed of representatives of the federal government and of the three Regions. In this context, an integrated national climate and energy plan has been drawn up. Let me show you what that looks like. The plan consists of several shutters: a federal hatch, two Flemish shutters, in particular a Flemish climate plan and a Flemish energy plan, a Walloon energy and climate plan and a Brussels energy and climate plan. The plan itself and its communication to the European Commission specify that those entity-specific plans are the basis for the integrated plan and for the evaluation of the national energy and climate plan that the Commission is currently implementing. Not only does the draft plan consist of four or five shutters, but it also has an overarching text which does not include some of the measures covered by the sub-plans and specifies what I have just said, namely that the officially applicable plans examined by the European Commission are the sub-plans annexed to the overarching part. I believe that there will be a need for some explanation to the Members of the European Commission as to which texts they should be assessing. I have already had informal questions about this, but we can do that. Each of the sub-plans was prepared separately, as is the case, by the administrations in interaction with ministers and their policy cells and they were then approved or noted by the governments of the four governments concerned. Finally, the overarching text has been approved by the Consultative Committee, together with those four shutters. The administrative preparation was therefore very largely done in a non-integrated way. I will now give some figures on the expected impact of the objectives set out in the plan. This graph shows the targets for Belgium by 2020, i.e. -15 % in the non-ETS sectors, -35 % by 2030, according to a linear trajectory; these are not point targets, but linear pathways. If we look at our emissions compared to those two routes, we can see that at the moment there is a bit of discussion about the risk that we will not reach the target path by 2020. If we look at the longer term, at the projections included in the national energy and climate plan (at the top of the chart in the orange "with existing measures," without the measures of the plan, and at the bottom of the dark blue "with additional measures"), we see that the plan is needed to achieve our goal in the long term and that, according to the projections, which have been provided essential by the Regions, we will achieve that -35 per cent target compared to 2005. When comparing figures, it is always important to keep the base year in mind. This means great efforts in all sectors. You will see here transport, residential and other buildings, the tertiary sector, energy use and agriculture not CO2, methane, N2O and so on. In blue, each time the reduction required to achieve the equivalent of 35 % is shown, compared to business as usual, which is in orange. As you can see, efforts will have to be quite considerable in all sectors, especially in the transport sector, where the effort is not only in absolute terms, but also where there is a need to reverse the trend. Indeed, emissions in the transport sector continue to increase. The plan contains a de facto Burden Sharing. You can see here the objectives that the regions have set out. The Belgian percentage is more linearly distributed. You can see the numbers. The 35% was translated into 35% for the Flemish Region, 32% for Brussels and 37% for the Walloon Region. This has again been supported, as was the case in the current Burden Sharing, by federal policies which, of course, have their effect in terms of emission reductions on the territory of the Regions. The graph shows the impact of these federal measures. This shows that the main measures are fiscal incentives for energy efficiency in households. I will show you later in my presentation why this focus on households is so important. Biofuels also have a major role to play. This is an important component of our renewable objective. There are also fiscal measures for energy saving. That's the three biggest ones. As regards the impact of these measures, including in the longer term, you can see that the impact of the existing measures on the orange tungsten carbide remains about stable. You can also see the impact of a number of new measures, in blue. The decarbonisation dimension of the national energy and climate plan is, of course, about emissions, but also renewable energy. Belgium's contribution to the European renewable energy objectives is part of this. So here you see the figures in the renewable energy plan. Belgium is proposing a share of 18.3% of renewable energy in the energy mix by 2030 horizon. The lines that go to 2050 are not in the plan. They're actually there as a reference. For example, if we were to aim for 100 % of renewable energy by 2050, you would see that the linear continuation of the evolution of the share of renewable energy in our country does not take us there. That's just... That's just... that's... that's just... that's... What is more specific is that last year, before we submitted the plan, the European Commission gave signals that it expected more from Belgium. So we can expect the European Commission in its recommendations to put pressure on that 18.3%. In the impact assessment of the European Commission, Belgium received a 21% share. Commissioner Arias Cañete said in September that it should be 25% for Belgium. But we will see how that is reflected in the Commission's recommendations, which we will get at the end of the semester. Here you can see the distribution of the renewable energy objective or the share of renewable energy present, in 2016, across the three major sectors: transport, with a large role for biofuels of course, electricity supply and heating and cooling. Again, I give an illustration of the way in which the "burdens" are distributed between the federal government and the Regions. I recommend that you look in particular at the pie diagram on the right, where you see the relative contribution to the Belgian effort of each of the competent authorities. The figures in the table can be compared more difficult because they refer to the energy use in the territory of the region itself. Finally, there is energy efficiency. I will not go into the other dimensions of the plan. I give you the targets for energy efficiency in the 2030 National Energy and Climate Plan. When looking at primary energy consumption, there should be a 22 percent reduction in energy consumption compared to the business as usual scenario. If one looks at final energy consumption, it should be 17%. Once again, efforts must be made in all sectors. Now I'm trying to give some insight into what's in the overarching text of the plan, in the federal section. First, I'd like to outline how the federal part of the plan came about. The measures included in the preliminary draft federal section were based on existing documents: the inter-federal energy pact, the regional energy and climate plans, which were already ready before the federal government, and the contribution of all the relevant federal departments. We have also looked at the inspiration from the various parliamentary climate resolutions. We also looked at the opinions of the two main advisory councils in this area, the Federal Council for Sustainable Development and the Central Council for Business. In a nutshell, I give you an overview of the most important federal measures contained in the plan. I won't go over them one at a time, because that would take too much time. As I said, when preparing the preliminary draft at administrative level, we looked at what the regions were asking for, possibly as an accompanying policy at federal level. It is now the agreement that we will examine the requests of the Regions for framework or supporting federal policy and that we will possibly adapt the draft plan to that. That will happen in March, and we have now begun to do so. Those proposals by the Regions are a pure list of the number of proposals we have found in the regional plans, especially those of Brussels and to a slightly lesser extent the Flemish Region and the Walloon Region. Those proposals are very similar for a great deal. There is a similar demand for a federal policy in the three regional plans, with variations of course. Mobility's in the front. Let me show you the sectors that have to do with this question. In the green you will always see the questions that are included in the design. In red you can see the questions that are not included in the design, and in yellow the questions that are partly covered but not entirely consistent with what the Regions have asked. When one looks at the sectors, it is seen that the regions demand, in particular, a federal policy in the context of mobility and buildings. When one looks at what kind of measures the Regions are asking for, one sees that taxation, in various forms, stands out with its head and shoulders. Taxation is then about continuing the debate on a carbon price or energy tax, consistent with the Paris Agreement and so on. There are also many questions to change the VAT system, and a number of others. But the Regions are clearly asking for an accompanying fiscal policy of the federal government. I would like to remind you briefly that the federal government, on the initiative of the Minister, has already made progress in its study. Fiscal policy is anchored in the inter-federal energy and climate pact. There has been a whole debate on the national carbon price, in which we have tried to look at the facts as widely as possible, with all the actors in society, in order to objectify the ultimate political debate as much as possible. This was done in the context of what many other countries are already doing. You can see here a number of countries that have preceded us in introducing a carbon price. You can see that this is happening everywhere. Sometimes it's quite high rates. The black line is that of Sweden, the blue line is that of France. You can see that there is well above EUR 100 per tonne of CO2. This already applies in Sweden and France aims at a 2030 horizon. In the context of our research, of our debate study, of that national dialogue, we have tried to look at the possible modalities for introducing such a carbon price in our country. This is about the non-ETS sectors, I must add, because there is already a carbon price in the ETS sectors. We have looked at three scenarios for this. You can see them at the dotted lines on the right. In doing so, this carbon price would evolve from EUR 10 per tonne of CO2 in 2020 to EUR 40, 70 and 100 per tonne of CO2 respectively on the 2030 horizon. We are assuming three important principles. Firstly, there is budget neutrality. It is not intended to increase the tax burden, the state tax on taxpayers. That was an absolute precondition. Secondly, there is a long-term orientation to provide security to investors and households. Thirdly, it must be embedded in a broader policy, which also includes framework measures. Then there is the scope, what is called implementation issues: which sectors and gases are involved, what is the price level and what is the trajectory? Those are the three lines from the previous graph. In the context of, among other things, budget neutrality, but also in terms of prevention, how does a very important element of negative redistributing effects on households deal with the returns of such a carbon price? It is also about what is called policy alignment, which is in line with that notion of a package. It must be adapted not only to climate policy, but also, in terms of redistributing impact, to social policy. Broader environmental policy must also be aligned with air pollution policy and so on. So we have tried to place the debate in a much broader context where it belongs. Let me show you a few slides with the results of the debate and the study. We have had a study carried out, in dialogue with the actors of society, to make the most of the expertise of the different sectors and organisations representing the relevant segments of society. This example shows that an increase in the carbon price does not necessarily have to increase the energy bill of households for heating. The same applies to other sectors because this carbon price must be embedded in a broader policy, offering households the opportunity and encouraging or obliging them to better isolate their homes. The resultant of these two makes that even if the energy price would rise due to the carbon price, the invoice due to the lower consumption is positive for the budget. This consumption will have to decrease effectively if we are to enter into this transition in the long term. The revenue from the carbon price can be very significant. This concerns the 70 euro route, which is the middle route of the three we have examined. By introducing such a carbon price, the Belgian authorities can achieve 2.6 billion euros by 2030. These are orders of magnitude that are also mentioned in the discussions on financing climate and energy policy. This analysis is also interesting in this context. The argument is often that a steering levy aims to phase itself out. That is true in part, but then we also have to look at the figures. We did that. You can see the graph for the buildings here, but the graphs are similar for the other sectors. In the graph below on the right are the total income for the buildings, both residential and tertiary. This revenue continues to rise to around mid-decade 2030-2040, size 1 billion. After that, they fall because the policy is beginning to have an impact on CO2 emissions and so there is less CO2 to be priced, but even at the end of this trajectory in 2050, even in that decarbonised world, there is still quite a lot of money left. In any event, the analysis is that such a trajectory provides ample time for an evaluation and reflection of the remaining revenue from such a trajectory in the tax system, in terms of revenue for the State and the expenditure financed by it. I have just said that the use of the proceeds is one of the most important elements of our research. Some theoretical options have been identified. For example, there is the possibility of carrying out a tax shift by reducing the burden on labour, with which I tell nothing new. As we will have to achieve far-reaching electrification of our energy system, a reduction in electricity prices at the expense of fossil fuel prices has also been studied. It is also important how revenues are used to offset potentially negative social impacts or to specifically invest in innovation programmes, for example in SMEs. Redistribution is important; I think that is clear enough in this context. The graph I'm showing you shows how compensation works for households. Suppose that a lump sum is used, in which all households, regardless of their income, receive the same amount. As you can see, the resultant amount is the resultant amount in the orange amount of the carbon price paid and the refundable amount is advantageous for the lower income figures, which are actually profiting from the offset carbon price, while the higher income figures, as they emit much more and therefore pay much more, do not see the carbon price offset by the amount that everyone would get. As a result, the higher income deciles become net contributors, which means that a carbon price, if introduced in this way, has a positive redistributing effect. I know that some tax professors in the media tell other things in that regard. However, a poll which we conducted in parallel with our dialogue among the population towards support for a carbon price has pleasantly surprised us. We would have expected the population to be very negative about this, according to the cliché that often talks about Belgian taxes and taxes, but that does not seem to be so pronounced. The number of people who responded positively, either by agreeing or totally agreeing to the introduction of carbon tarification, is in the green and that number is slightly higher than the number of opponents. The middle class, which has no real opinion, is very large. If we ensure that a measure becomes budget neutral for the user and does not become a net contributor, but can somehow recover the expenditure, then the relationship between citizens who explicitly support such an instrument and those who explicitly oppose it becomes much greater. That was a small step towards our work on taxation for the past two years, because it is an important question for the regions. For the sake of clarity, the debate was not only about the carbon price but also about, among other things, VAT. I have a number of slides with the main measures in the federal and or national umbrella part of the energy and climate plan. We were just talking about taxation and the measures proposed in this area: study work and plans, VAT, phasing out the use of fossil fuels and their subsidies. On the energy front, of course, there is an increase in the capacity of offshore wind installations and what is related to them. For the transport sector, one of the more difficult sectors for reducing emissions, a cooperation agreement is envisaged, already next year, based on a mobility vision that is still to be developed. There is also a specific cooperation agreement on regional traffic tax, traffic tax and entry tax. A very important measure, in terms of contributing to the objectives of the transport sector, is the incorporation of biofuels. It is proposed that by 2030 14 % is added, 7 % first generation and 7 % advanced biofuels, i.e. 7 % based on food crops, ethanol and biodiesel and 7 % for alternatives. The debate on the commercial vehicles, it will not surprise you, is also part of that. The measures in the rail sector are also very important. Investment will be very important in order to continue the long-term transition. I will give you a number of graphs and figures on this later. So it's interesting to see that the plan is still prospectively speaking of the development of slopes for the greening of our financial system. Impulse funds are mentioned in this context, as well as the preservation of green bonds, for which Belgium was one of the first countries to successfully achieve this last year worldwide. There are also a number of smaller measures, which are, however, relevant to the debate to mention, such as the establishment of a robust system for planning, implementation, evaluation and adjustment of the plan. I have already said that the structures we have created to make the first draft, in particular the cooperation between ENOVER and the National Climate Commission, were actually ad hoc, and it has not yet been decided whether or not we will go further. I leave it to everyone to decide whether such a structure indeed represents such a robust governance system and also the notion of improving the integration philosophy of the energy union in Belgium, beyond the borders of our institutions. What are the next steps in the preparation of the final plan to be submitted to the Commission at the end of this year? Firstly, cooperation with our neighbouring countries, to which we are obliged by the European regulation. We have set up a cooperation with the Member States of the Pentalateral Energy Forum, which has its secretariat in the Benelux. It is not yet entirely clear what the next steps will be, but a regional climate and energy dialogue has therefore been set up as a platform for dialogue between Belgium and its neighbours. A number of consultations will also take place at national level. The Advisory Councils have begun to prepare their opinions and consult the public. The plan also provides that the Chamber would be involved, asked for advice or consulted.I don't know what the exact terms are.... in the first quarter of 2019. In parallel, there is the dialogue with the European Commission, which will lead to recommendations from the Commission, which Belgium will then be able to include in the preparation of the final plan by December 2019. All this must of course be seen in the long-term context prescribed by the Paris Agreement, which is not prescribed for us but suggested by the European Commission. We will then see what the European Council does with it in terms of prescribing, but in a long-term context. What we are deciding now, especially when we are talking about investment and infrastructure, as you all know, is what determines whether or not we can meet our long-term objectives and investments. Investment cycles often go beyond the time horizon of the national energy and climate plan. That is why it seemed relevant to me to tell you a number of things about this. I told you, throughout the combined cycle of the Paris ambition mechanism and the governance of the energy union at European level, there are not only the national energy and climate plans, but also the long-term strategy on horizon 2050-2070, which we must present to the European Commission in 2020 and which the United Nations also expect us to submit to them, albeit in less binding terms, but I believe that European law is sufficiently binding to take this seriously. So all this in the context of the Commission's proposed long-term strategy, which is indeed going to look at how one can reduce emissions from sinks, forests, for example, but also by so-called carbon removal technologies (other technologies to extract CO2 from the air, such as carbon capture and storage). That is already futuristic, or not, but we should not necessarily think of more futuristic options where all kinds of installations will scrub CO2 out of the air. Biomass combined with carbon capture and storage is also included. It is therefore a combination of emission reductions and negative emissions, creating sinks. These emission reductions do not go to 0 in the Commission's 1.5°C scenario on horizon 2050, because some of them are compensated by sinks, which go to 94 %. So 94 % emission reduction on horizon 2050. The route that goes there in 2030 is equivalent to a base year compared to 1990, which is important to remember not the at least 40% of the current European objective, but a mission point of 46 %. You can also see that the curve is not linear, there are obviously different ways of getting that 94 %. This has to do with technology choices and when they will have their effect. Nevertheless, I believe it provides an indication of the short-term ambition level that would be associated at European level with net zero emissions by 2050. The European Commission has also considered the potential economic impact of the scenarios. This has shown that the impact of net zero emissions by 2050 is the dark line at the bottom of the net for economic growth can be both positive and negative. In any case, the impact is rather limited. I always say that I do not know very well how large the margin of error is in the predictions of growth of gross domestic product on the horizon over several decades. However, I dare to put my hand into the fire that this margin of error will not be much smaller than the spread between the positive and negative impact of the policy on a business-as-usual growth scenario. In any case, there is no significant negative impact and there may be a positive impact on economic growth. You do not see this on the graph, but in the box below, but the impact has also been analysed for employment. The European Commission expects this impact to be positive and significant at European level, with the creation of 600 000 to 2 million additional jobs. For Belgium you can see our historical emissions on the chart on the left. In orange and blue you can see emissions for all sectors, not just the non-ETS sectors, in an existing policy scenario at the top and with the policies contained in the national energy and climate plan. All this is indicatively compared with a linear trajectory at the end of the 35 % emission reduction that we would achieve with the national energy and climate plan, to fully decarbonisation or 80 %, respectively, to give you an impression. You see a clear nod. A acceleration should therefore be used, moving from about 1 megaton a year to almost 4 to just over 5 megatons a year. That means four to five times the rate of reduction if we wanted to end up in the red zone and contribute to the European zero-emission targets. The sectors covered by the European Emissions Trading System will remain covered by the European Emissions Trading System. They are of course relevant to Belgium. These are important sectors of the economy. However, they may be less relevant to federal policy, which I was asked to focus on here. So I'm not gonna tell you too much about it. I will tell you a few more things about the sectors for which the Belgian authorities are very directly responsible, in particular the non-ETS sectors. When you look at the graph, you will find that they account for most of the Belgian emissions. On the right you see transport and buildings, besides industry and agriculture as the main sectors. But mostly transport and buildings. You won't be surprised. Non-ETS sectors. We have not received a complete trajectory from the European Commission on how the coloured graph, which I have just shown you, translates into emission reductions across the period for the ETS and non-ETS sectors, but point targets. Carbon neutrality in 2050, in the Commission's analysis, would imply an emission reduction of 91 to 94 % for all sectors. Then there is the offset of negative emissions compared to 1990. In the non-ETS sectors, therefore, I always stressed the base year just now, because it is not possible simply to put these figures side by side. The base year is always 2005, because before that we did not have reliable figures on these sectors. The contribution of non-ETS sectors to net zero emissions across Europe should be an emission reduction of 86 to 87% compared to 2005. Feel free to compare this with Belgium's 35% target on 2030 horizon. This also means accelerating efforts at European level. If you follow the grey line, you will first see the European objective on horizon 2020 in those sectors. That's what ""10" means. The Belgian 15% is derived from this. On 2030 horizon, with current policies, non-ETS sectors should reduce 30%. The Belgian 35% is derived from this. In the long run, you will see the kink......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... There are several ways of achieving these net zero emissions. Here are a number of theoretical possibilities to situate the order of magnitude. Assuming that all Member States meet their targets on horizon 2020 in order to start using carbon neutrality on a linear path, a European 35% emission reduction story will be created in 2030. According to the latest projections, all Member States together will achieve greater emission reductions than the 10% collectively required. According to Member States' most recent projections, emissions reduction would not be 10% but 15% to 17% by 2020. If that level is taken as the basis for using a linear trajectory towards carbon neutrality, then by 2030 we will achieve 39 to 40% of emission reductions in these sectors. Always compared to 2005. If this linear trajectory had already started to be used in 2005, the theoretical figure would be 48 per cent by 2030. This gives you a spread of the range of goals with horizon 2030 for decarbonisation. I also tried to do the same on a Belgian level. Here you can see the objectives, the pathways, the historical emissions and the projected emissions with 2030 horizon. I have added two linear pathways to the same long-term emission reduction target, 86 to 87 % compared to 2005 in the non-ETS sectors. If we take 2005 as the start of this process, we will also get 48% for Belgium. Starting from the target goal of 2020, to focus on a linear reduction to carbon neutrality, Belgium will receive 38% in 2030 in the non-ETS sectors. Those are preliminary results, because we haven't had much time to double-check all that. It is of course also purely illustrative, because these are straight lines and not necessarily the routes to be followed. However, it gives an idea of the size of the efforts. For a number of years, we've been looking at more fine long-term trajectories than the straight lines I just showed you. Since 2012, both the three Regions and we have been working on this. We then analysed the possible scenarios to allow Belgium to make the transition to a low carbon society. There was also a scenario of 95% reduction in emissions in all sectors. This 95% is similar to what the European Commission is putting at the end of its long-term strategy in terms of gross emissions. You see an important contribution of bioenergy over the black line, compared to the dotted line of the reference scenario. This is a drastic reversal of existing policies in order to achieve a low carbon future. Then I come to the same scenario, but now the emissions are distributed according to the source. I'm gonna make this quick. This is particularly true of the parts under the zero line, in the green bioenergy and in the red carbon capture and storage, i.e. the contribution of negative emissions so that we can stay on the black line, the reduction path. In this context, we have also looked at the cost of a 95% reduction in emissions, economy wide, not just for the non-ETS. Looking at the three components of the cost of the energy system, in green investments, in burgundy maintenance and operations and maintenance and in blue fuel costs, it is true that up to 2020 there would be a huge increase in investment. The data dates back to 2013, so maybe all of this will shift a little bit and so I now have to talk about "would have been" instead of "would have been." If we look at the evolution of the other cost components, and certainly the cost of the fuel component, we can see that they fall so much that the costs as a whole are not limited but lower than the costs in the reference scenario. You can see that by the black dotted line. Then we look a little more in detail at all the scenarios we have looked at, including the 95 % scenario. The other scenarios are 80 % scenarios. You're seeing the same thing. In blue you can see the investment costs, in the burgundy operations and maintenance and in the dark blue at the top of the fuel costs. In any scenario, even in the more ambitious 95% scenario, with 35% more investment in the energy system, the national energy bill lowers to such an extent that the increase is fully compensated. One has, so to speak, a positive return on investment. That's all about the macro level. If one looks at micro-level, at sector level, and one day this will have to be done, one will get a more diverse picture, which, of course, will have to be taken into account in policy. We have not only looked at the impact on the energy bill, but also at broader macroeconomic impacts. It is a bit like the European Commission did in its impact assessment. We did not do that for horizon 2050, because that is not what our models allow, but for horizon 2030. It is seen that the decoupling between greenhouse gas emissions and economic growth is continuing, also on a path towards decarbonisation. In this scenario, 46 percent of emissions are reduced on the 2030 horizon, yet there is economic growth, a virtually linear increase. If we want to take a number of measures to shift costs, by doing a tax shift from labour to greenhouse gas emissions, we can achieve a double dividend that not only leads to high growth, 2%, but also to significant additional jobs. Some sectors will lose net jobs, others will win. Hence my reference just now to the micro level by 2030. By the way, that study was conducted by the Planning Bureau. In addition, there are the secondary benefits of climate policy. For example, health costs resulting from air pollution now amount to 4% of gross domestic product. Among other things, the cost of traffic jams and bad housing and road safety will also decrease. The main conclusions of the scenarios speak for themselves. I won't go over the whole list. We have long known in which sectors the big levers lie. The study itself goes much deeper than those key messages. I would like to go into a little more detail with you on some of the levers that should be put in place to ensure that the sectors we have analysed evolve to 95% reduction in emissions. Firstly, with regard to the transport sector, in the scenarios that we have studied, and for which 95% reduction is needed, the evolution rather than an increased mobility demand, as expected, will have to move in the opposite direction by 20 % more by 2050 in a business-as-usual scenario. Compared to 2010, there should be a reduction in mobility demand. This can be achieved, inter alia, by means of a different policy on spatial planning. This is not exactly a federal matter, but it is nevertheless crucial. It is important to create denser, more compact cities, which reduces mobility needs in terms of passenger kilometres travelled. This requires, not only of course, but also, a change in the behaviour of the population. These are just examples of large levers that could exist in policy. I certainly do not regard this as a complete analysis, I just want to give an idea of what could be done. The modal shift will also have to continue if the transport sector is to contribute to decarbonisation. You yourself see a very strong increase in the share of public transport in 2030 and 2050: trains, buses, trams, metros and a corresponding reduction in cars, vans and motorcycles. So we will not have to travel 50% of our journeys by bike or on foot. As you can see, the contribution of bicycles and steps is still quite limited in this analysis. The levers are obvious when it comes to promoting alternative modes of transport. This has a great deal to do with infrastructure, investment and supply, both for public transport and for cyclists and pedestrians. In reducing the use of the car, taxation can play a role in its different dimensions. I will not mention the discussion about the commercial vehicles here. It is not just about reducing mobility demand or modal shift, but also about a technological shift. Here are the figures from our scenarios. The full phase-out on horizon 2050 of cars with an internal combustion engine and replace them with electric cars or cars with hydrogen fuel cells. The so-called hybrid plug-in electric cars have no place in our 95 % scenario, where they would occur in a reference scenario. For the gradual phasing-out in 2030, more than half of the number of vehicles on the road is still visible. For the total phase-out on horizon 2050, the classic fossil fuel combustion engine is replaced by electric vehicles and hydrogen-powered vehicles. When talking about hydrogen, important levers are the loading and storage infrastructure. Tax measures can also play a role. Research and development are also still relevant for increasing battery storage and for other technological components necessary for the breakthrough of electric vehicles. I have said a few times that investment is very important. I was just talking about the transport sector, but that also applies to the buildings. The renovation of existing buildings takes place today at a rate of 1% of the building park per year. That's the average. If we want the building sector to contribute to our 95 percent reduction scenario, then the renovation rate should almost triple. Between now and 2050 2.6 % of the heritage should be renewed annually. Of course, there may not be any kind of renovation. This must be done in a way that is coherent with an energy-efficient future. Energy consumption should be reduced by almost three quarters compared to 2010 per m2, which is not a technological problem. New homes are already under there, if the rules are followed. It is therefore not a technological problem, but it is a question of using the right levers to encourage or support families and/or businesses, when it comes to tertiary buildings, in making significant investments. Subsidies play an important role in this, as do low-cost loans. Public institutions can play a role in this. Last week we were introduced to a French proposal, which is widely supported by many high-ranking people, including in politics, for a European climate finance pact. These components include, on the one hand, subsidising and, on the other hand, granting free or cheap loans through the European Investment Bank. Of course, there are also many possibilities for the financial markets, the private markets, to play a role in this. The level at which investment is to be made in terms of, for example, isolation is, of course, regulatory and standardisation. I would also like to comment on the way in which we will heat our homes by 2050. Instead of largely heating with gas and fuel oil, and here and there with coal, we will have to heat most of our homes in the reference scenario, namely 80% of our homes, using alternative technologies, such as heat pumps and/or other electronic heating. There is still a part of gas and fuel oil left, but most of this energy will have to be renewable. Heat pumps can play an important role in this. I will not go into the analysis of the various industrial sectors, but I will show you a graph to indicate that industry will also have to play its role. It is not on the slide, but we naturally assumed that there will be no decroissance, no degrowth, no outgrowth. The economic sectors continue to grow or remain at the level of the baseline scenario. Very important efforts will be needed to increase the efficiency of the processes and alternative processes will also need to be deployed. Carbon capture and storage plays an important role in our scenarios in the blue bar below the zero line on the right of the 2050 scenario. However, I cannot go into this in detail. For a very large part, this is covered by the scope of European policy through the ETS, with which I naturally do not ignore the fact that the infrastructure needed for carbon capture and storage may require important federal and regional policy efforts. Support through research and development can also be more than relevant to help the sector achieve the reduction pathways. Allow me to allow myself to make one conclusion. It is difficult to draw any conclusions from my speech, which I have already had to compress and for which I needed too much time, but what I personally think is an absolute condition for making progress with a view to formulating the policy in all its necessary details at all levels of policy and in a way consistent with any long-term objective, is a long-term strategy and vision that is scientifically based and can be based on scenarios such as those we have calculated and updating. I read yesterday that a new consortium of scientific institutions is doing similar exercises. However, a science-based policy is necessary, with careful consideration of what is possible and necessary, with which sectors and which levers. There must be a social and political debate that is part of it, of course, so that it does not remain with semi-theoretic emission pathways prescribed by experts, but that there can be an interaction with all policy actors in the sectors. I always feel inspired by the way in which in the Netherlands the shorter-term objectives have been met, with the polder model. Of course, this should not necessarily be copied in Belgium, but an in-depth, far-reaching and very wide-ranging social debate is desirable. It is a system transition, it is the whole system, so everyone must be involved. One can only look at the whole, so the strategy and vision for the whole system must be integrated and integrated. It must be about everything, it must not just be about it. I have, of course, done too much about the environment and energy sectors, which are expected to solve the climate problem. For example, the question of how financial markets will be invested in the direction of low-carbon technologies and in the direction of the renovation of buildings should also be addressed. We must have an integrated and integrated approach. The aspects of policy coherence are of course extremely important, so that different initiatives and levers do not contradict each other, but try to strengthen each other. Finally, the vision must be robust. I mean that it should provide sufficient security for all actors in society, who should have started taking action in 2005. I have not yet mentioned the local authorities, but of course they also play a role. They must be able to count on a robust framework, which will not change dramatically in five or ten years' time. Of course, in our country, the governance aspect of the complex whole also deserves due attention. With this conclusion I would like to conclude and thank you for your attention and your time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1048x.u4	We thank you for your comprehensive and detailed presentation. I suppose we can get the slides. After all, this was quite a sandwich. We try to absorb as much information as possible, but in this area everyone's possibilities are somewhat limited when it comes to 90 slides. So we will certainly have to study that. I shall now give the floor to the Minister for her speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1048x.u5	Mr President, I thank Mr Wittoeck for making a very broad panel of the whole of the problem we are tackling and the framework in which we are working, which shows that we are in a great time. Indeed, it is the time of all the challenges and dangers. But it must be pointed out that what makes room for some statements, sometimes based on the desire to scare and freeze action, is that it is also a time in which we have tools. Today we are able to use them to work decisively during a decade. All the indicators in my administration's very broad presentation show that, if we put a decisive, robust, integrated blow with all segments of our society (civil society, industries, administrations, politics), we can reach a level of commitment such as from 2030 – that is, of course, the goal we are pursuing – the virtuous effect of all the measures we have taken in an integrated and strong manner will give us a significant result, this time in a virtuous circle. We're really at a crossroads. Mr President, please correct me if I am wrong. Two specific questions were addressed to me. I was asked to report to the committee on the status of the 2013-2020 burden sharing and the National Energy-Climate Plan at the federal level. This has already been partly done by Mr. Wittoeck, which may lead to some repetitions. I'm sorry, but it's the law of this kind of exercise. I would prefer Mr Wittoeck to begin his presentation, knowing that he was going to put him back in the general framework of the Paris Agreement and that he was right to take advantage of it to present us with the ideas which, I am sure, will be very interesting for all the political representatives present here, in order to chart prospects in the period in which we are leading us to the formation of a new federal executive and new regional executive, a political pole which has in charge the creation of the favourable framework for the development of all the robust initiatives which are necessary. As far as the federal level is concerned, I recall the government agreement of 9 October 2014, which details the accompanying role of the federal government. I quote: "By pursuing a policy of accompanying the taxation of biofuels, bicycles, product standards, federal energy efficient public buildings and railways, the government will support the Regions in their climate policy and atmospheric policy. With planned offshore wind energy, this accompanying policy will be the federal contribution to the achievement of the European Union's 2020 climate and energy package's Belgian objectives." With regard to the recent context, I would like to remind you that the National Climate Commission was chaired by the Flemish Region until the end of 2018. It is currently under the chairmanship of the Brussels Region. Under the Flemish Presidency, two meetings were held, one in February 2018 to establish a programme, the other in November to validate the National Energy-Climate Plan, which we transferred the draft to the European Commission. I will start with the cooperation agreement on burden sharing. The Cooperation Agreement is the legal text containing the transposition of the December 2015 political agreement on burden sharing 2013-2020. I would point out that it took a considerable amount of time before this agreement was concluded, more precisely six years according to one, and eight years according to the other, but, in any event, far too much to be able to establish climate governance in Belgium in order to meet our European obligations on the 2013-2021 tranche. This legal text (which you know since it was adopted not only by our Parliament but also by all the other Parliaments of this country (seven in total), the Council of State having considered it a mixed agreement) contains several articles of interest to the federal government. According to Article 9, which is set out in Section 2 on policies and measures of the Federal State, the Federal State undertakes, for the period of compliance, first, to pursue the existing internal policies and measures referred to in Annex 5 of the Cooperation Agreement, which allow for a total reduction of emissions, estimated at 15,250 kilotonnes of CO2 equivalent. In this context, the federal government may replace a policy or measure with another equivalent domestic policy where the policy or measure results in emission reductions at least equal to the emission reductions of the original policy or measure. The reduction resulting from the policy or equivalent measure shall be calculated in accordance with a methodology previously approved by the National Climate Commission. Second, the federal state is committed to adopting and implementing new internal policies and measures, resulting in an additional reduction to 15,250 kilotonnes of oil equivalent of 7,000 kilotonnes of CO2 equivalent for the period 2016-2020 inclusive, in line with the linear nature of the regional effort to reduce emissions. The federal state therefore implements all measures to achieve the objective and identifies its additional policies and measures and the reduction associated with them, calculated in accordance with the methodology I have just mentioned. Article 16, § 1 should also be given our attention. He indicated that the Minister responsible for climate at the federal level annually submits a report on policies and measures to the National Climate Commission. This includes an overview of their planning and implementation. Section 16 also provides that the federal climate minister collects the regional and federal data necessary for the annual assessment of the impact of these policies and measures and develops the methodologies referred to in section 9 I have mentioned. An article 24, in subsection 2, states that the National Climate Commission may request the federal state to submit an action plan consisting of internal corrective measures, if the report I have just referred to in article 16 highlights the fact that the federal state may fail to achieve the objective. The National Climate Commission shall assess, by 31 December 2022 at the latest, whether the Federal State has achieved its objective referred to in Article 9. What achievements can be put on the federal agenda from a regulatory perspective? The federal authority continued to implement existing policies and measures (15,250 kilotonnes of CO2 equivalent) through the promotion of biofuels - Mr Wittoeck mentioned this -, through the promotion of public transport, through tax cuts for energy-saving investments in enterprises. In addition, a new set of six new federal policies and measures that result in additional emission reductions in the field of product and transport policy has been identified to meet our commitments under the cooperation agreement burden sharing 2013-2020. These are the following measures: - the introduction of the "positive mobility" allowance, which you are familiar with; - the promotion of the use of electric bicycles; - the reduction in the consumption of traction and non-traction energy (excluding electricity) of SNCB; - the new excise duty regime for petrol and diesel; - reducing the consumption of fossil fuels from the implementation of the Ecodesign Directive for the categories of equipment having an impact on the non-ETS sector; - the implementation of the Regulation on fluorinated greenhouse gases (517/2014). These new policies and measures, in accordance with the legal text of the Burden sharing agreement for the federal level, were officially transmitted to the National Climate Commission on 19 April 2017. What are the results of the measures implemented by the federal government for the period 2013-2020? You have also seen the diagrams that were presented by Mr Wittoeck. The current and future impact of these different measures has been assessed in a study that is available on climate.be. I can give you the link, unless Mr. Wittoeck can project it so that everyone can see it. According to this study, the federal contribution to the emission reductions generated by the implementation of federal policies and measures is cumulatively for the period 2013-2020, at 86.6 million tonnes equivalent to CO2, given that 61% of these reductions, i.e. 53 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent, are obtained in the non-ETS sector and 39%, i.e. 33.6 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent, are obtained in the ETS sector. Here I have a very detailed picture of this study, by policy and measure, in ETS and non-ETS, and for the period 2013-2020 in non-ETS. We can communicate it to you immediately. I turn now to the report provided for in Article 16, which I mentioned above. It states that the Minister responsible for climate at the federal level shall submit annually to the National Climate Commission a report on policies and measures initiated in accordance with Article 9. I mentioned the study that allows us to use the methodology, evaluate and make this report. This study covers the whole period 2013-2020. It serves as a reference for each annual reporting. This report is discussed in a Policy and Measures Working Group of the National Climate Commission, which also includes representatives of regional administrations. The annexes contain some important elements that I would like to highlight. These annexes have been attached to the legal text of the agreement on burden sharing 2013-2020. I would particularly like to mention annexes 4 and 5. Annex 4 deals with the agreement on the refinement of energy data produced by the federal government. It adopts, in consultation with the Regions, by means of an energy balance working group, within the framework of the CONCERE administration, which brings together the federal and regional administrations, the Royal Decree of 11 March 2003, which organises the collection of data on the preparation of the oil balance for the annual supply of fuel sales data by type of fuel (petrol, diesel, LPG) and by Region, in accordance with the extended Interdepartmental Conference on the Environment of 12 November 2015. He's already done it. On this basis, the Directorate-General for Energy of the SPF Economy, SMEs, Middle Classes and Energy carries out the following analyses, which are of two kinds. This is, first, a validation of the data and a possible refinement of the subdivision into sectors of the oil balance and, second, an analysis and comparison of the results of the regional collection of fuel sales data, in accordance with the Royal Decree of 11 March 2003. In accordance with Article 9 of the Burden Sharing Agreement, a commitment has been made to take all necessary measures to minimize excess fuel, including through data exchange. The FPS Finance shall transmit annually to the ad hoc Working Party on Road Transport an analysis of the evolution of excise duties by fuel. The Energy DG of the Economy FPS compares these fuel prices with those of neighbouring countries. The FPS Finance then forwards a database annually to the working group. It concerns the statement of reimbursement of professional diesel in litres and euros, with a subdivision between Belgian and foreign companies. In addition, an in-depth analysis of the oil balance figures is carried out as soon as the fuel surplus exceeds 10 per cent. This means that the working group informs the DG in this case. The last point relates to the harmonisation of the oil balance sheet with the FPS Finance data as a guarantee for the years 2013-2020. Annex 5 refers to the policies and measures of the Federal State – also in accordance with Article 9, which is the regulatory basis we observe – concerning the sectors covered by Decision No 406/2009 of the European Commission. On the basis of the answers we will provide, we will be able to explore all the elements of this table relating to residential, renewable energy sources, transport, industry and the tertiary sector. In the first part, you find the tax deductibility for investment in energy savers. In the second, you have the new percentages of biofuel. For transport, a target has been set to increase the number of passengers and goods transported by rail. In addition, quantified objectives have been incorporated into SNCB's management contracts. In addition, the investment plan for the years 2013-2025. Also for transport, there is also an intervention in public transport costs for commuters as well as the agreement of the paying third party. As far as industry is concerned, investment by companies in energy-saving companies is tax-deductible. In addition, excise duties may be reduced under branch agreements. For the tertiary sector, you have: - the energy renovation of federal buildings you know well; - the promotion of multimodal freight transport; - the promotion of carpooling; - promotion of the use of bicycles (indemnity per kilometre and tax deductibility); - the regulatory framework for tax measures to promote telework; - car taxation for company vehicles, based in particular on CO2. I will end with the residential and tertiary sector to tell you that, in this context, you have an increased strengthening of product standards and the installation of photovoltaic panels on public buildings. For the sectors covered by another directive, you have Ecodesign regulations other than boilers and stoves and therefore the strengthening of standards in order to achieve health and/or environmental objectives in the residential and tertiary sectors. For the renewable energy sector - you saw yesterday again that the new Norther wind farm was starting to produce - you have the measures that contribute to the renewables target on the basis of the current configuration and that will lead us in 2020 to a installed capacity in the North Sea of 2.2 GW. You also have the revision of the mechanism to support the production of offshore wind turbines. We have done so under this legislature and we have drastically reduced the support provided to wind farms operators, which, while easing the consumer's bill, will nevertheless and fortunately allow the installation of the last capacity that will lead us in 2020 to the power of 2.2 GW. And you have the deployment until 2030 - I am going a little bit further but it is a continuity compared to the macro tables that were presented by Mr Wittoeck - with an additional capacity of 1.8 GW on the basis this time of the competition introduced in the framework of public procurement and on a territory of 221 km2 in our North Sea. We also believe that we could still develop a small band of land of 80 km2 right next to this 221 km2 band. This project requires a study. I think that at that time we will really have filled our little North Sea as much as possible, but we will have shown through this, since we are very well classified internationally in terms of offshore development, that we were pioneers in this area. I would add that next door and on the plate that will soon be generating Rentel electricity, we have planned to develop the sea port. The plug allows wind farms that will be installed by 2020 to connect via Elia via a plug installed at sea. It will allow us to connect with other offshore parks in the North Sea, with other countries around us, namely the Netherlands, Denmark, Great Britain and Germany. As a result, we have also strengthened our transmission network on earth. I now turn to the National Energy-Climate Plan, the second question I was asked. This plan and all its annexes were submitted in draft on 31 December 2018, i.e. within the time limits laid down in the Governance Regulation. In fact, we are one of the first European countries to succeed, despite our institutional complexity, which is changing every day towards a better - I dare say so - to pass on our plan to Europe. As Mr Wittoeck has told you in detail, we are in contact with the European Commission to work on this plan and to receive its recommendations in order to improve it. On the other hand, you also know that there has been a powerful trigger from civil society to further enhance our capacity to improve our internal governance. Within this framework, the four levels of power have the will to further increase our ambitions set out in the National Energy-Climate Plan and to increase our interaction with the European Commission so that our National Energy-Climate Plan, final this time, which will be validated at the end of our discussions with the Commission, will be even more robust. You know that the current draft of the National Energy-Climate Plan is public and available on the websites of the National Climate Commission and the SPF Economy, DG Energy. You also know that the European Commission has six months to make its recommendations. As their name suggests, these are not binding, but I would like to stress that the Governance Regulation provides that Member States must take this into account in their final plan for the end of this year. Pending the results of the Commission's examination and the interaction between Belgium and the Commission on this subject, the emphasis is now on public consultation. Indeed, this project must be subject to public consultation at national level, in accordance with Articles 10 and 11 of the Governance Rules, and at regional level with our neighbouring countries and regional partner organisations, in accordance with Article 12 of the Governance Rules. As invited, the relevant regional and federal advisory bodies are in the process of developing a joint recommendation by the end of May. The general public will be consulted very soon, at the end of March, as part of a national public consultation via social and internet networks. There are also consultation processes in the regions concerning their specific plans. In addition to the national consultation processes, neighbouring countries and regional partners within the Benelux framework, and by extension the Pentalateral Forum, will also be consulted within the framework of the regional energy-climate dialogue, more specifically on the cross-border aspects of this dialogue, as we established them at the end of last year. In short, the calendar is summarized as follows. At the end of February, the final questionnaire was forwarded to the external body chosen for the consultation, for final verification. At the end of March, the public consultation was launched. Six weeks for reactions. In July, the results will be provided by the consulting office responsible for this consultation process. Thanks to this public consultation, thanks to the work of this Parliament, the intervention of all interest groups, the general public, neighbouring countries, regional partners, we will have an additional enrichment that will allow us to continue the dialogue with the European Commission, to have all the elements to finalise our plan and to have the guide for our low carbon transition 2030 and 2050. As a Member State, we must also prepare the long-term strategy. We have largely echoed this through what has been said by Mr Wittoeck. In this framework – which is more of a framework of perspective – all the conclusions and all the wealth from the work we have launched at the level of all the stakeholders of each level of power relative to carbon pricing allow us today to have a highly developed and encrypted data bank – notably with the Plan Office and an external consultant – so that we can think about how best to involve all sectors and to act on all vectors in order to have a low carbon economy in 2050. As a Member State, we are preparing this long-term strategy, which is also an obligation under the Governance Regulation by 1 January 2020. Preparations for the establishment of a working group dedicated to this strategy are under way within the National Climate Commission and the CONCERE-ENOVER energy consultation. Parliament's contribution to the PNEC processes and long-term strategy is greatly appreciated and the interparliamentary work on the climate, in particular through the interparliamentary resolution that you have taken, is an inspiration for us. There is a summary of Belgium's main objectives as reflected in the National Energy-Climate Plan, which has already been planned by Mr Wittoeck. The indicative list of federal accompanying measures in support of regional measures under the draft 2030 National Energy-Climate Plan is quite long. I will go through it as briefly as possible. We will be able to come back to this in more detail in the context of the questions. Apart from accompanying measures, the federal state does not have autonomous powers in climate matters. Within the framework of this policy of accompanying the Regions towards the effective achievement of the joint climate objectives in Belgium, the Federal State undertakes to continue the existing internal policies and measures and to implement the measures called for in the National Energy-Climate Plan. It's a quote from this Plan. By the end of March 2019 – that's what we're doing – the federal government will review the requests that the Regions have sent to it as part of their contribution to the Plan, update the lists of accompanying federal measures and quantify them in terms of minimum means and results for federal buildings and vehicles as well as for the SNCB. Federal measures will also be updated in successive evaluations of the National Energy-Climate Plan. This concerns long-term follow-up. For the decarbonisation and energy efficiency dimension, I start with the energy sector. Federal policies and measures are linked to the federal government's renewable energy jurisdiction. On the one hand, it is the obligation to incorporate sustainable biofuels into the transport of diesel and petrol and, on the other hand, to continue the development of offshore wind energy. With regard to the incorporation of biofuels, the mixture of materials must be 14% biofuel; in addition, it must be effective in 2030. This process is followed to verify the technical tenability of a high and ambitious mixture such as this one. It will be evaluated every two years and monitored through planning. An inter-federal plan is also developed and monitored at the enterprise level to achieve these objectives. The technical tenability of this development is monitored online, in compliance with our European obligations. This is a particular point of attention for the European Commission, with which it is the subject of continuous exchanges. With regard to the other measures, we are putting in place a technical and regulatory framework to allow the injection of biogas, synthetic gas and hydrogen into existing infrastructures, a practice which is already widespread at the Fluxys level. In terms of energy efficiency, we are continuing work on optimization, including work on building infrastructure (including the building that houses my firm) as well as on gas and electricity infrastructure at the level of transmission and gas system operators. As far as the Ministry of Defence is concerned, a dialogue has been established on the installation of onshore wind turbines around the currently closed military zones as well as the areas around the airports. In the plan for the development of marine areas for the period 2020-2026, we have set up several zones for industrial and commercial activities, areas which can directly or indirectly contribute to the achievement of national energy and climate objectives. As far as the federal level is concerned, you know that, by 2040, all federal buildings will have to be energy neutral. To meet and achieve this 40 per cent scenario, we are currently quantifying measures in terms of means and results, although restoration and renovation work is already underway in this area, but we really want rigorous planning for all of our buildings, which leads us to this effort of minus 40 per cent. As regards the installation of boilers, this aspect concerns both the regional and the federal level, in particular with regard to accompanying measures with the Regions and the scenario of a gradual ban on the placing on the market and/or installation of boilers using fossil fuels from 2035 onwards. Here, the federal power can act in terms of taxation and VAT, and we are assessing whether the scope of the reduced VAT rate of 6% in the context of renovation and demolition and reconstruction of buildings can be the subject of a plan with pilot cities that would be selected to test our ability to renovate our building and to include efficient heating - heating which will be all the more efficient as the building will be properly isolated. In concrete terms, I met with the General Confederation of Construction Trades in Batibouw two days ago. I realized that it was clearly pleading for the destruction of buildings that were difficult to renovate, for the construction of new buildings and for the generalisation of a VAT rate of 6% for these reconstructions, knowing that the reconstruction is immediately much more efficient and probably, in the long term, much less costly in insulation of the building and heating, which reduces greenhouse gases. I am continuing with the federal level and the entry into force on January 1, 2019 of an optional scheme for submitting to VAT the rental of new buildings, used in the context of the economic activity of the taxable lessee. This measure can also speed up the renovation of the Belgian professional housing stock by allowing a significant reduction in VAT due on the costs of new constructions. In the area of the construction of federal buildings, we are trying, as you know, to ensure that our buildings are neutral by 2040, but in addition to this, we must consider the reduction in the non-traction energy consumption of SNCB and Infrabel. It should be noted that between 2005 and 2017, SNCB reduced its non-traction energy consumption by 17.5%, which is not nothing. This effort will continue in the years to come. Between 2016 and 2022, SNCB is aiming for an additional 7% reduction. Defence also participates in this plan as part of the management of its infrastructure. It shall comply with the laws of the European Parliament and of the Council. Within its budgetary limits, it has, in particular, the objective of applying neutral energy performance in its new and assimilated buildings as from 1 January 2019. It also wants to improve the energy efficiency of existing buildings, as part of small renovations, with a view to reducing fuel and gas consumption. The Régie des Bâtiments is not left behind and has a table designed to measure its energy efficiency, which can be sent to you at your request. In terms of energy consumption, it should be noted that the SPF Economy commissioned a study to determine the stock of installed appliances, defining their energy class and label. The aim is obviously, within the framework of the National Energy-Climate Plan, to study possible political developments based on the European Energy Label and to assess its potential in terms of energy savings. Regional policies are supported by the federal government. We have prepared a feasibility study to establish an energy inventory or cadastre of Belgian real estate assets in the public and private sectors, both qualitatively and quantitatively. Although you know that, as Mr Wittoeck has mentioned, I will remind you that the National Pact for Strategic Investments foresees that most public investment will focus on the in-depth renovation of public buildings. According to the Pact, by 2030, this will amount to 17 billion in linear investment projections, including 1.65 billion for federal public buildings, or 150 million euros per year. In mobility and transport, promoting and regulating alternative fuels, such as biofuels, strengthening their sustainability criteria at European level, and limiting the use of problematic alternatives by gradually excluding them, is a fundamental policy for the federal government. Together with the Regions, we want to promote electrification of transport – especially cars and bicycles. To this end, we are studying with them, and in consultation with the Member States of the European Union, the introduction of a mechanism to ensure a transition to carbon-free energy, both nationally and internationally. In this register, we will strengthen emission standards in the maritime sector. You saw that with Minister De Backer, we had recently organized an international symposium at the Palais d'Egmont on the preservation of marine environments, in relation to energy production. On that occasion, our attention was drawn to navigation and the impact on biodiversity in marine environments. In Belgium, we have an inter-federal cooperation agreement on sustainable mobility by 2020, taking into account all the policy areas concerned, which are very broad. I say it often and I repeat it – we have had the opportunity to discuss it politically in the media with some of the speakers present here – we consider mobility to be really – it has been demonstrated in Mr Wittoeck's slides – a fundamental issue on which we must put the package, all of which is the federal and the regions, politics, businesses and society. Indeed, it is really the most important vector on which we can weigh in order to achieve our carbon-neutral objectives. This cooperation agreement, like the Inter-federal Energy Pact, is based on an inter-federal vision of mobility which includes a great deal of vectors such as infrastructure, the economy, the environment, energy, spatial planning, taxation and innovation. In this context, always in a cross-section of governance with the Regions, we have a regulatory framework or are currently being developed to propose alternatives to corporate vehicles. This is the mobility budget and the "cash for car" measure, always with a view to continuous improvement in order to meet our objectives. We are trying to reduce the externalities associated with company cars to combat air pollution and congestion and for road safety, by considering further reductions in labour costs and simplification of the system as well as greening the fleet of these cars. For having voted recently, you know that the mobility budget is linked for those who want to keep this company car (wage car) to much higher environmental requirements. For rail, at the federal level, there is an optimisation of rail transport which results in greater competitiveness and a greater meeting of passengers' expectations. To promote a modal shift to rail by improving rail supply – there is still work to be done but we are working on it – significant investments will have to continue to be made in the coming years. There will be the finalisation of the RER for 2031...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1048x.u6	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1048x.u7	Mr. Wittoeck's presentation took some time. I don't know the president's imperatives. I would like to continue until a certain hour and resume on another occasion because I still have things to say. It is an extremely complex subject that deserves all the attention, both in the presentation by the administration and in the policy. What does the president think?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1048x.u8	Colleagues, I understand that the Minister still has until 1:00 p.m. We cannot extend our work beyond 1 p.m., given that the Committee on Health is organising a hearing on the climate law from 1 p.m. on. So I do not think it is possible to work longer than until that time. One possibility is that the Minister will roll out her discourse and we will find a new date where we can ask potentially questions and there is also room for answers. If several Members want to ask questions about all the information that has now been given and the answers to it will undoubtedly take some time, I cannot imagine that we will be able to complete the work before 1 p.m. My proposal would therefore be that the Minister should continue until 1 p.m. and we should be looking for a new session in which the questions could be asked. This also gives the opportunity to study the multitude of information put forward here by both Mr Wittoeck and the Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1048x.u9	Mr President, in this context, I would like to know whether there is any written support for the Minister's presentation that we could have at our disposal in order to prepare our questions. I tried to write it down. Perhaps Mr. Nollet can make his notes available to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1048x.u10	Sir, not only is there written support... what do you say?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1048x.u11	Mr Van Hees asked for Mr Nollet's notes. There's an integral report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1048x.u12	Mr Van Hees, you will have written support which, I am sure, will be the subject of your bedside readings. There is not only written support, but there are also tables. We will have every opportunity to discuss it at a later stage.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1048x.u13	Let's see if there's any support for the inner human being in the form of sandwiches.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1048x.u14	Minister, could you provide us with a written record of your presentation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1048x.u15	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1048x.u16	You're very kind.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1048x.u17	This will allow you to fill your questions in a much more operational way for our next meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1048x.u18	Mr President, Madam Minister, I do not wish to speak here to say that the elements you have developed are not important or interesting. Indeed, this is a list of all the measures you have already put in place and imagine. But the fact is that Mr Wittoeck's presentation leads us to believe that this is insufficient because, if we look at the figures, we find that we are not meeting the targets as they are currently defined, which are themselves insufficient targets. In my opinion, our time is short, and at some point we have to go to the essentials.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1048x.u19	Listen...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1048x.u20	Minister, I have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1048x.u21	I see very well how you politically bring your business!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1048x.u22	Mr President, I think I have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1048x.u23	I'll answer you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1048x.u24	Mr. Nollet, please proceed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1048x.u25	Mr President, I would like to speak on priorities. Indeed, there was an agreement that our work could be organised in parallel with the Climate Committee with the Health Committee where the text is also being examined. We know that a new meeting in the Climate Committee is already set for other hearings. It is expected that we will hear Jean-Pascal van Ypersele, Jos Delbeke and the Climate Coalition on Wednesday 13 March in the morning. Here too we are limited in time since it is expected that we will work on Wednesday afternoon and Thursday morning on the climate law. So I have the impression that we are faced with a desire to occupy a relatively useless space as long as the priorities are elsewhere. I am thinking here of Mr Wittoeck's speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1048x.u26	Mr President, I would like to respond. Mr Nollet, of course I see very well the political position that is yours. This is entirely legitimate since we are in a political forum. But being in constant contact with the young people who demonstrate every Thursday, I have gained experience which leads me to believe that the problem is also a communication problem. I'll tell you how I've been through things very concretely. I invited some of these young people to the conference held at the Palais d'Egmond. So I had the opportunity to talk to them. At the first meeting, the young people let me know that they were waiting for the political world to do something decisively because they had the impression that they were doing nothing. On the occasion of the meeting I had last week, after x events, exchanges and dialogues with the same youth representatives, they immediately informed me that there was a communication problem. This means that they tell me that in reality, by hearing everything that is done at the start of companies, NGOs, political representatives and everything that is moving forward in the world, they have a much more accurate perception of reality and therefore tend to see things at 360 degrees while at first they saw them through a reducing prism. This has been important in the message, in the impulse and in the demand. No one disputes that. Therefore, I find it paradoxical – but as you have used to it, Mr Nollet, I will not take up this way of expressing to you – to say that "it is not that the minister says things that are not of interest to us, but we can still see in the tables that we are not doing it". For my part, even in a very complex situation like the one we live in, I always see the glass half full while you, you always see the glass half empty! Imagine that in order to achieve our goals – which is our stated, reaffirmed, resolute will – we must go through daily action without interruption, for years and for years to come! There is nothing to do, from the moment we enter into a collective responsibility, when we exchange collectively with all segments of society in order to achieve a global result that is the one that humanity must achieve, we have a series of actions that exist, that are growing, that will be accompanied by complementary actions. I explained it with the offshore wind turbine. It is an action; it is the production of renewable energy in the North Sea where we are pioneers in Belgium. It is enough to hear systematically the judgments of saying that we are a few weeks away from the end of an executive's action, that the message shouted in the street is the right message: "Nothing has been done!" That's not true! That's totally wrong! Young people tell me spontaneously that what is missing is communication. From the moment this communication is to be returned, I shall make it my duty to return it properly. I believe that politically, it is a responsibility that we all have to say: "This is what exists. That is what we want to do. This is what we want to commit ourselves to." Mr President, if I may, I do not occupy space. Not at all. I am at the disposal of the commission, even on weekends or during the holidays of Carnival or Easter. I have no problem with that. I've always been extremely available. If you want, we'll answer your questions along, wide and across, even at night or at night if we have to. We've done it before. So I don't think I'm suspect in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1048x.u27	Madam Minister, I do suggest that you continue your speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1048x.u28	Thank you. So I was in rail traffic and the RER. Who pulled the moribund RER file out of his coffin? This government. We have come out of this file so that it can benefit society as a whole, in a term set at 2031. You know that we have equipped our rail network with a safety system, modernised the Brussels-Luxembourg axis, increased the Ghent-Bruges axis, as well as access to Gosselies airport. Several lines have been electrified. These are operational measures in the direction of a more effective and efficient supply to the public. With regard to freight, at the federal and regional level, for the promotion of rail freight transport, in order to increase the modal share of this transport in all of our transports, targeted investments will be made to enhance multimodality: works allowing the circulation of trains of 740 meters, the improvement of rail connections with logistics platforms, the construction or resumption of missing links in the network, the increase of the capacity of the Zeebrugge-Gand axis and the constant improvement of ancillary infrastructure. With regard to measures relating to the operation of the railway network, we are implementing additional priority rules for the rental of train paths and the creation of a neutral body for the promotion of rail freight, by updating a "subside freight" mechanism planned for after 2020 in order to always promote modal shift. In terms of taxation, always in a cross-section between the federal and the regions, the reform of the parafiscal framework promotes sustainable mobility and intermodality. It also plays an important role. At the federal level, we want to allow an annual train subscription to be combined with other active or collective modes for a number of days a year, in order to free those who are spontaneously in favour of multimodality, the reduction of greenhouse gases and the abandonment of individual transport. In this respect, other proposals are flourishing, including the proposal for free transport. She's interesting. At the federal and regional levels, we also insist that the air navigation sector make concrete commitments and develop a roadmap to substantially reduce greenhouse gas emissions for which it is responsible. We want to achieve zero-emission air navigation by 2050, which should be the ambition of all countries, because we also know that we cannot achieve this alone. We want to focus this debate on the European level, which we do. As regards company bicycles and the fight against the theft of bicycles, there are fiscal measures in connection with the Regions. We therefore want to accompany the Regions on this path. For ships and heavy goods vehicles as well as public transport, we want to switch to CNG and LNG technology with the Regions. We also have measures related to them. As far as the car is concerned, at the federal level, we have standardization in terms of tires and fuels. At the federal level, we want to promote and reinforce this policy of shared cars, carpooling and telework. Support for carpooling and carsharing includes the harmonisation and simplification of our tax and parafiscal framework and the organisation of campaigns to promote and raise awareness and support private initiatives, integrating initiatives into mobility. The development of shared autonomous vehicles is also a source of reflection for the future because you see that there are pilot experiments that could be widely developed in our territory. We are also doing so, because it is an eminently regional policy, linked to the Regions. In order also to contribute to the mobility objectives, the Régie des Bâtiments is studying the possibility of providing buildings equipped for electromobility by installing terminals in the "private parks" of the buildings, as well as at the railway stations for the SNCB. As far as the link with the rail is concerned, all that is off traction in the SNCB concerns these buildings. The aim is also to reduce traction energy consumption (when trains run) by 4% per passenger-kilometre in 2022 compared to the existing standard in 2017. We also want to think about reducing the costs of electricity used for rail transport; in consultation with the rail sector, taking into account the European legal framework, the federal government is examining the continuation of subsidies for rail freight after 2020. For air and maritime navigation, the federal government is studying emissions from sectors in Belgium and analysing measures to reduce greenhouse gas-emitting fuel, continuing to advocate internationally for zero-emission shipping by 2050 and zero-emission shipping in the same term. In terms of investment aid, the National Pact for Strategic Investments foresees that most investment will focus on the maintenance and development of integrated transport networks and services. The total investment for these proposals is estimated at between €20 billion and €24 billion. The cost of maintenance is estimated at EUR 9 billion and the cost of network development at EUR 13 billion. Of this amount, $7 billion comes from investments in rail infrastructure for goods and people, $2 billion in inland waterways and $3 billion in other transport projects. Be aware that 14% come from private sources, including public-private partnership structures and/or toll modes. As regards industry, for the Federal and the Regions, we want to continue to support, at the federal level, companies under energy contracts or under industry agreements that encourage industry to reduce emissions and to be more energy-efficient so that the efforts of these industries, which are already well present, continue and intensify by 2030, taking naturally into account the competitiveness and the need to find themselves in a favourable competitive position within the European Union. As part of a continuous improvement, there is a report that needs to be done in order to see how fossil substances are finally done, which remains a delicate point. As far as the circular economy is concerned, you know that we have a federal plan and we are working with the Regions to update and implement a national map of the circular economy. We are developing an action plan with the F-gas regions, including product standards and their use. We also want to propose a life-cycle analysis, which maps total CO2 production throughout the life cycle, and integrate this analysis into a standard sustainability test. For us, this analysis must in any case be applied to products that promote energy efficiency and products or parts necessary for the production of renewable energy. This action must also be seen as a sub-action of the implementation of methods for calculating the environmental footprint of products, in order to avoid impact transfers and to have an overall view of this issue. With regard to the cross-cutting measures and the fiscal and financial instruments that we want to have, the aim is to shift the loads of less fossil raw materials to more fossil raw materials. That is to say, we want a shift to be made through taxation. As indicated, these are our guidelines for less fossil fuels. We want to encourage tax incentives for the use of these materials. We aim at the gradual disappearance of support for fossil fuels, and coherent financial flows with a transition to a low-carbon society. To conclude my presentation, I come to the work that we have done on carbon pricing and on all the sources of inspiration and perspectives that we can draw from this work. The study published at the end of June 2018, at the federal level, consists of an exploratory research into the possibilities of carbon pricing including a carbon tax. It can be a tax instrument, the impact of which could be significant for the various non-ETS sectors, including transport, construction, industry and agriculture. However, further studies on practical implementation and feasibility are obviously still needed, given the division of responsibilities - but we are moving forward - and the distribution of revenues between the Regions and the federal government, for the sake of avoiding transfer effects. The federal measure needs to benefit the federal government and regional measures need to benefit the regions, although in the end, overall, there is an integration of all these measures to help achieve a common objective. It goes without saying that if a possible shift takes place, as we want, it will obviously be necessary to respect the principle of budgetary neutrality. This is the guideline that was cited earlier by Mr. Wittoeck. The federal government first issued green linear bonds in February 2018 in this context. Their benefits will be allocated exclusively to public expenditure aimed at the transition to a sustainable economy. The new eligible expenditure for the period 2021-2030 will be identified in the field of transport, energy and buildings, on the basis of this plan, the inter-federal energy pact and the national strategic investment pact. At the international level, we will put an end to financial investment in and support for fossil fuels in conjunction with the other Member States of the European Union. In Belgium, we will ask the National Bank to devote a thematic chapter to the impact of climate change on the Belgian economy in finance. The role of the authorities as an example is not in vain. The federal government has a fleet and real estate procurement policy and management in line with the carbon-neutral targets by 2040. We have examples in Defence, at SNCB, at Infrabel, and at the Régie des Bâtiments. You know that because I've already said it. We also want to maximize the production and use of renewable energy through the placement of solar photovoltaic panels on public buildings. We want to integrate sustainable development into all administrative contracts. It is already under way in public procurement, as I have already said. We want to set the right example in the policy of purchasing equipment and equipment, and to optimise the criteria for public tendering by means of a carbon clause. Digital operation is very helpful to us. We want to continue and step up the digitization of the operation of public services at the federal level, as well as the rationalization of procedures by single windows and paperless offices, etc. With regard to governance, we have instruments, such as the Burden Sharing Agreement, the National Energy-Climate Plan and the Interfederal Energy Pact. For international cooperation, we want to remain international pioneers. We know that we are - it deserves to be stressed, because we must be proud of what we are able to achieve - with regard to the offshore and circular economy through waste sorting, but not yet by a true circular economy worthy of that name. We also want to ensure a fair contribution from our country in terms of climate finance. The flagship actions to this end are as follows. First of all, there is the annual contribution to climate finance, which is growing over the years, whether we want it or not, and which, of course, will still be considered by some as insufficient. However, this contribution continues to grow and will certainly grow further in the near future. The second flagship action is the implementation of the federal contribution to the national adaptation plan, adopted on 28 October 2016, and its updates. In terms of energy security, there is still considerable work to be done on our infrastructure, namely the functioning of the energy market, the expansion and extension of our production fleet, particularly through the CRM (which will come to committee on 12 March), with the aim of allowing us to continue to ensure security of supply in the context of the energy transition and during this transition, at the lowest level in terms of carbon emissions. Our infrastructure must therefore remain efficient, also in terms of interconnection. You have heard about the new Nemo interconnection and, by the end of this year, we will have a direct interconnection with Germany, Allegro. Thanks to the implementation of these interconnections, we also have possibilities on the high-voltage transport network for increasing the efficiency of our infrastructures. Finally, with regard to gas, investments are planned with Fluxys for the period 2018-2027, up to EUR 549 million, with the aim of significantly improving the efficiency of the gas transport infrastructure. These investments are made for the period 2020-2030. With regard to energy poverty and the fight against energy insecurity, we have a plan to fight to support and help all those in energy poverty within each entity of the Belgian house. Energy poverty is not an isolated fact. It is part of poverty. We know that, unfortunately, poverty is still too widespread in Belgium. The approach to poverty must be taken at source through the development of tools aimed at making homes more energy efficient and thereby reducing the pressure on energy bills. An anti-poverty plan is drawn up within each entity and includes measures aimed at drastically reducing consumption, which will necessarily have a lower impact on the bill itself. The highest priority must be given to reducing consumption and energy efficiency. I have seen, for example, the Walloon Region, most recently, develop a major plan to reconfigurate insulation premiums based on a prior energy audit and a steering wheel of manoeuvres in terms of subsidies for social housing, in order to aim for greater efficiency of social housing in Wallonia. The same plan with differences also exists in Flanders since for any building that will be purchased, the buyer and the seller will have to provide a better insulation of the roof in order to have a linear plan of insulation of the roofs in Flanders. That's what I saw recently. An inter-federal platform will be created for the coherence of projects and activities funded by the various entities. It is also the role of the federal government in coordinating the policies of the different entities, in order to create synergies between the different research centres and to enable the dissemination of information on research programmes and studies. Progress reports and conclusions will be made available to higher education, academic institutions, companies and organisations active in the field of energy from a communication perspective this time. With regard to technological innovations, I would point out that the Federal Government has established the Energy Transition Fund, which receives annual funding of at least EUR 20 million until 2025, in order to support innovative technologies in the production and storage of energy. Its budget for 2018 is EUR 30 million. In addition, it will be able to feed, as a subsidy, projects that meet all the conditions I have just mentioned. We have also developed a very important part of supporting the continuation of nuclear research: the MYRRHA project. Belgium, which is a pioneer and very well positioned internationally in this field, is still undertaking the necessary research with a view to finding innovative solutions for the treatment of highly radioactive waste and the qualification of fusion reactor materials. This maintenance of skills must also ensure and develop the production on our soil of a commodity that is internationally appreciated, namely radioisotopes whose impact on the traceability of cancerous tumours and the treatment of patients is tremendous. I will end with the question of competitiveness. Don't take it the wrong way, Mr President, but we have not been able to continue working on a certain topic - since I recall that we are in the business of day-to-day, following the departure of a party - on the contrary, the regional governments that will work on it until the last day. One of the fundamental issues on which we could work together, and which is now postponed to the next legislature - which is very close, so let us not make it a tragedy - is the energy standard. It concerns competitiveness, the object of the common work of the Federal and the Regions which relates to all vectors drawing this standard. I am talking about the floor and ceiling between which the cost of energy must evolve so that our companies can remain competitive. It should be noted that this cost is made up of criteria and elements that fall either within the exclusive jurisdiction of the federal or the Regions for four of them. It is not only a work within each level of power but also an integrated work with the Regions. This energy standard therefore has the merit of being initiated under this government, but it must continue to be worked with other entities in this country, as well as the impact on household purchasing power. Why? Making our businesses competitive must be done in a subtle and well-targeted way, with financial support that is then taken over by the community, either the State Budget (i.e. everyone) or the energy consumer budget (i.e. almost everyone). This subtle balancing exercise, which must enable our companies to perform well, must also allow households, consumers and the State budget to remain, as well, preserved and competitive. What will help us – I will end with that, Mr President – is obviously a drastic investment policy. Recently, I met with a think tank leader who is studying collaborative and systemic solutions. One of the problems that scares us – even though I always say we must not be afraid – in the enormous challenges that lie before us and that force us to act decisively and strongly for at least the next ten years, is that we must do everything at the same time. We need to act on all vectors at the same time. I believe that we must also communicate that it is possible when all vectors work at the same time while everyone has part of the solution. When you put companies together, companies with civil society, companies with public authorities, each has a part of the solution, sometimes redundantly, sometimes exclusively. It is this pool that must be supported, supervised and driven because it is the key to success. By getting it all together, everyone at our level, we're going to find a set of solutions, not parallel, but networked - and that's the network that's going to win. I really wanted to end up there, because I think that's the solution. I have asked myself a thousand times the question, and I have always come to the same answer: the only way to do this is to network it all. How can I do it? I'm coming to the meeting I made a few days ago. People think about it and implement pilot experiments on specific territories, whether in town planning, in exchange for energy between companies on zonings, etc. All this works together to show that it is possible. In my opinion, this example effect gives us the key to the solution. Thank you. We've both been long, but the subject is exciting. He is passionate about us, and we wanted to share with you all possible elements of reflection before moving on to the questions and answers. I imagine that this exchange will take place at a later date. My co-worker will propose you a few dates.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1048x.u29	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We will see when a new session can be scheduled to proceed to the questions and answers. The Home Affairs Committee will meet here in four minutes. The meeting of the Health Commission is also about to start. I fear that we will have to finish our work today. We're gonna look for a next date, but I'm gonna add that that won't be easy. A possible solution could be to put some of the questions in writing, for example. Is the committee prepared to do so? In this way we can make things a little more efficient. Or would it be preferable to schedule a new moment with the Minister and Mr Wittoeck to raise the questions and get answers to them?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1048x.u30	Mr President, I have no difficulty in asking questions in writing, but I think it would be important to make that very specific, otherwise we could perhaps get 2 or 3 pages, which we really have nothing to do with. That is the only call I would make to everyone, if everyone agrees.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1048x.u31	Mr. Chairman, I also think the minister appreciates the dialogue. I therefore also prefer that the questions can be asked orally because this is a more dynamic and lively way of doing things. In addition, this makes it possible to adapt as questions and answers arise.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1048x.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do think it is interesting that we can forward the questions in writing, but I would like to get the answer here so that we can have a debate. I think it would be useful for the speakers to get the questions in advance so that they can prepare themselves and that we still have time to go through the documents properly. After all, we have received a great deal of information today, and I think that a lot of questions will arise when we go through it. I think it is a good thing that we can go through all that during the holidays, forward the questions and then discuss them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1048x.u33	Do you think it would be a good idea to collect the questions by the Monday after the crocus holiday or is that relatively late?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1048x.u34	Mr President, on Monday after the Carnival leave, we have, subject to the reservation, the hearing of the jurists.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1048x.u35	The idea is to gather the questions in writing from the secretariat by Monday after the krokus holiday and to still find a date for a session on which we get the answers orally, so that there is a possibility of reply. If not, we will get answers without further ado, while Members may wish to replicate if the answer is satisfactory or not. In particular, I note the request for a new session, which should not be scheduled on Monday afternoon 11 March, the date reserved for, among other things, legal advice in response to the opinion of the Council of State. After the crocus holiday we will be looking with the minister for a moment to organize the session; I would like to collect the questions by Monday 11 March, so that the speakers can prepare themselves for it. This also gives MEPs the opportunity to continue studying the considerable amount of information that has been provided here. If we can agree in that way, we will communicate what date is chosen based on the availability of everyone. [[Assent]] So it is decided. Thank you for your long-standing efforts and attention.
