ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u1	The meeting was opened. The meeting is open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u2	Article 1bis of the Act of 6 August 1931 establishing incompatibilities and prohibitions concerning ministers, former ministers and ministers of State, as well as members and former members of the Legislative Chambers provides that the member of the House of Representatives who ceases to sit as a result of his appointment as Minister or Secretary of State of the Federal Government or as a result of his election as Minister or Secretary of State of a regional or community government shall be replaced by the first alternate in good order of the list on which he was elected. Article 1a of the Law of 6 August 1931 determining the incompetences and disqualifications concerning ministers, former ministers and ministers of State, as well as the members and former members of the Legislative Chambers provides that e and member of the Chamber of Representatives who ceases to sit as a result of his appointment as Minister or State Secretary of the Federal Government or his election as Minister or State Secretary of a Regional or Community Government shall be replaced by the first eligible successor to the list on which he was elected. We must therefore take the admission and swearing-in of these alternates. We must therefore proceed with the admission and swearing-in of those successors. These are the following alternates: - Mr. Khalil Aouasti, first substitute of the PS list for the electoral district of Brussels-Capital, replacing Ms. Caroline Désir; - Mr. Hervé Rigot, first substitute of the PS list for the electoral district of Liège, replacing Mr. Frédéric Daerden; - Mr. Philippe Tison, first substitute of the PS list for the electoral district of Hainaut, replacing Mr. Elio Di Rupo. These are: - Mr Khalil Aouasti, first successor to the PS list of the Brussels-Capital constituency, in place of Mrs Caroline Désir; - Mr Hervé Rigot, first successor to the list of PS in Liège, in place of Mr Frédéric Daerden; - Mr Philippe Tison, first successor to the PS list of the Hainaut constituency, in place of Mr Elio Di Rupo. The credentials of these alternates were validated in our meeting on June 20, 2019. The credentials of these successors were declared valid at our meeting of 20 June 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u3	I therefore propose that you proceed to the admission of these alternates to sit as a member of the House of Representatives in place of the members elected as members of the Walloon Government and of the Government of the French Community. I therefore propose that these successors be admitted as members of the Chamber of Representatives in place of members of the Walloon Government and the French Community Government. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. I would remind you that the members elected by the electoral colleges in the French-speaking region are part of the French linguistic group. I would remind you that Members elected by the electoral colleges belonging to the French language area belong to the French language group. I would point out that the Members elected by the electoral college of the arrondissement of Brussels are members of either the French linguistic group or the Dutch linguistic group of the Chamber, depending on whether they take an oath in French or Dutch. If the oath is taken in several languages, the one used in the first place is decisive. I would remind you that the elected representatives of the people of the Brussels district are part of the Dutch or French language group of the Chamber, depending on whether they take the oath in Dutch or in French. If the oath is taken in several languages, the language in which it was first taken is decisive. Je rappelle les termes du serment: "Je jure d'observer la Constitution" "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." I recall the words of the oath: "I swear to comply with the Constitution" "Your judge d'observer la Constitution" "Ich schwöre die Verfassung zu befolgen." I ask Mr. Khalil Aouasti to take the constitutional oath. I would ask Mr Khalil Aouasti to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u4	Mr. Khalil Aouasti will be a member of the French language group. Mr Khalil Aouasti will be part of the French language group. I ask Mr Hervé Rigot to take the constitutional oath. I would ask Mr Hervé Rigot to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u5	Mr. Hervé Rigot will be a member of the French linguistic group. Mr Hervé Rigot will be part of the French language group. I ask Mr Philippe Tison to take the constitutional oath. I would ask Mr Philippe Tison to take the constitutional oath.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u6	Mr. Philippe Tison will be a member of the French linguistic group. Mr Philippe Tison will be part of the French language group.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u7	You have received a draft agenda for today's meeting. You have received a draft agenda for today's sitting. Is there any comment on this? Are there any comments on this? Accordingly, the agenda was adopted. The agenda has therefore been adopted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u8	By letter dated 12 July 2019, the King's Chief of Staff conveyed to me the wishes of His Majesty the King for the success of the work of our Assembly. By letter of 12 July 2019, the Head of Cabinet of the King sent me the wishes of His Majesty the King for the success of our Assembly's work.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u9	By messages of 18 July and 16 September 2019, the Parliament of the Brussels-Capital Region announces that it was constituted at its meeting today. By letters dated 18 July and 16 September 2019, the Brussels-Capital Parliament informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u10	By message of July 18, 2019, the Raad van de Vlaamse Gemeenschapscommissie announces that it was constituted in its session today. By letter dated 18 July 2019, the Council of the Flemish Community Commission informed us that it had been declared legal and complete at that day's meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u11	By messages of 18 July and 17 September 2019, the Assembly meeting of the Joint Community Commission announced that it had constituted itself at its meeting today. By letters of 18 July and 17 September 2019, the United Assembly of the Joint Community Committee shall inform us that it has been declared lawful and complete at that date.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u12	By message of 18 July, the Assembly of the French Community Commission announced that it had formed itself at its meeting today. By letter of 18 July 2019, the Assembly of the French Community Commission We are aware that it was declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u13	By message of July 18, 2019, the Senate announced that it had been constituted at its sitting today. By letter dated 18 July 2019, the Senate informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u14	By message of 5 September 2019, the Parliament of the French Community announces that it was constituted at today's sitting. By letter of 5 September 2019, the Parliament of the French Community informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at the meeting of that day.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u15	By message of 4 September 2019 the Walloon Parliament made known that it was constituted at its sitting today. By letter dated 4 September 2019, the Walloon Parliament informed us that it had been declared lawful and complete at that day's meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u16	The President [[in front of the assembly standing]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u17	[[for the standing meeting]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Serge Moureaux, honorary member of the House, died in Haltinne on April 25, at the age of 85. After graduating from the Université Libre de Bruxelles as a doctor of law and a diploma in notarial law, Serge Moureaux quickly earned a reputation as a lawyer who was both extremely talented and particularly committed to the Brussels Bar Association. In particular, he leads the Belgian group of lawyers who defend the Algerian National Liberation Front. In the 1980s, he was the lawyer of the civil parties in the trials against the Vlaamse Militanten Orde, against the Youth Front, as well as in the trial concerning the arson of the premises of the left weekly Pour and that of the drama of the Heysel. As a descendant of a political nest, Serge Moureaux was the son of liberal minister Charles Moureaux and brother of minister of state Philippe Moureaux, with equal surrender to his political mandates, until 1985 for the FDF, then for the PS. As ships of Etterbeek and of the Brussels Agglomeration, in charge of spatial planning, he played a decisive role in the fight against the "Brusselsisation" from 1971 to 1989 and initiated a full reconstruction of our capital. Serge Moureaux continued his efforts for Brussels from 1989 to 1995 as a member of the Brussels-Capital Parliament and as President of the Council of the French Community Commission. He is also very present on the national political scene, in the Senate and in the House. During his four years of activity in this House, he is an active member of several parliamentary committees of inquiry, including the Dutroux Commission and the Committee on Sects, which he chairs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, with the death of Serge Moureaux, we lose a passionate man, who has marked political life both by his enormous strength of work, but also by his commitment and determination. Not to mention the intellectual whose brilliant erudition has made a man of dialogue. Convinced that it is possible to coexist in perfect harmony, Serge Moureaux had begun for several decades the consultation with the Brussels people of allochtonic origin. We extend our deepest condolences to his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Serge Moureaux, born in Etterbeek in 1934, died in Haltinne at the age of 85. Henriette, his wife, joined him two months later. He is also the brother of Minister of State Philippe Moureaux himself disappeared last December. Serge Moureaux has distinguished himself both in his work as a lawyer and in his many political responsibilities throughout his career. He obtained a degree in law at the Université libre de Bruxelles. He started working at the Brussels counter in 1956. From 1958 to 1962, when he was still a young lawyer, he became the head of the Belgian lawyer collective of the Algerian Front de libération nationale. He has participated in numerous trials that have been widely publicized. For example, he served as counsel for the civil party in the trial against the VMO for the Youth Front but also against the criminal incendiary of the weekly POUR and as a civil party for the State of Rwanda in the Ntuyahaga case. At the same time, he was extremely involved in politics. Before joining the Socialist Party in 1985, he was first involved in the FDF. Between 1971 and 1989, he was alderman in Etterbeek and the first French-speaking bishop of the Brussels Agglomeration, a sort of prelude to the Brussels-Capital Region. In charge of Urbanism and Spatial Planning, he played a very decisive role in the policy of spatial planning and urban renewal and fought against Brusselsisation. He then became a member of the Council of the Brussels-Capital Region and chairman of the COCOF. He was also very active at the federal level. He was a member of the Senate until 1995 and a member of the Chamber of Representatives from 1995 to 1999. In this context, he took part in various parliamentary committees of inquiry, including the Dutroux Committee, and was also chairman of the parliamentary committee on sects. His life was marked by numerous struggles for the freedom of peoples and the defence of just causes. A man of culture, he also presided over the ULB editions, the CIFAS, the Brussels video centre, the judicial college and the house of francité. On behalf of the government, Mr.President, I join in the tribute and wish all his loved ones a great deal of courage, to whom we also offer our deepest condolences.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u19	May I invite the Chamber to observe a few moments of silence.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u20	The President [[in front of the assembly standing]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u21	[[for the standing meeting]] Colleagues, We learned with regret the death of our former colleague, Jean-Pierre Grafé, on May 16, 2019, at the age of 87. After studying law at the University of Liège, this son of a lawyer, deeply attached to the Ardent City, actively campaigned in various student associations. In 1953 he became president of Christian social students. In 1954, Jean-Pierre Grafé began a career as a lawyer at the Liège Court of Appeal. Shortly thereafter, the Minister of State, Pierre Harmel, who had discovered his talents among his students at the University of Liège, encouraged him to embark on a political arena. He thus joined the team of the various firms that surrounded Pierre Harmel when he was in business from 1958 to 1961. Our former colleague joined the House of Representatives on 7 November 1971 for the Social-Christian Party. In 1973, he was appointed Minister of Walloon Affairs in the Leburton governments. In the following government led by Leo Tindemans, he was entrusted, in April 1974, with the portfolio of French Culture. He then held various positions in the Cultural Council of the French Community until he held the Presidency of the Council of the French Community from 1985 to 1988. In February 1988 he joined the Community Executive as Minister for Tourism and International Relations. Our former colleague would hold other ministerial posts in the Walloon Government and in the French Community from 1992 to 1996. On 21 May 1995, Jean-Pierre Grafé chose to stand for election at the regional level. He was one of the first 75 directly elected representatives in the Walloon Parliament. From 1999 to 2003, he returned to the House and then ended his parliamentary career. Indefatigable, orderly, methodical worker, Jean-Pierre Grafé has always managed his files with seriousness and skill. He has always shown enormous availability to a loyal and numerous electorate. All its political partners agree on the fact that this skilled, obstinate and tough negotiator has always made a point of honour to respect the agreements reached and to ensure that they are carried out properly. I conveyed to his family the condolences of our assembly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Jean-Pierre Grafé, born in Liège on 31 March 1932, left us on 16 May 2019 at the age of 87. A Doctor of Law at the University of Liège, he then joined the bar of Liège. He was one of the first lawyers to have made copyright his specialty. He was in particular the lawyer of many Belgian singers and great friend of Jacques Brel. He said of himself that for as long as he could remember, he has always felt a great sense of responsibility. He was president of Christian Democrat students at the Université de Liège and then also at national level. In 1958 he became a Cabinet Attaché to Pierre Harmel, Minister of Justice, Cultural Affairs and the Public Service. In the same year, he was elected to the municipal council of Liège. Jean-Pierre Grafé was elected Member of Parliament for Liège in November 1971 and was appointed Minister of Walloon Affairs in the Leburton I and Leburton II governments, then Minister of French Culture in the Tindemans I and Tindemans II governments. Between 1988 and 1992, he served as Minister of Education and Training, Sport, Tourism and International Relations within the French Community. He was Minister of Public Works in the Walloon government. He has also served as Regional Minister for Research, Technological Development and International Relations. At the same time, he received responsibility for higher education in the French Community. He then returned to Parliament between 1999 and 2003. Jean-Pierre Grafé is an ardent defender of his city. This "dinosaur", as he called himself, leaves behind him fifty years of passion and political commitment. On behalf of the government, we wish to pay tribute to Jean-Pierre Grafé and convey our sincere condolences to his loved ones.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u23	I invite the Chamber once again to observe a number of moments of restraint.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u24	The President [[in front of the assembly standing]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u25	[[for the standing meeting]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Armand De Decker, Minister of State and former Member of Parliament, died on June 12 in Woluwe-Saint-Lambert, at the age of 70. After obtaining a Bachelor of Laws degree at the Université Libre de Bruxelles, Armand De Decker became a lawyer at the Brussels Bar and also entered politics. From 1979 to 1981, he was secretary general of the PRL at the time, chaired by Jean Gol. He was an adviser to the office of the Minister of Defence Charles Poswick before being elected a Member of Parliament for the Brussels borough in November 1981. It is the beginning of a career of several decades as a political agent. Armand De Decker was a member of the House of Commons for 14 years before moving to the Senate in 1995, a assembly that he personified and twice presided over. This convinced European is also a very active member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and the Assembly of the Western European Union, of which he is President for three years. Meanwhile Armand De Decker also focused on the local and regional level. From 1989 to 1995 he was a vessel of Culture, and from 2006 to 2017 mayor of his precious municipality of Uccle. He was President of the Brussels-Capital Parliament from 1995 to 1999. In the same Brussels Parliament, after leaving the Senate in April 2014, he would end his political career. Colleagues, with the disappearance of Armand De Decker, we lose not only a leading politician but also an affable personality, always in search of compromise and conciliation. After having served as Minister for Development Cooperation of the Verhofstadt government, he was entrusted in November 2007 by King Albert II, the task of taking with Herman Van Rompuy an initiative to initiate a lasting dialogue with a view to strengthening cohesion between the Communities. In 2008, he was part of the group of political leaders to negotiate a new institutional reform. Because he has always been convinced of the power of dialogue, Armand De Decker has supported each of these projects with all his energy. We offer our sincere condolences to his wife Jacqueline and his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Armand De Decker is undeniably a figure who has marked the Belgian political debate in recent decades. Born of a teaching mother and a painter's father, a well-known portraitist – one of his famous models was King Baudouin – he began law studies at the ULB before becoming a lawyer. In the early 1980s he entered politics and became Deputy Secretary-General of the PRL and Federal Member of Parliament. During the same period he also began to sit in the Council of the French Community, where he remained until 2003. He was very attached to Brussels and was President of the Council of the Brussels-Capital Region from 1995 to 1999. Later he returned to that assembly as Vice-President. He also became Speaker of the Senate, to which his name remains particularly attached. He also served in this position from 2007 to 2010, after having served between 1999 and 2004. For more than twenty years he sat in the High Assembly. He served as Minister of Development Cooperation for three years. His qualities as a diplomat and mediator led him in particular to assume the role of royal conciliator in 2007 alongside Herman Van Rompuy. He was appointed Minister of State in 2009. A strong supporter of the European project since the beginning of his career, particularly interested in defence issues, he was also President of the Assembly of the Western European Union, a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe and a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Finally, on the municipal level, he dedicated himself to his commune, Uccle. He began his term as a communal councillor in 1989 and became his mayor between 2006 and 2017. Armand De Decker drew his mark on the various assemblies in which he distinguished himself. His elegance, his tolerance, his courtesy and his sense of compromise are retained from him. His love for Europe, Belgium, Brussels, Uccle, has continued to enliven him for forty years of political commitment. On behalf of the government, I join you, Mr. President, in paying tribute to Armand De Decker and expressing our deepest condolences to his wife Jacqueline, his brother Jacques and all his relatives.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u27	May I invite the Chamber to observe a few moments of silence in the memory of Armand De Decker.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin this first Question Time, I would like to remind you of a number of rules. We agreed yesterday at the Conference of Presidents. Even though the government is in current affairs and does not have a majority in the Chamber, I believe that dealing with current affairs should be the subject of a parliamentary inquiry, but within that context. I would like to pass this on to the members of the Chamber who are asking questions to the government. I will also act if this principle is not respected. I would also like to make it quite clear to the members of the government that I do not think they are obliged to answer questions which go beyond this framework. It is about the notion of current cases, a concept that is sufficiently clearly defined. Are there any questions, comments? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a question about the budget is not just a technical question. The budget is the expression of the way in which we want to organise our society. Prime Minister, I have read that the budget situation, a deficit of EUR 13 billion, makes you angry. Angry, but for what? To the shortage that you yourself have caused? Or furious with who? On yourself, as a coordinating minister, or on former colleague Van Overtveldt, who had some uncovered cheques issued? Prime Minister, it is to your credit that you are politically intellectually honest and say that the budget deficit is a problem. However, anyone who has every reason to be angry is the citizen. I'll give you two inheritances from the Swedish coalition. Firstly, a budget deficit of EUR 13 billion that is predicted before the end of the legislature. That figure is worse than the one you started, EUR 10.8 billion. The well's only gotten bigger. Secondly, much worse for the citizen and an absolute reason for the citizen to be angry are the figures, not mine, but the Federal Planning Office, on the economic budget, on the tax burden on families and companies, large companies and multinationals. In the coming years, our families will pay as much as EUR 13.4 billion more tax. On the other hand, companies will pay EUR 1 billion less in the coming years. Speaking of fiscal justice! That is not the tax justice that citizens are asking for. I'm rounding up. In view of the budget deficit, we must also take protective measures in current cases. The sp.a has been the first to dare to propose a protective measure, a measure which does not harm anyone and which aims to suspend the second phase of the reduction in corporation tax for large companies and multinationals, which will enter into force next year, in order not to deepen the budget deficit and not to impose further burdens on families in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u30	Mr Bertels, you are, of course, making a suggestion for the future. We are clearly talking about the concept of current affairs and the way in which ministers practice it today within the government. What you are proposing in relation to corporate taxation is an option for the future. So you cannot expect the Prime Minister to be able or allowed to give a ruling on this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u31	Mr President, I can only express my opinion on the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u32	Mr President, in the context of current affairs, it seems to me to be an appropriate protective measure not to derail the budget further.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u33	You may propose that in Parliament, and if you find a majority in committee, it will be another matter. However, you are now questioning the government about this and the dividing line is clear. Parliament has full power of control over your supervisory powers, but you cannot question the government about suggestions for the future, because then we go beyond that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u34	Prime Minister, for five years, you have justified – in the name of the budgetary balance that was to be achieved – cutting public spending, railway spending, salaries, and all social policies. The Liberals, the right-wing parties, said this was to strike the balance. They were going to cut the budget in full, and that would balance the budget. They sold us that for five years! For five years! What is the result after five years of liberal politics? A 13 billion hole expected in 2024! It is the complete failure of your liberal ideology, according to which cutting out of spending will solve budgetary problems. It is a shame, dear liberals, dear right-wing parties, that there is such a big hole five years later. Just then, the Prime Minister said the following sentence: "I am furious." The Prime Minister, in lucidity, says: "I'm angry!" We then think that he is angry with the parties of his majority, that he is angry with his own policy. We think he woke up, the Prime Minister! No, ladies and gentlemen! No. Listen to this: he is angry at the opposition parties that did not vote his last budget! Prime Minister, I am not going to ask you any questions about the future. It's not allowed. So let's talk about the past! That's the subject of my question. Since the Monitoring Committee is very clear on the fact that the €7 billion deficit comes from the tax shift, a measure that has been voted on in the past, Prime Minister, do you take responsibility for such a hole in the budget? Can you acknowledge in front of the Nation that you have completely screwed up in your economic policy?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u35	Mr President, we note that it is not obvious to determine the perimeter of the current cases, but I will try to share a few answers with you. Over the last four years, with a lot of debate in Parliament, the government has worked hard to implement structural reforms. We ensured a tax shift, which I am convinced was necessary, is and will continue to implement a tax reform. We reformed the labour market with a view to greater flexibility and to giving more opportunities to companies to create more jobs. Finally, in any budgetary exercise and control, we have also made an effort to improve our finances in order to improve the situation. What are the results four years later? More than 250,000 jobs were created. Over the past four years, more than 100,000 businesses have been established. Our investments have gone up again. I want to be clear and precise about this: in December 2018, when the government fell, the budgetary result was such that the deficit was divided by three structurally. At this rostrum, when a party left the government coalition, I took my responsibilities by calling for a budget. In the absence of a budget, we do not have the levers to undertake the reforms necessary for further consolidation. I saw on all benches – apart from those of the parties that had remained in the government – a refusal of the hand that had been stretched out to prevent us from ending up for a year in provisional twelfths and without structural reforms and to ensure that we remained able, day after day and week after week, to keep the country on track and keep the accounts on track. Therefore, I persist and I sign: everyone has to take responsibility; it was Parliament that did not allow us to have a budget in 2019. What do I have to see a few months after the May elections? I will of course refrain from talking about the future, but I see that at this very moment a process of training has not even begun. I'm sorry. The responsibility of the various political benches must be guided by urgency. I note that the "glossy" proposal intended to create jobs is to go back on tax reforms aimed at encouraging entrepreneurship, investment and employment. Everyone will appreciate it... Thanks to the tax shift – and I'm proud of it! – low and average wages receive 160 euros more each month. It's more purchasing power, it's more jobs, it's a country that's stronger! It is now up to Parliament and, I hope, to a government tomorrow to pursue this ambition for this country and its citizens.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u36	Prime Minister, I want to replicate two things. Firstly, a budget is not a technical document which is simply presented to the opposition and asks her to approve it. There are social choices in that. Your draft budget for 2019 contains social choices that we absolutely cannot share. I've listed some of them. You charge the families and you indemnify the companies. That is not just taxation. We're not going along with that. Secondly, in the context of protective measures, if we cannot call them on-going matters, it is our damned duty not to let the budget sink get deeper. We can't keep handing out fiscal gifts. I call on you to look to the Netherlands, for some colleagues a guide country. In the Netherlands, Prime Minister Rutte, a liberal, proposed to do less for multinationals and more for families. That is also what we want.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u37	Mr President, a very brief reply. Of course! Prime Minister, I will tell you that I find this really disgusting. Indeed, the bankruptcy of your policy is clear and spread before your eyes. You see the social misery that you have created, the lack of response to people's suffering and, in addition, an increasingly deep budget gap. It's easy for you! You're firing! You go to the Council of Europe and you will put 25 000 euros a month in your pocket. It's easy! I see other Liberal ministers, who have been ardent advocates of this tax shift, going to the Commission. We continue to live with this reality that people live in. They're tired of your liberal politics. We can't talk about the future, but the Prime Minister talked about it anyway. I heard a little signal. I hope that during these famous negotiations, the real concerns of the people will be discussed, such as the minimum pension of 1,500 euros net, and a tax of the millionaires that would prevent us from coming to pick up the money again in our pockets.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u38	I repeat that all the groups may submit their proposals here in Parliament, but they must not confront the government, because the government cannot and cannot respond to them. That would not be intellectually and politically correct.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u39	Mr Minister, I would like to talk about the study of the KU Leuven that was published today. The study focused on the various deradicalisation projects and various initiatives taken in this country. According to this study, the fight against radicalisation would somewhat miss its goal. The researchers point out that the landscape is very fragmented. There are important powers at federal and Flemish level, but local authorities also have an important role to play. They then list 107 subsidised projects, which is a lot. However, that is not the end of the matter. They also point to the position of youth workers and the people on the ground who are under pressure because of the stigmatisation of the entire Muslim community. For this there is a Flemish but also a federal action plan. It is therefore argued that policy should be made more coherent and transparent. I have three questions for you, Minister. First of all, what budget is going to go federally? Has an evaluation been made of the effectiveness of the use of these resources? How can we possibly improve it? Secondly, as far as the various consultation structures are concerned, is there really a consultation structure in relation to this issue between the different levels in this country? Does that consultation structure work? Thirdly, how do you think we can combat the fact that all Muslims in this country are often regarded as a security problem? Perhaps in the margins of this question you can also comment on the effectiveness of the various deradicalisation projects running in Belgian prisons.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u40	Mr President, is this on-going?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u41	Mr Crombez, there is no question of the intentions of what a next government could do. People are simply asking for explanations on matters that are currently in the press. This can also be explained. By the way, the Minister is...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u42	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u43	This is about what the Minister can do now, within his powers and within the framework of current affairs.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u44	Mrs Gabriels, this question is, of course, as you yourself have said, a question that is put to many ministers at the same time. If I have read the newspapers correctly this morning, it was mainly about prevention. Without wishing to minimize my competence, on the contrary, prevention is really not the area for which justice is responsible. At the federal level, the problem is mainly a matter for the Department of Home Affairs. There a mobile team has been set up to go to local authorities on request to act at the appropriate levels, where they are asked to do so, on prevention. You understand, however, that prevention is primarily a matter for the Communities. I think, for example, that education, the level at which you used to work, is an important part of the preventive approach. If we are talking about prevention in justice, we are talking about prevention of radicalisation in prisons, because we are generally considered responsible for spreading the radicalisation scourge in prison, including in relation to people who have not actually been radicalised into prison. That story has been going on since 2015. An updated plan "radicalisation in prisons" will soon be launched, but the first has already been submitted and was put into effect in March 2015, after Verviers and before Paris. At that time we began to prepare the two wings in Ittre and Hasselt, where people are housed who over radicalise others. The deradicalisation officials who do the work there are from the Communities. That work is not done by the federal prison system. It is the people of the Communities who take up the exercise, but they do so as far as I can judge it in a very commendable way. At federal and Community level, we have an Inter-Ministerial Conference for the Houses of Justice, which has come together about 12 times in the past legislature and has done a very commendable job in this area and has tried to present the jargon and the action plan together. I was not expecting a budgetary question, and I will therefore not answer it, entirely in line with what Mr Crombez has just suggested: a budget is not my metier. However, with regard to the extra muros measures, i.e. the succession once the prisoners have left the house, the Community is competent, of course, from the local task forces that are being used. Despite the fact that I am suggesting a great fragmentation, which was also a bit of a reproach in De Morgen this morning, which made the question so urgent, I do think we have been an example in this respect for the Kingdom, if I may put it that way. The four ministers have tried together to do excellent work. That can be viewed on our websites and in the reports, which I recommend to you, but I am always willing to provide additional documentation. Finally, you asked how we can counter the idea that every Muslim has been radicalised and how we can avoid stigmatisation. I have my idea about that, namely by acting normal to us, which I try to do as much as I can.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u45	Mr Crombez, I was simply asking about existing policies, about ongoing projects, so that certainly falls within the scope of current cases. Minister, despite the fact that the powers are somewhat fragmented, I have nevertheless received an answer on the various consultative structures. We have an important role to play here in the federal sphere. Both within the police forces, of course, you referred to the Home Office and within the judiciary, the fight against radicalisation remains a top priority, undoubtedly also in the next legislature. We would therefore like to call for the recommendations of the parliamentary committee of inquiry on the attacks chaired by Dewael to be followed and taken to heart in the previous legislature so that more results can be achieved and people in the field may feel better supported.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u46	That is undoubtedly an ongoing matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u47	Long-term business! Mr President, Minister, we are all familiar with the ARCO dossier: 800,000 people were lied and deceived, but most of all lost their savings. It's an absolute disgrace and misery. Apparently their misery isn't big enough because today we read in the media that the ARCO summit wants to see some extra money. It is not enough that they have taken away the savings, no, there must also be a penalty. In the beginning, there was EUR 2.6 million. A little later in the day it was about 4 million, 6 million to even 11 million euros. I believe that we are already at EUR 14 million, which should be coughed up by the victims. The warm center is sometimes said. I sometimes get the impression that the warm center wants to be warmer in itself. At the same time, we have seen something special this weekend and that makes it an ongoing matter. This weekend we saw an interview in the Seventh Day, where your colleague, Minister Koen Geens, received a number of questions about ARCO. His answer was that the time has come to move forward. In his view, additional measures should be taken. He also said that consultations had taken place. When he received additional questions about this, he pointed out that he could not or could not say anything about it. Precisely because we are in a period of ongoing business, I am concerned about this! Minister Koen Geens has been Minister of Finance. He's a lawyer, too. He should therefore know that there is really no solution in this dossier. Legally, this cannot be done for the sake of Europe. This has been repeatedly demonstrated here by former MEP Peter Dedecker. This brings me to my questions. We are in a period of ongoing business. If I hear a minister explaining that there has been consultation and that it is time to come up with solutions, and that all this could also raise the budget with EUR 600 million, then I would like to hear confirmation from the Minister of Finance that the government is not competent in this matter and that it does not have any plans now or in the future to take steps in this direction.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u48	Mr Loones, you basically made a statement and then asked a short question. Like you, I have read in the newspapers that Mrs Swiggers will sue the litigants. The State is not a party to this, so as Minister of Finance I have no position to take on this matter. The final fact is the ruling of the European Court of 7 December 2018. No initiative was taken by the government in current cases. A government in current cases should confine itself to decisions that concern the vital functioning of the government. This government in current cases will therefore not take any further action on this dossier.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u49	That's a clear answer. We will, of course, continue to follow up on this, because indeed, the government is in current affairs. Those who are not in ongoing business are movement.net and ARCO, the people who are going to walk with the money. They could perform. What they could do is to give back those pennies instead of demanding immoral damages. I believe that we can expect civil society to take the path of justice rather than legal harassment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u50	Minister, on the occasion of the state visit of Congolese President Felix Tshisekedi, Belgium takes the opportunity to re-establish close ties with the new Congolese political authorities. I would like to stress that the relations between the Belgian people and the Congolese people, particularly through the Congolese diaspora in Brussels, have always been strong and warm. President Tshisekedi's visit is an opportunity to present to him a series of measures in the political field, in the field of development cooperation, in the field of defence, measures which Belgium wants to place at the centre of our bilateral relationship. The MR shall be attentive to the internal consistency of all these measures. Mr Minister, Belgium has, for 20 years, always worked to ensure coherence of Western aid to the Congo, whether it comes from the European Union or the United Nations. What initiatives will you take to bring together the western aid that the Congo needs? Even if we measure the need to assist in the reconstruction of Congolese institutions, especially the administrations, we have always paid attention to the fact that our aid benefits the well-being of the Congolese population, whether in terms of health – particularly the fight against Ebola – or in terms of agricultural aid. What concrete measures can the Belgian Government initiate at short notice? The Democratic Republic of the Congo must return to peaceful relations with all its neighbours, despite the weight of the past. How can we contribute to the calming of regional tensions and the neutralization of the last armed groups, without ignoring the question of impunity and suffering suffered by the civilian population? Finally, Belgian entrepreneurs and members of the Congolese diaspora have expressed their enthusiasm for reviving economic activity in the DRC. How can we contribute to the legal and financial certainty of economic recovery in the country?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u51	Minister, the Congolese President began an official visit to our country this Monday. This first visit by President Félix Tshisekedi to Belgium is a strong symbol. Indeed, our two countries have experienced increasingly tense relations with Joseph Kabila's regime in recent years. Consulates have been closed, partnerships have been closed. While more than 100,000 Congolese live in Belgium today, we believe that our country has a duty to renew strong ties with the Congo. Over the past decade, the Congo has suffered several million deaths, not to mention violence against women, and more than four million internally displaced persons. Today, therefore, we have a responsibility to strengthen our cooperation with the Democratic Republic of the Congo while ensuring – and I insist – that the country's sovereignty is respected. For it is up to us that we must look first, maintaining ethical investments, maintaining strong development cooperation in the DRC and ensuring that we fight against trafficking in raw materials. Our country is indeed a hub for gold, coltan and diamonds. Minister, what is the federal government's position on international sanctions against several Congolese personalities of the former regime? What agreements and letters of intent were signed this week during the various meetings with President Tshisekedi? Will Belgium reopen its consulates and intensify its development cooperation programmes?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u52	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, President Tshisekedi is visiting. After years of deteriorating relations with Congo, we are now trying to build another relationship. Many red runners were rolled out and President Tshisekedi made many visits. We hope for cooperation in the future. The N-VA considers it very important to build a healthy and mature relationship with other countries. However, questions remain about the democratic nature of the elections in Congo and about the power that the Kabila family still has. Therefore, Minister, I would like to hear how you evaluate the current situation in Congo. Do you see opportunities for improvement in the future? We know that there are still problems in the area of human rights in the Congo. Will that change in the future? Respect for human rights is also important at political level.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u53	Before giving the floor to the Minister for his reply, I would like to congratulate the last three speakers on their maiden speech. [[Applause]] Should I be strict, I should say to those speakers that no notes should be taken to the speaker's seat. After all, we speak to each other without written preparation. However, I have noticed that a good effort has been made. I therefore ask them to make as little use as possible of prepared texts as they have more or less done. Mr. Secretary, do you also have a prepared text?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, even a diplomatic response can be improvised, including with regard to our relations with Congo. I want to talk first about the last elections in Congo. As you know, after a lengthy process, controversial elections took place and the results were confirmed by the Constitutional Court. In the constitutional regime we know, this has made progress despite a political, social, humanitarian and security situation that remains fragile. The Congolese authorities still face many challenges. I should simply point out that the new President's voluntarism is rather creating a favourable environment. There is a tendency, not only in the region but also in the international community, to consider critically that this reform process, which the President announces, may need to be supported. We'll see how things go. The President has been in Belgium since Tuesday and will stay here until the end of the day for an official visit. Maybe he'll stay a few more hours for private reasons. So far, however, the visit has been very successful. Following official contact with the Prime Minister, there was a working meeting with several ministers. Then there was an audience with the King. Subsequently, the President of the DRC, King Filip and a number of government representatives took part in a lunch. Mr President, such a visit confirms the renewal of the relationship between Belgium and Congo. We want to intensify this relationship. Several agreements were signed. In fact, it is a matter of memoranda or understanding, so with a non-binding character but still with the intention, for both parties, to move on. We have embarked on a number of documents dealing with foreign affairs, finance and cooperation. As far as foreign affairs are concerned, the aim is to continue on the road to the reopening which was carried out on the initiative of the new President of the Schengen House. It has changed its name but is still under Belgian management. The reopening of two consulates is now announced: ours, the Consulate General in Lubumbashi, and the Consulate of the DRC in Antwerp. This is the commitment made in this document. There will also be an exchange of ambassadors. We have already sent an ambassador to Kinshasa; he must be accredited. Bilateral relations at the diplomatic level are therefore being advanced in this direction. Exchanges are also planned in the area of finance, but I will stress the development cooperation aspect raised in many issues. As you have said, Mr. President, we are indeed in day-to-day business. It is therefore a transitional programme that is announced. The next government will obviously have to be asked about the resumption of a genuine broader cooperation programme. In the meantime, requests come from the Congolese side and we are ready to work on them. These requests relate first to Ebola. Indeed, it is not only a question of eradicating the disease but also of seeking its causes and origins in order to prevent this scourge from returning to Congolese territory in the months and years to come. It is also possible to play a more active role in education. The will exists. However, the transition programme will obviously be relatively limited initially. It will at least make it possible to resume the process. On the issue of sanctions, the decision will take place at the multilateral level. We have had the chance to maintain a unanimous European position on all our relations with the DRC in recent years. I believe that we must continue in this direction. We'll probably be back in the next few months. Finally, I would say that the primary concern in a country like the Democratic Republic of the Congo is peace and security. A development approach cannot be revived if, especially in important regions – I am thinking of the East – this logic of peace and security cannot be developed. This is why we have also taken up language for military cooperation in several respects: training, operations which will take place next year with the presence of Belgian military officials and in particular of a Belgian ship in the region which will stop in the DRC, with probably training centres on the ground that will develop. We have formed battalions in the past but also many paracommandos. It is possible to take this step again. This component is under development as the police component. There is not yet any concrete direction, but there is a desire of the Minister of the Interior to resume a logic of cooperation in the police field. As I have already said, much of the opposition also wants to give a chance to a different governance program. If governance changes in the Congo, it can only be for the benefit of the Congolese population. It's been repeated enough in the last few years. It is probably one of the resource-rich countries, with one of the poorest populations. If governance improves, it can only lead to a more favourable situation for the Congolese people themselves.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u55	Mr President, Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. The day before yesterday in Brussels, we all heard these words from President Félix Tshisekedi. He said: "Belgium is a gateway to cooperation with the European Union." He enthusiastically added: "Belgium is my other Congo." Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Congolese also listen to us, hear us and look at us. Indeed, the Congo is the second most important country of many of our compatriots. On foreign affairs, development cooperation and defence, in the last twenty years, under the impetus of the liberal family, our country has made a positive turn in its relations with that country. May this momentum continue for the benefit of the Congolese people! In Congo, in Lingala, Mr. President, if I may, they say: "Bondékopé bosangani ya Belgik nà Congo éwoumèla". In Swahili it is said: "Inchi ya Belgik na Congo zèindelè urafiki zaidi tewa kesho na siki zoté". It means, dear friends, "that friendship and fraternity always endure".
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u56	Minister, I will keep one aspect of your speech. If we are indeed to strengthen our ties with the Democratic Republic of the Congo, we have a responsibility not to forget the millions of Congolese who have come down the street in recent months to defend their Constitution and their rights. That is why, in my view, we must take a path that is opposite to that of President Trump, who has opted for a reduction in spending on development cooperation and UN peace missions. On the contrary, we must do everything possible to strengthen peace in the Congo.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u57	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It remains important to continue to monitor the human rights situation and to continue to address abuses whenever necessary. Political imprisonment is, in itself, something we must avoid. I'd be grateful to you for bringing this up all the time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u58	I have indicated in advance that the questions can be asked and that you can answer within the context of your powers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u59	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, should solidarity not be a crime in this democratic forum? It's not an offence. It is a value, a virtue, something that you have been reminded of when you were forced, by a large majority, to abandon this bill, which is as despicable as it is useless, to allow home visits, criminalizing precisely the natural solidarity of hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens who have manifested themselves either directly or through social networks to bring a little humanity into the delicate dossier of migrants and refugee candidates. What are we learning today? It is learned that your administration serves as a secretariat to the Bossuyt Commission responsible for reviewing legislation and also monitoring the problem of return. Is it also worth recalling that this Commission was set up after the scandal of people being sent back to Sudan? It is reported that your administration is assisting this Commission in considering a bill that has been buried. Minister, how is it that an officer of the Office of Foreigners thought that he was authorized to assist in reviving this ignoble but also vicious bill aimed at human dignity? Minister, we need an explanation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u60	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I was bouncing on this strange invitation received by the Association of Investigative Judges and sent by the Bossuyt Commission. It is strange to say that this bill on home visits has never reached Parliament, thanks to the mobilization of civil society and, I must say, a few members of the outgoing majority. Of course, the Bossuyt Commission is continuing its work and submitted an interim report last February. The problem is that its mission is to assess the current policy of expulsion and arrest of foreigners and not, of course, to work on bills or bills that have aborted under the former majority thanks to a late – but valuable – awareness of part of the majority of the time. Of course, Madam Minister, you will tell us that you have not asked for anything and that the Bossuyt Commission is independent. It should be remembered, however, that it, apart from Mr Bossuyt himself, is composed exclusively of members of institutions which are placed under the dome of the Internal FPS, namely the Office of Foreigners, the CGRA, Fedasil, as well as the police services. This composition had been criticized in its time, notably by Amnesty International, because it left no room for civil society – including the one that protects fundamental rights. That is the problem: this Commission, in this composition, has spontaneously extended its scope of inquiry to bills that had hit society so badly that they could not cross the course of Parliament. Therefore, Madam Minister, my question will be quite simple: can you tell us what mandate this Bossuyt Commission has today? More specifically, has this mandate been extended by chance to unsuccessful bills and bills? If so, under what authority? In the light of these events, could you not consider extending their membership to civil society, which protects fundamental rights?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u61	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this week we are hearing that the Association of Investigative Judges has received a request for a hearing on the bill allowing home visits. As a reminder, this is a scandalous bill to allow a search into the private home of a person harbouring migrants, thus remedying the government's lack of solidarity in terms of reception. At the time, this bill had aroused a great deal of negative reactions and concern on the part of indignant citizens, from 120 local authorities, from all political backgrounds, from some democrats, including the Ecolo-Groen Group of course, but also from the judiciary, which had already strongly recalled its opposition to this liberticide project. And for good reason: this project aims to criminalize solidarity. It remains for us, ecologists, unacceptable. Home visits indeed call into question the basic principles of our democracy: the principle of solidarity, the inviolability of the home and the independence of the investigating judges, and I move on. The project had therefore been abandoned. Yet it reappears in a rather strange way. Madam Minister, we were first told about a source from your office. Secondly, we are talking about the Office of Foreigners, and now we are talking about an invitation from the Bossuyt Commission, which, however, did not have this at all as an object. Minister, my first question is very simple: who took this initiative? Why? What are you going to do about it? My second question is just as direct: can you tell us once and for all that this project is abandoned and will remain so?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u62	Mr.President, Madam Minister, it took a little more than two months between 2017 and 2018 for Parliament to bury the house visit bill. This project is unworthy and is, of course, contrary to individual freedoms. For 48 hours, various information has come to us. We'd like to know exactly what happened. First of all, we're talking about the Foreign Office. Then you said you didn't take any initiative in this matter; in your opinion it was the Bossuyt Commission that took it. That is absolutely not the role of this Commission. Its function is to assess return policy. I cannot even think that there was, at one point, no political impetus in such a controversial issue. I'd like you to confirm or refute that statement. How could an administration that is aware of the controversy created by this issue, its difficulty, which knows that civil society and some of the majority have opposed this project, as well as the judiciary, have taken this initiative? How do you explain yourself on this file? Have you or have you not given political impetus for it to be reviewed? I'd like to know who's blowing on the embers of the fire that was sleeping, and who's ready to turn on again.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u63	Mr President, after all these rumours and false news in the press, I am delighted to see that you are four asking me the question: who did what? I must admit that it is with some astonishment that I have read the articles published on the subject. To those who ask me to come and answer in committee, I reply that I am prepared to do so at any time, particularly with regard to legislation and in order to explain what this is all about. It goes without saying that neither my firm nor I have taken any initiative on the Home Visits Act. I will respect until the end of my term of office everything that has been decided in this chamber. As you know, I have always respected Parliament's decisions. In the meantime, I have learned that this subject has resurfaced in the work of the Commission responsible for evaluating return policy, as Mrs Matz said. This Commission, chaired by Mr Bossuyt, was set up in March 2018 with the aim of evaluating this policy and the collaboration between the various actors involved. His term of office remains unchanged. As the minister in charge of a day-to-day government, it is not my responsibility to change this mandate. As soon as I took office, I gave the Commission the opportunity to carry out its tasks independently, and I want it to remain unchanged. You understand my astonishment yesterday. In the interim report submitted to me last February, it was mentioned that some NGOs were in favour of a new investigation into the issue of home arrest. It was the request of NGOs that really prompted the Commission to ask the investigating judges about the project and to ask them for an opinion on any objections raised by NGOs and possible solutions. That seems entirely legitimate to me. In particular, I believe that this request is fully within the Commission's mandate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u64	Minister, your answer is disappointing. We'd like to hear you say you're going to reframe the Foreign Office. It does not have to revive an abhorrent bill, which has been buried in this democratic forum. We would also have liked to have heard you take a definitive position, and tell us that you chose the side of respect for public freedoms, fundamental rights and human dignity. No, to hear you, it is the fault of non-governmental human rights organisations. What a disappointment, minister! We expected you to be a little high enough to recall what brings the democrats together. But no, you've aligned a series of fake leaks. Your answer is disappointing, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u65	Minister, I don't know if I'm disappointed yet, but I'm at least puzzled. Thank you for making the point in your answer. As I hear it, I do not know whether or not the Bossuyt Commission has exceeded the limits of its mandate. It must be understood that, on its own initiative, it is beginning to look at what happens to bills or bills that have not been successful. It examines some, some, but not others. Under the last legislature, a bill to prohibit the confinement of families with children in closed centres was discussed. I do not think that the Bossuyt Commission has seized it. There is therefore a discussion to be continued. I look forward to having this discussion with you and with the Chairman of the Bossuyt Commission, soon, in the Committee on the Interior.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u66	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer, which I confess leaves me puzzled. It is incredible to refer the ball back to the voluntary sector and NGOs, which, I repeat, remedy the government's lack of solidarity and non-compliance with its international obligations. I confess my incomprehension. I would ask you to remind this Commission of its objectives and possibly of its method of work. Very few field actors were involved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u67	Minister, I must admit that I am somewhat surprised to hear that it is the voluntary sector, which has so much fought against this project, that would be at the origin of a possible request for revision or reformulation of this home visit law. It is clear that the Bossuyt Commission has exceeded its powers. We have heard that this is an independent committee, but in my view it is only to a certain extent. Here, she's completely out of her mission. Next week we will have the opportunity to ask the President of this Commission about his exact role. We will be extremely attentive to his answers. We hope that you, as the minister responsible for day-to-day affairs, will respect the mandate that Parliament has given, namely that this matter be permanently buried. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u68	Questions on this matter will undoubtedly be continued. I congratulate Mr Moutquin on his maiden speech. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we read it all in the newspaper: the federal government is writing holiday parks and campsites asking whether they can place container rooms for asylum seekers. I was, perhaps with you, quite surprised. We could also read in the newspaper that illegal migration and asylum migration to Europe are finally reducing. More than that, in almost all European countries, the number of asylum applications is falling. Then, Madam Minister, why do you register our holiday parks and campsites with the question of whether they can place more asylum seekers? Why is Belgium the only country with such an increase in the number of asylum applications? The latest figures from the Commissioner for Refugees and the Stateless show that there are already more than 16% more asylum applications than at the same time last year. From 15,153 the number increased to 17.511. Could one reason, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps be that we are so naive here to approve as many as one in two asylum applications? In France, that's only one in four. Could it perhaps be because in Belgium there is hardly a small, sad number of one in ten asylum seekers who are effectively expelled from the country? Could it perhaps be, ladies and gentlemen, because we in Belgium have been so naive not only to open our borders, but also our social security? Madam Minister, why should our holiday parks and campsites provide additional places for asylum seekers, while the number of asylum applications in other countries is just falling? Why is Belgium the only country where the asylum crisis still seems to be getting worse?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u70	Mr Van Langenhove, Fedasil has indeed written a letter to the owners of holiday parks, not hotels, but chalets and perhaps tents, in order to have a number of places more available, if the demand would increase. During the 2015 asylum crisis, Fedasil made a similar appeal, which was addressed at that time. You are well aware that the number of asylum applications does not increase significantly in our country, but rather the number of multiple asylum applications, and that this need for places is not due to a high number of applications, but rather to the fact that the procedures of asylum seekers are not completed quickly enough by our administrations, which means that applicants remain in the reception network longer. That is the reality, so please inform me again. Measures have been taken to recruit more staff, both from the Foreign Office and from the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless, to speed up asylum procedures. That's starting to pay off. You also know that it is no good for anyone if people stay in the asylum procedure for too long, and that is why these measures were taken. We must give the people who are in our country and who still have the right to care. That is an international obligation and a commitment of our country to do so in a decent way. I'm paid to do that in my current position, and I will. You're paid to ask questions, but that's another matter. We may never agree, although we do not live far from each other. People must be received with dignity if they have applied for refugee recognition. On the other hand, you are going to argue at asylum centres, with the babies first, brave as you are. You know how I feel about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u71	Madam Minister, after so many years of asylum crisis, it seems that we are still tackling the symptoms and not addressing the causes. The names of the relevant ministers may have changed in recent years, but migration policy is still equally disastrous. No one is interested in having our barracks, holiday parks, campsites and even our rest homes crawled with asylum seekers: not those living around us, not the children, not the taxpayers, but especially the asylum seekers themselves, who have no future in our country. Look at the countries around us that are shooting in action. Look at the voter's signal, which begs for a fairer but, above all, stricter migration policy. Look at the figures in our country, which are much worse than in the rest of Europe. And do something. First of all, tighten up the law on family reunification. Secondly, the number of places in the closed centres is drastically increased rather than the number of places in the holiday parks. Thirdly, finally work on a genuine return policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u72	Mr Van Langenhove, you have made a statement, but at the end you will ask the Minister questions on matters which do not fall within her competence in current cases. You can take parliamentary initiatives to this end. However, it is not correct to confront a government now and ask it to carry out certain actions, when you know that it cannot do so. If you do not know this, you should consult a number of manuals. Nevertheless, I would like to congratulate you on your maiden speech. After all, I have to add that to my words. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u73	May I ask everyone to pursue succinctness? In der Beschränkung erst der Meister says.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u74	Mrs De Block, EUR 1.9 million is the price for one syringe. That one syringe might be able to prolong Pia's life. What world do we actually live in? Who would have thought anyone would dare to ask for such a sum for one syringe? You stand there as a parent, you don't count money, and then you're capable of anything. Multinationals like Novartis use this willingness shamelessly. All experts agree that the price of EUR 1.9 million has nothing to do with the research and development of this medicinal product. The icing on cake is that most research into the medicine Zolgensma has been done with French public money and even with crowdfunding. The price is only related to Novartis's profit figure. Novartis made a profit of 11.5 billion euros in 2018. With the injection of 1.9 million euros, 2019 will probably be a good year for the shareholders in this case. Across from the one million Belgians who sent a text for Pia, there is one person. That one person is you, Mrs. De Block. After all, you are our Minister of Health. I think everyone's wondering why you're saying there's nothing you can do. You have said that there is nothing you can do, but I have an article here which states that the same case occurred in Portugal in August of this year. That's where the government intervened. Why is that possible in Portugal and not here? Secondly, what are you going to do about the usury prices of the pharmaceutical industry in our country?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u75	Madam Minister, who was not moved by this little Pia, by her fight against a rare disease, by her parents and their fight to save her? I would like to put a moment in the heads of parents, who learn that there is a medicine but that it is not available in Belgium, and above all that its cost is exorbitant – 1.9 million euros. Parents move heaven and earth. They are calling for donations and reaping more than a million thanks to the solidarity of our fellow citizens. Everything becomes possible, the medicine will be delivered to the little Pia. Doctors disagree on the issue of the effectiveness of the medication. We want this medicine to produce its effects and my group reiterates its full support for the family for its courage. This momentum of solidarity and hope must not hide the shortcomings and difficulties of our drug policy, particularly the issue of access to advanced and innovative medicines. Minister, under the previous legislature, you have been constantly cutting out of the health care budget: 2 billion savings. At the same time, the drug budget is exploding and you do not demand that pharmaceutical companies go to the cash register. Minister, the increase in the price of drugs has been borne by all citizens. But when a firm puts an innovative drug on the market, citizens cannot access it because prices are exorbitant. Minister, what can we do here and now to ensure that social security can take over the reimbursement of these drugs and that there is finally a balance between the interests of these pharmaceutical companies and the interests of patients?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u76	I should like to remind you that the time limit is two minutes. Mrs Jiroflée, I give you the floor. However, I mentioned the above in general. After all, I see time passing. I do not want to be too strict the first time, but two minutes is a target time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u77	Mr President, that is correct. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, 'Pia': that is all I need to say so that everyone knows what it is about. Our country has experienced a warm wave of solidarity over the past week. I'm proud to be Belgian. We did a pretty good job of that. Madam Secretary, at the same time that wave pushes us, politicians, with the nose on the facts. I am talking about the fact that a pharmaceutical company dares to charge EUR 1.9 million for one shot. This is scandalous and makes me think that the pharmaceutical sector itself is sick. It is quite clear that in this case profit is more important than human lives. What happens to the next Pia's? We're gonna make that invention right away. Will we do this again next week and the following weeks? We all know that this is not the case. We all know that it is not desirable. That wouldn't be a good thing. On the other hand, the government must make it clear to the pharmaceutical sector that human lives are more important than profit. We need a strong government with strict rules to make a fist against big pharmaceutical. We have a number of concrete proposals for this, on which we have also been working throughout the previous legislature. I'm gonna get three of them out. Firstly, the government must set clear limits on the prices we want to accept in our country. Stop the secret negotiations, which only cost us a bunch of money. Secondly, there must be transparency and European cooperation. The Court of Auditors and the KCE have also often indicated this. Thirdly, break through the monopoly of the pharmaceutical sector for research and production. Too often the cost of research is the excuse to charge outrageously high prices. Madam Minister, before I ask my questions, I would like to say something about these figures very quickly. Pfizer, for example, spends EUR 6.6 billion on research every year. The company spends 14 billion euros on marketing, more than double. Johnson & Johnson spends €9 billion on research and €20 billion on marketing. Whoever hears those numbers knows. Mr President, I have two brief questions. Madam Minister, first of all, what steps have you taken in the specific dossier on this medicine? After all, that was a bit unclear. At first, you said you couldn't do anything, and then you turned out to have talked. Secondly, do you agree that it is urgent for a stronger government with stronger rules when it comes to the pharmaceutical sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u78	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Team Pia's action is putting our noses on the facts. There is the debate again on the usury prices of medicines. A wave of solidarity flooded Flanders and all of Belgium. We in Parliament must recognise, regardless of emotions, that we face enormous challenges. It is precisely because of a lack of political agreements on the pricing of medicines that the pharmaceutical industry can go its own way. Why are certain drugs so expensive? The answer is simple: because it is possible, because it is possible. That's impossible, isn't it? Surely we cannot allow a child's life to depend on crowdfunding. That is not the way we want to organise our health care, I hope. Now it's Pia, a few years ago it was Viktor. A million people have texted now. A million people are calling on you to deal with that and avoid another case. I actually see this as a referendum, with a very clear judgment. A million people are asking us to put politics on hold to the almighty pharmaceutical industry. They ask us to make the procedures relating to pricing transparent and to regulate. I realize that these are difficult questions, but we cannot avoid them here. It is our responsibility to work on an answer, for all the Pia's that are going to follow here in Belgium. Madam Minister, what have you done in recent years to address this issue, with national but also European legislation? What agreements have been made with the pharmaceutical industry to work towards transparent pricing and to be transparent about profits? What do you want to do about this in the short term, in current cases?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u79	Mr President, Minister, 'Team Pia', it has already become a concept. I suspect that I am not alone and that the President, the Minister and many of my colleagues have also sent a number of texts here in recent days to get EUR 1.9 million. We must ask ourselves how many Pia's parents can recover from social security. Madam Minister, Mr President, I am sure you know the answer. I and all of you know the answer: EUR 0.0. Those parents were obliged to send a text message to Miss Belgium to save their daughter. In the meantime, Madam Secretary, you state in the media that there is nothing you can do about it. As an accomplished Pontius Pilate, wash your hands in innocence and say that your hands and feet are tied, because the medicine in question has not yet been recognised by the European Agency for Medicinal Products. Madam Secretary, you disappoint me there. I expected a little more creativity from you. Why can't we in our country, as the honourable Member has rightly pointed out, what can be done in Portugal? Why can't we in our country do what we can in France? Why can we not arrange in our country the reimbursement of a medicinal product for which there is already a procedure and for which there is recognition abroad?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u80	Mr President, Madam Minister, this week Belgium has been moved, both in the North and in the South, by the situation of Pia, a nine-month-old baby, a person with a rare disease, spinal amyotrophy. Currently treated with a medicine called Spinraza, her parents wanted to give her access to an alternative and new medicine, Zolgensma. In the face of the exorbitant price of this new medicine, almost two million euros, Pia's parents launched a fundraiser on the internet and via SMS. The mobilization and the rapid and massive solidarity of the Belgians made it possible to raise this amount in just two days. This huge boost of generosity obviously revives the debate on a series of issues, including the price of some innovative medicines for rare diseases, the reimbursement of these medicines and also the detection of these rare diseases which, in this case, would be different in the north and south of the country. With regard to the reimbursement of Zolgensma, it should be recalled that it cannot currently be reimbursed by INAMI because it has not yet been approved by the European Medicines Agency. However, in order to speed up the procedure for reimbursement of pharmaceutical products, our government has been working with those in the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Austria since 2016 to allow faster access to these medicines. It is thanks to this collaboration that the reimbursement of the drug Spinraza has existed since last year. It seems that you have proposed to Novartis to activate the "compassionate use program" procedure with the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products. This was intended to result in an authorization to issue this medicine. Minister, what is the status of this procedure? Have you received a positive response from Novartis? If so, what would the benefits be for Pia and other Belgian patients? In what time frame? More broadly, could you give us your opinion on this situation? What measures have you taken or could you take to deal with these very heavy financial burdens for parents and families?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u81	Madam Minister, we have seen a great boost of generosity and a mobilization of the Belgians around the dramatic situation of this little Pia, who suffers from a particularly severe pathology: spinal amyotrophy. I am not going to ask you specifically about the medicine Zolgensma, especially since it is not yet approved by the European Medicines Agency. Also, let's be honest, doctors wonder about its effectiveness, given the age of this little girl. Nor am I going to start here, as some people do, a legal and unilateral trial against a particular pharmaceutical company. Yes, these costs, these prices are indecent! However, it is our responsibility. Of course, there is the case with little Pia, but there are also many other patients who suffer from rare diseases and who need innovative medicines, which sometimes have a very high cost – perhaps not as much as the one we are talking about. This reminds us of the urgency of finding effective solutions – all of us, men and women politicians. I have always said this for the last five years: the initiative taken by Benelux, Austria and, more recently, Ireland was far too timid – because part of the solution requires that the issue be extended to the European level. I'll finish it. We will soon be holding hearings in the Committee on Public Health. Minister, although we are in day-to-day business, I submit the following proposal to you. Our collective responsibility – government, Parliament and experts – is to find ambitious and effective solutions for all patients involved. Therefore, I propose that you work together, but remain concrete, because day-to-day affairs cannot, of course, prevent us, given the urgency, from responding effectively to such situations.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u82	Mr President, Minister, Flanders has met little Pia in the last week. I must say that what Flanders did was also heartwarming for me. As a mom and as a young grandmother, that certainly affects me. But, there are a lot of Pia's in our country. I feel here, and I have a great deal of sympathy for that, a lot of warmth for many babies and small children. But let us put things in perspective, there are 500,000 Belgians who suffer from one of the 6,000 rare diseases. For many of them there is no or only limited access to innovative medicines. Let's do something about that together. Madam Secretary, I know that in recent years, together with your administration, you have created many frameworks to do something about this. Much has already happened in the field of price formation and reimbursement. You have also taken a great deal of action on this issue in international fora. We did this together in the previous legislature, as a team. Three things are very important to my party, Madam Secretary. Firstly, we must come to a single European prize. It cannot be that all European countries are being foamed off to negotiate and then say: if the medicine is approved, you must pay it or that price. Secondly, it is very important that we link the refund to the effectiveness of the medicine. If it works, we have to be accommodating. If it doesn't work, we don't have to pay back, or only partially. Thirdly, and finally, Madam Minister, today we often see such high prices being demanded. I believe that no one here has a problem with the proper funding of scientific research. The fact that this is linked to economic law will not be a problem for most of us in this House either. But where there is a big problem is that very large margins are being taken. We need to think about how in future we can decouple funding for research and development from marketing and producing medicines. Madam Secretary, I know the government is in business. I know you've done a lot, and I want to know from you what you're going to do here, not in the next few months, but in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u83	Madam Secretary, everyone in our country can only look with a warm heart at last week's action. Anyone who has children can imagine that, if one finds themselves in this situation, one will go to the extreme to get the maximum for his or her child, even though there is no approved medicine at the moment. One does at such a time the maximum in order to achieve salvation. In that respect, I say chapeau for what Pia's parents have done. There may not be many colleagues who have not sent a text, I too have. However, the fact that we are doing this as a human being and as a human being think that we should respond to the call of parents does not mean that the minister responsible for policy should not keep his head down. That is something else: what one does with public money within a given framework of recognition and how one deals with refunds is something other than the human compassion which we naturally express in the event of that occurrence. Of course, it is a bit more complicated in that respect. Procedures such as European recognition, of course, do exist for a reason, for example to scientifically demonstrate that a medicine is working and that it is safe. This has not yet been fully recognised by a number of specialists. We all hope it will work, but we are not at all sure. I will not confine myself to statements, Mr President. I have the following questions, Madam Secretary. Right now, SMA patients are getting the drug Spinraza. I read an article that said that a lot of patients are happy that Minister De Block has allocated half a million euros in recent years to repay that medicine. Are you afraid of having an effect on the negotiations on the recognition of that medicine? After all, a number of parents are concerned about this. It has been said that there is nothing you can do in current cases, but I understand that you have done something: you have insisted on the compassionate-use programme. I would like to make that clear. What exactly have you done with regard to the producer and what could be done about dialogue?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u84	You will have the floor shortly, Madam Minister, but first I would like to congratulate Mrs Merckx, Mrs Creemers, Mr Creyelman and Mrs Taquin for their maiden speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u85	I would like to stress once again that speaking time is the rule in principle for two minutes, but we still have to get used to it. Some say I'm getting a little milder with age, but it's good for once, let's just say. Next time you do not prepare much, because if you prepare a lot on paper, the speeches usually take too long. You have received a lot of questions, Madam Minister, from nine Members of Parliament, so I will also be a little more lenient for you. You can do your thing, but you can't do it indefinitely, of course.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u86	Thank you, Mr President. You're getting milder, because I've known you a long time. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. Many have rightly asked questions, because of course this is a very emotional matter, with a child suffering from muscle disease like Pia. The cause can't be fixed, it's a genetic defect. At present, there are very few treatment options. As I said, there's Spinraza. That was actually a groundbreaking drug that also won the Galenus Prize here. At that time we negotiated hard with the Dutch to arrive at a treatment with a price of about EUR 500,000 per child or adult per year. Then there's the famous Zolgensma. The name sounds Dutch but it comes from America. It's a drug that would affect the cause and thus mitigate the genetic defect. The long-term effects are not yet fully known and there is not much research done in children because of course this is all rather delicate. So far little Pia has received treatment with Spinraza, but it is normal that the parents are looking for a more definitive solution. It would only be a one-off shot, albeit under certain conditions. Any of us who have children or grandchildren would do the same to me. After all, they want his child to heal. People only have one wish, a healthy child that has the best possible quality of life. Of course, I can fully follow them in that. Then we come to the business aspect. The emotion is great, but of course we are bound by procedures and registrations. This medicine has not yet been authorised by the European Medicines Agency. We have, of course, checked with the European Medicines Agency and they expect this registration to be made by the end of this year. Only then will it be possible for the individual Member States to adopt them. With us it is first up to the Minister of Economic Affairs for pricing, after which the Committee on Medicinal Products will follow. That's what I explained. There's nothing I can do about the refund right now. After all, we have not even started the procedure. Europe must not start them. We are indeed tied to our hands and feet in this respect. I did contact Novartis directly for the compassionate use. For clinical trials, the child is no longer eligible. She was supposed to be too old and the application happened too late. That compassionate use, so giving the medicine free of charge by the firm to the child, who cannot wait another year and a half, has been refused by the company. Novartis has indeed done so in Portugal, but there too, a crowdfunding has been organised in the same way. Here the company refused to do so, because we have about a dozen new patients a year and also do not know when the refund will come. I keep asking the question. I'm not gonna give up on the business. I believe that a company that actually markets a drug whose research was largely funded by either public funds or the French themselves, after which it was bought for a lot of money by Novartis, also has a social responsibility and must remain human. It is indeed a very expensive treatment that costs EUR 1.9 million. Mrs Merckx, you just turned it into EUR 1.9 billion. That's a little more. I understand, however, that millions and billions are often not far apart here in the Chamber. However, like you, I am asking serious questions at that cost. After all, it is a huge and huge sum. You will therefore understand that the Special Solidarity Fund still does not have enough money to intervene. It can do a modest intervention. However, if it spends EUR 1.9 million on a child, the Special Solidarity Fund will not be able to do anything for all other patients and will only be able to repay two more patients a year. There was an action by the parents, as happened in Portugal, and there was the justified great emotion. People see the images of an innocent nine-month-old child, who, unlike other age groups, cannot crawl. Then, of course, the question arises as to why the government does not just pay that amount. Why don't you let your heart speak there, and why don't you just pay it back as a minister? There are rules. The value and safety of the medicine must be recognised by a number of bodies, and an acceptable price must be negotiated with the government. Suppose the government decided to pay back the 1.9 million euros for this drug. At that time, companies are being given the signal to forget all these negotiations and reimbursement procedures. Suppose I decided what was and what shouldn't be repaid. I believe that I would then have many more questions in this Chamber and raise many more emotions, because that would also mean that I can decide who gets a refund or not. I think it is healthy that this is not a political responsibility. If such an exuberant sum could be collected from public opinion by launching an action and generating emotion, people might come to their senses and our system of reimbursement of health care could be completely overruled, which would mean that we would have no money in the shortest time. I think the commitment of these million citizens is fantastic, but we must also think about the other patients. The availability and reimbursement of the medicines should not and should never depend on an SMS action. We must develop structural solutions to these problems. A number of measures have already been taken. As you know, I have set up international cooperation with five countries. Mrs Fonck, I myself waited very long for Europe to take the initiative to do the same with the 28 countries at the time, today. This has never been the case. And so I took the initiative myself. This is recognised as best practice, although abroad, but of course not here. What would happen if our patients could no longer have access to these medicines? Mrs Jiroflée is very convinced that a maximum price would solve everything. Well, I tell you that it is already not interesting for some companies to offer certain medicines in Belgium, because we have very low prices, thanks to the Future Pact. The budget for medicines increased by an average of 1.5 % over the last five years, while inflation was 1.8 %. We have therefore remained below the inflation level. Know your grades if you want to convince me. The future pact has been created precisely in order to give greater transparency. So that was a good thing. In the light of the hearings in the Chamber, we need to consider what we could include in a future pact, so what agreements we should make with the pharmaceutical industry. One thing has gone wrong in Europe, and I have already mentioned this at European level. In 2000, orphan medicinal products were given special protection for 10 years after their recognition by Europe as an orphan medicinal product. Well, that was wrong. The intention was good, because until then there was too little research on orphan medicines. However, this has now led to the monopoly position of a firm so that it can ask for such sums. I have already mentioned this at European level, at the OECD and wherever it is possible. In this respect, we must look for cooperation within Europe. I am glad that since the day before yesterday a Belgian regional director of the WHO has been present. I'm sure he's willing to help us with that. For the rest, Mrs. Fonck, I accept your request to seek solutions for all patients in our country. There are great challenges ahead. According to the scanning horizon, what is in the pipeline is huge. It's huge. For years I have been asking how we can continue to offer all these medicines to our patients at an affordable price, for the patient but also for the government. For that, Mrs Fonck, it is true that we must work together on a policy. All political groups must put their hands on this, in great solidarity, because this is about the patient. Political profiling with weird e-mails and tweets won't make the patient any better.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u87	Mrs. De Block, if I understand you correctly, you're sticking to your point of view. The medicine may soon be on the market, but then it will of course be too late for Pia. I am thinking of the saying 'emergency breaks the law' and I believe, Mrs de Block, that you are absolutely not taking up your responsibilities here. I would like to give you the article explaining that the government in Portugal responded to crowdfunding by taking up the costs and using the money from crowdfunding for other children. Let us not talk about the future, but about the past. What you are not saying is that your policy of recent years has been one of secret agreements with the pharmaceutical industry through Article 81. The evidence is there, which has caused the cost of immune therapy, for example, to swing out of the pan, Mrs De Block. Today we need more transparency and we need to put the pharmaceutical industry on its responsibilities. That is possible, for example through compulsory licences. I see you don't have an ear for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u88	Minister, we did not talk about early detection. It is known that disease can be avoided if treatment is taken before symptoms develop. There, the small Belgians are not equal since in the Wallonia-Brussels federation, screening has been free since March 2018, but not in Flanders. I wanted to point that out, even if it is not within our competence. For me, it is really intolerable to find that parents at the bedside of their sick child are learning the existence of a medicine abroad, which is rare and expensive, and that the public authorities are letting pharmaceutical companies impose their law. For us Socialists, we must allow everyone access to innovative medicines through the means of social security. A balanced policy is needed that ensures that medicines – which are not goods like others – are available to all and that we finally say "stop" to the sole market logic and to the benefit.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u89	I repeat that you have one minute for a brief reply and not to start a new one.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u90	Madam Secretary, I hear you in favour of structural measures. I am glad that we already agree on this. I repeat my plea for government to have a finger in the porridge, as far as I am concerned, several fingers in the porridge. If the research and marketing of the medication without government intervention remains in the hands of the pharmaceutical industry, it will only bring us misery and would give us health care at two speeds. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope we can agree that we do not want health care at two speeds. That's very clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u91	Madam Minister, I hear many elements of answer, but little about these actions for transparency about profits in the pharmaceutical industry...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u92	(...)
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u93	I also asked what you have done about it in the past, but I do not hear anything about it. I do hear a great deal of determination and many groups with the same message, in particular to work together in committee with one goal in mind, namely to ensure that it does not depend on the goodwill of people whether or not a life is saved. I believe that there should be no party politics in this debate. In committee, I would certainly like to join with my group Ecolo-Green in promoting the accessibility of all medicines to everyone and to allow transparency in the pharmaceutical sector.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u94	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I cannot get the impression that you are hiding behind European legislation, legislation, all kinds of rules. Since it is about the health of our people, I had hoped that you would show a little more courage and courage by walking away from it for once. It strikes me that in this country there is apparently money for everything, money for the most grotesque fools. There are billions to help us catch asylum seekers. However, when it comes to the health of our own people, there is apparently too little or even no money. Madam Minister, I have only one reaction to that: I think that is a disgrace.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u95	Minister, I would like to thank you for your clarification. You can hear a lot of "there's only one". I find it a shame, on the part of some, to surf on a story as emotional, as dramatic and as sensitive as Pia's. Other children and individuals face this problem, have been and will be. I understand that the situation is complex. My group also understands that you have invested in finding solutions. Obviously, to realize the complexity of a case, you have to have worked in an executive. Madam Minister, we will therefore be at your side, through the work in committee, to make constructive progress.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u96	Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this citizens' impetus for Pia must also allow for a political start. We clearly lack anticipation of the future on both the cost, the reimbursement and the availability of all innovative medicines. This is indeed a significant number of drugs that will grow, and a significant number of patients for whom these drugs are crucial. We have three proposals on the table. First of all, there is a need to expand at European level. We are still too small despite our willingness to work together on common costs. France and Germany are two partners who must be able to join us quickly. Secondly, efforts must be made to have more transparent procedures; that must be the case. Finally, it is necessary to consider paying the firms according to the effectiveness of the treatment, even if it is spread over several years. Madam Minister, I heard you very well. Let us move forward together instead of trying to take advantage of each other politically! This will not be the case for little Pia, nor will it be the case for all the other patients who are now waiting for a reasonable cost and the fastest possible availability for patients, in accordance with the rules of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u97	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to call for the necessary reasonableness to be brought to this debate in the coming weeks, because I have heard a lot of things here. For example, it was about compulsory licences, but if companies leave our country today, then the same parties here will in a few months' time call for employment to disappear in our country. There was also talk of vaccinations. Vaccinations are also financed by the pharmaceutical sector in Wallonia. In Flanders we want a good and correct framework. We want to make the right decisions before proceeding with vaccinations. Let us be honest about the debate, because patients are entitled to sustainable and affordable solutions. In the coming weeks, for the many Pia's and the 500,000 Belgians who are suffering from a rare disease today, let us find solutions together in all honesty and correctness at the table.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u98	Madam Minister, I agree with the last two speakers. I have heard very emotional arguments from a number of colleagues: a disgrace, it cannot be, it is bad. Some things in life are indeed bad, but policy holders may be expected to call a little more than "shame" and "it cannot." We are expected to find solutions in a reasonable way. This will be done through consultation and the evaluation of procedures. Those procedures have their origins. We cannot force an international company to make a medicine available in the small country of Belgium overnight. If we act in this way, we should not complain that employment in the entire pharmaceutical sector in our country may soon disappear. A hearing can then be held on restructuring in these companies, because that is a bad thing. So we need to show a little more sense in emotional debates. I hope that, in the coming weeks, we will be able to go beyond the delusion of the day and do genuinely substantive politics here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u99	Mrs. Van Peel, it certainly won't be your maiden speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u100	Mr President, Minister, once again we are talking about medical quotas. A new year has begun: the medical study has started and for the 21st time since the introduction of the quota at the federal level, in French-speaking Belgium, it has been possible to start twice as many students if at the end of the journey there will be a RIZIV number and so can work legally. In Flanders they have been very good for the 21st time, because so are we, Flemings. I wonder if that scares you, Madam Secretary. I would find that completely strange, because this time you are at the root of the situation. In the previous legislature, we adopted together a law that abolished the lissage, but after the elections, you slylyly issued a KB with which you overruled the law and with which you actually pardoned a general again. However, the situation is serious. Yesterday the report of the Planning Committee was issued. I'm gonna get a few elements out of that. That report shows that you recall the painful debate just now, which shows that there is too little money for expensive medicines, but in the meantime we allow French-speaking Belgium to empty our health care with their number of doctors, that there is a huge amount of specialists, even half of them per 10,000 inhabitants than in Flanders, that there are a number of general practitioners, that there is no distribution of part-specialities, which is, however, for a long time a Community competence, and I have once been under fire for an hour in the previous legislature by the whole of this side, that the French-speaking doctors work less than the Flemish doctors. The French-speaking doctors work on average four fifths of a full-time, the Flemish doctors on average six fifths of a full-time. That's a small difference. Let me explain to you why: if there are too many doctors, there are not enough patients. If there are too many doctors, then they let tests happen that are not necessary because they also like to earn a living. If there are too many doctors, one gets overconsumption and the figures prove that in the south of the country overconsumption is much higher. That is why the quota system was introduced at the time. I'd just like to show you that it's a serious file. I therefore have the following questions, Madam Secretary. How much longer will you have the health care sucked out on the Flemish hood? Why the hell did you issue another KB with a general pardon after Parliament was dissolved? What will you do next academic year, because maybe you'll still be there and you'll be able to issue another C.B.?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u101	Mrs van Peel, it is certainly not your maiden speech about quotas, but I have heard you say it better than today. Several initiatives have been taken by the previous government to secure the quota system in Flanders and Wallonia. A new distribution key came from the Court of Auditors and the removal of the transfers that were built over the years was mandatory. There is now also a key to limiting the amount of graduation at a certain point. I didn't pardon a general. There was a number of students in Flanders, due to the years of political stalemate. That was 200 and on the other hand there were twice as many. Those are the facts. I studied medicine myself, and I went to propose a book to young doctors today. By the way, I invite you to read it. These are motivated people who struggle through difficult studies. They study for seven years, they're sponsored and they do all kinds of jobs. At the end you want to say, precisely for the sake of your equalness, that those Flemish and Walloon boys and girls cannot get their diploma and therefore cannot achieve their dream of becoming a doctor. Well, you may be, but I'm not like that. We could meet within the Inter-Ministerial Conference, but you know that it has not yet been put together because we do not yet have a Flemish and Federal Minister for Health. Well, there are eight others, so it's gonna come off someday. There's the key. That is where we need to talk about the formula to be used to determine how many students are allowed to start training as doctors, based on the figures of the planning committee. By the way, I invited that planning committee to the Inter-Ministerial Conference. We have drawn up a proposal for a protocol agreement, but the federal government does not really have a majority anymore. Mrs van Peel, if you had stayed on board, you would have been able to defend it with all the fire you always talk to here. I note that the quota system in the Walloon coalition agreement is still in place. If we ever get to the negotiating table at federal level, you will find me by your side to put that on the table and find solutions. However, these solutions cannot come from a health minister alone in current cases.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u102	Mr President, Minister, I have already known you better. I thank you for explaining the law that I myself, along with my group, wrote, that was indeed the solution. But there was a sting that we didn't think you would use, especially by means of a royal decree. You did indeed and I could not have stopped you, even if we had been there. As long as the other Flemish parties allow it, this saga will continue. The French-speaking parties will not want to change this as long as the bill is in the federal health budget. Flanders therefore needs to react more strongly in this dossier. There's a government formation in progress. I call on Flanders to stop being the good one in the class and pay the bill. We must have our own policy for our Flemish students. Madam Secretary, you can explain that account to the Flemings, because I can't do it anymore.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u103	Mr President, Minister, the use of nitrous oxide in young people continues to raise questions. It is primarily an authorised medicine, but it has been used as a drug by young people in recent years. I have done some research and noticed that also on social media through Instagram channels nitrous bottles are sold to young people. This is no longer about whipped cream capsules but about 2.5 litre nitrous bottles. 2.5 litre laughing gas bottles, which are used in medical applications in hospitals, are now sold to young people who want to get excited. The consequences, as you know, are certainly not negligible. I am talking about brain damage and dementia, but also about various road accidents that have occurred under the influence of nitrous oxide. Recently, in June 2019, there was an accident in Kortessem with five young people, all of whom died. In 2015, you started a working group to map the use of nitrous oxide. I very much appreciate that initiative, but the conclusion of that time is no longer topical at all. The reality shows that the use of nitrous oxide is certainly problematic, whereas the conclusion of the working group at the time was that it would not be problematic. Are you prepared to instruct the working group again to map the use of nitrous oxide? What can you do in current cases, particularly in view of the increase in problems, to solve the problem?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u104	Mr President, Mrs Farih, thank you for your first question. It is true that the recreational use of nitrous oxide is increasing. We are getting information from the field of police, among others, that more empty cream patterns are being found. We also know about accidents, which may have caused nitrous oxide. There is the Scientific Institute Sciensano, which occasionally reports poisoning by nitrous oxide through the Belgian Early Warning System on Drugs. However, these are still rare cases. The Antitoxin Centre also receives few calls about this. Experts haven't detected any addictions in our country yet. They believe that there is currently no problematic use of nitrous oxide. Nevertheless, the problem certainly needs our attention. Its use simply cannot be banned, because we frequently use the approved food additive in question in our regular food industry. It should also be remembered that there is a single European market and that this product can indeed be ordered abroad. That does not mean, however, that we cannot take any action. A Working Party on Drugs was established for this purpose through the Inter-Ministerial Conference. You are asking me to give this working group a new mandate, but I do not even know if I can do that in current cases. With your regards, I might be able to ask. In any case, we will continue to do so through the police, the municipal services and the local authorities, as well as through the Communities. We are trying to reduce the phenomenon of the use of nitrous oxide. Young people are curious and want to do it for the fun. The effect is apparently not thrilling, but the attraction lies in the fact that it is forbidden. We agree on that. The working group will continue to follow the case. You say that there has been a previous opinion, which was still too good and which concluded that there was no problem yet. I think that a problem is gradually emerging in the field and that the next working group must act decisively.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u105	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I understand it's not an easy problem to deal with. However, it reassures me that you are looking forward to having the next working group start with my regards. I hope that you will not allow this issue to continue and that we can work together to reduce the use of nitrous oxide.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u106	I also congratulate the last speaker on her maiden speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u107	This proposal was adopted by the Committee on External Relations in accordance with Art. 76 of the Regulation. This proposal was adopted by the Committee on External Relations pursuant to Art. 76 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u108	The text adopted by the committee serves as the basis for discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (395/2) The text adopted by the committee is the basis for the discussion. (Rgt 85, 4) (395/2) The discussion is open. The meeting's open.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u109	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin my speech by thanking my colleagues in the Committee on External Relations who have given me the honour of being the rapporteur of the first text adopted by our committee. I would also like to thank the services for the speed with which they drafted the report of our discussions since yesterday. Given the quality of the report, I refer to the written report. I am now speaking on behalf of my political group, the Reform Movement. Ladies and gentlemen, Belgium's accession to the INSTEX mechanism is one of the elements of a much larger puzzle that, for the international community, composes the Iranian case. There is the 2015 nuclear agreement, the issue of missile proliferation, the question of sanctions imposed on Iran, Tehran's influence in the region – I am thinking of Yemen, Iraq, Syria and Lebanon – its rivalry with Saudi Arabia and the extraterritorial nature of American legislation, of which we Europeans are challenging legitimacy. Each of these issues deserves, of course, our full attention, but it is their combination that makes the solutions complex, and even without discouragement, today impossible. Nevertheless, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Belgium must adhere to this mechanism both in substance and in form. On the shape first. We are Belgians, we are Europeans, advocates of multilateralism. Our two-year presence in the United Nations Security Council as a non-permanent member attests to this. On this basis, we believe that trade relations, sanctions regimes and international military operations must take place within the framework of the community of Nations – the World Trade Organization, the Security Council or at least the Atlantic Alliance. We disapprove of unilateral trade measures, blockages in dispute resolution mechanisms, the use of military force outside the legitimacy of a United Nations decision or the adoption of national legislation with an international impact. Payment channels to Iran are particularly vulnerable to the US sanction policy, due to the international role of the US dollar. Washington uses this national instrument as a tool for its foreign policy. Of course, we deplore and condemn him. We must circumvent this quasi-monopoly of the dollar in international transactions using the force of the euro. More pragmatically, we must resort to INSTEX as a means of circumventing these national sanctions, the principle of which we reject. Mr President, Mr Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, two substantive arguments have convinced the committee, which almost unanimously adopted the motion for a resolution. The first, as you have pointed out, Minister of Foreign Affairs, is a positive and strong signal of support for the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPoA), which absolutely needs it. To date, we have no other way of preventing Iran from pursuing its nuclear programme towards the path to nuclear weapons. If Iran had it, it would be the entire Near and Middle East that would be structurally affected. The JCPoA contains highly intrusive monitoring mechanisms that must be sustained. Moreover, Iran must also be able to redevelop its economy for the benefit of its inhabitants and, to that end, trade and benefit from foreign investment. Iran must be able to earn economic returns as a result of its respect for the JCPoA. I come to the second substantive argument: the legal and financial protection of our businesses. The financial uncertainty, which stems from the extraterritorial effect of American decisions, is also felt by us. In 2017, our trade relations with Iran were promising, as we were Iran's tenth largest trading partner. However, as of 2018, the trend has reversed. The figures of the External Trade Agency show that, unfortunately, it was further strengthened in the first quarter of this year, with the fall reaching more than 60%. With our membership in INSTEX, we will be able to defend our positions in the fields of medicines, medical devices, food, construction and consumer goods. Two thirds of our country's exports to Iran would be concerned. In addition, INSTEX is currently a modest tool, but it should be considered as a first step. It will be necessary to analyse the reaction of economic and financial operators and, as soon as INSTEX is operational – let us be optimistic – to extend it to other economic sectors. These are the main arguments that motivate my group to support Belgium's accession to INSTEX, with the hope that this issue will evolve positively in the coming weeks. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u110	Ladies and gentlemen, apart from the financial implications required by the participation in INSTEX, we must ask ourselves whether it is appropriate to play into the hands of the Iranian ayatollah regime in this way. It is clear that INSTEX is in any case undermining sanctions against Iran and can set a precedent in this respect. For example, the present resolution shows that there is currently no support within the EU. Not even half of the Member States are in favour of this mechanism at the moment. A resolution on Iran was adopted this afternoon in the European Parliament by an overwhelming majority. She spoke about the situation of women's rights activists in that country and about prisoners of both Iranian and European nationality. It is very specific about women's rights activists who were randomly imprisoned and sentenced to imprisonment between 16 and 24 years. It is also about the capture of a Swedish scientist and physician born in Iran, and about the CEO of an Austrian IT company. This happens every time on espionage charges. Closer to home, VUB professor Ahmadreza Djalali has been locked up on charges of espionage for three years and was sentenced to death after a mock trial. In addition to the moral aspect, the question is whether it is worth the coal in commercial terms. INSTEX is an ad hoc instrument designed to represent private commercial interests, but it also sets a dangerous precedent for avoiding Western sanctions, in this case US sanctions. In this way the West may be deprived of a powerful instrument in international politics. Therefore, Flemish Interest cannot approve this resolution.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u111	Mrs. Samyn, congratulations on your first speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u112	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote in favour of this resolution. We had an in-depth discussion on this in committee. Our amendments were also adopted. However, we also consider it important because the INSTEX mechanism is closely linked to compliance with the nuclear agreement. We want to give the signal that we must do everything we can, especially now with the tensions in the region, to safeguard that agreement. In addition, INSTEX protects our companies. It provides legal certainty and deals with Iran, albeit limited to the health and food sector. This also addresses the humanitarian needs of the Iranian people. INSTEX is linked to the explicit commitment that Iran must take measures to tackle money laundering and counter the financing of terrorism. Ladies and gentlemen, it is absolutely not certain whether the mechanism will work. That is why we have asked for a careful follow-up. We have asked for a report from Parliament. We believe it is important to take steps in this area. It is also important that we continue to condemn human rights violations in respect of the Iranian regime. At the same time, we must react strongly to their negative role in the Middle East and Europe. After all, the regime does not hesitate to tackle and even eliminate political dissidents. In short, this resolution is absolutely not a blank cheque to support trade with Iran. We do see it as an important political signal to ensure that the nuclear agreement is respected. After all, we believe that this is important for safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u113	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to the Middle East, we must, of course, always bear in mind the need for stability, both for the region itself and for the fact that it is one of the important suppliers of asylum flows, as we have known in the past and until today. Iran is an important actor and is geostrategically even the winner in the Middle East of the first nineteen years of this century. The country has been able to position itself in a position that Iran probably never had in the past and is therefore an important player who constantly puts the stability at least under pressure, but who could also theoretically be an important partner to ensure stability, which is the logic of the fact that it puts that stability under pressure. In view of the interpretations of the nuclear agreement, the United States has chosen a position under President Trump which Europe has not followed. You were right to do that. The European Union certainly does not have to follow the somewhat ill-considered attitude of the American President in these matters by definition. Having said that, this should not lead us to a naivety with regard to the Iranian regime, which, according to the current events of the past week, again has an active or passive influence on stability. We have asked a few questions about the INSTEX mechanism, for example about the role of China and Russia in this. Let us not be naive either: we must always balance our legitimate independence from the United States with an important degree of Western solidarity. To what extent can and will China and Russia be able to use an instrument such as INSTEX to push a number of international payment mechanisms in a fundamentally different direction across the Iranian question? I have just spoken about the role of Iran itself, in which any form of naivety is out of the question. The issue of Iran's internal policy on human rights has rightly been discussed here. Finally, during the debate in committee this week I asked a number of questions about the effectiveness of the INSTEX instrument. Let us be honest, it is a commendable attempt, but some restraint is needed when it is said that a guaranteed mechanism is now being set up that can do what it really serves. We approved the motion for a resolution in committee the day before yesterday, but in the light of the fact that the regions must be explicitly involved in it. That is in the resolution. The promise was also made to hear experts in the committee against the background of the open questions that continue to arise in this mechanism. Against this background, my group will vote in favour of this resolution, but of course it is our intention to do so, and we are counting on everyone to carry out this commitment in committee, so that we can ask the experts in the near future. It is also true that the assessment of what is happening today must be taken into account in the way in which the government will continue to deal with this matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u114	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very interesting and constructive debate that was held in committee on Tuesday in order to approve this motion for a resolution which supports Belgium's accession to INSTEX. It was a debate where the minister was able to respond satisfactorily – and I thank him for that – to our many questions and reflections. Since the two socialist amendments have been incorporated into the text on our benches today, we will support this motion for a resolution. Colleagues, this process of joining INSTEX is not annoyed. Behind it are even colossal stakes. Under the previous legislature, my political group had already strongly condemned the American decision to withdraw from the Vienna Nuclear Agreement and to reinvigorate harsh economic sanctions against Tehran. Like other decisions of the Trump administration, the latter, unilateral, once again has potentially dangerous consequences for an area already armed to its teeth. The news of the last few days does not deny me. For it is the Trump administration – we have reminded it in committee – that first came out of the commitments of the 2015 Treaty by probably opening a Pandora's box. What we consider particularly problematic and unacceptable with this American decision is its extraterritorial consequences. This decision and the potential sanctions that accompany it against European companies constitute an attack in good standing against the sovereignty of Europeans, including their sovereignty to freely choose their trading partners. We Europeans are not the diplomatic slaves, the diplomatic vassals of the United States. Here's one of the messages from the mechanism that's on the table. But if INSTEX – and this is the point of view we have defended in committee – is an interesting mechanism to preserve our business positions and defend our businesses, it is also a political tool whose scope should not be overlooked. The Vienna Nuclear Agreement was based on a very delicate balance between constraints and benefits: Tehran renounces military nuclear power and, in return, is freed from sanctions on the development of its economy. While it is true that such an agreement is never perfect, it nevertheless had the merit of making it impossible for Iran to build an atomic weapon. Today, while the American withdrawal has probably hit the Vienna Agreement fatally, INSTEX may be able to draw a new horizon of stability by offering Iran economic benefits, which is important, to keep it within the scope of its nuclear commitments. Therefore, in our view, the balance between constraints and benefits contained in the INSTEX mechanism must be as close as possible to that underlying the Vienna Agreement. In this regard, we have expressed our perplexity about the very restrictive scope of a mechanism whose oil is excluded. However, it is vital to the Iranian economy. The latter's exports have been divided by 25 in recent months. Will the economic benefits of INSTEX be sufficient to save the spirit, if not the letter of the Vienna Agreement, and bring Iran back to full and unconditional compliance with its nuclear commitments? Will they be sufficient to force that country to remain within the scope of non-proliferation? These issues are essential. On this point, we were pleased to note the availability of the minister, who is considering, in the long run, an expansion of INSTEX's scope of action in order to enhance the interest of the programme for Iran and its potential stabilizing effect for the Middle East. Nevertheless, there is no question of angelism in relation to Iran: its ballistic programme raises questions, its regional influence is often harmful and the human rights situation in the country is bad. But we believe that literally ruining the country's economy – as is currently the case –, depriving it of development prospects and playing the game of the Trump administration will only increase uncertainty and chaos, while strengthening hawks everywhere. One cannot betray one's own commitments, kneel a whole country and then hope that it will play the game of peace and cooperation. INSTEX thus appears as a glimmer of European hope, albeit tenuous. If this instrument is not the miracle solution, it has, at the very least, the merit of being an important step taken by our European partners. It is therefore up to us here to support it in the name of defending our companies, but also with a view to de-escalating and resuming dialogue. This important step must of course be taken in good intelligence with the other Member States but also with the Belgian federated entities, which are largely responsible for external trade. That is the meaning of one of our amendments voted in committee. The second amendment seeks to strengthen the conditionality of the text.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u115	I congratulate our colleague on his very first speech.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u116	Mr President, I would like to thank the groups and members of the committee for the constructive debate we have had and for the very broad support for this resolution and therefore for Belgium's participation in the instrument of INSTEX. I would remind you that this is a trade policy instrument that enables some of the agreements concluded with Iran to be implemented and that international trade can be resumed for a number of European companies in a number of sectors. We will continue the negotiations not only on the European side to organise INSTEX but also in partnership with Iran, which, for its part, must establish very clear governance rules in the logic of this mechanism. In addition to INSTEX there is another mechanism, a successor mechanism of the JCPoA itself. We ask Iran for a correct and loyal implementation of the JCPoA. In the absence of such sanctions, for example, sanctions can still be imposed, as in the past. INSTEX is an instrument for foreign trade policy, but we are also working at the heart of the matter, namely the nuclear agreements or the JCPoA, for which there is a specific mechanism. I have nothing against hearings with experts. These may take place as soon as possible. After that, a report can follow in Parliament. That was so agreed at the committee meeting. There is therefore now a mandate to proceed with the negotiations, but then there is an opportunity to come back with the presentation of the outcome of the negotiations.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u117	Is anyone still asking for the floor? Is anyone else asking for the floor? The discussion is closed. The meeting's over.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u118	The vote on the proposal will take place at a later stage. The vote on the proposal will take place later.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u119	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 September 2019, I propose that you proceed with the appointment of delegates to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 18 September 2019, I propose that Members be appointed to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. Pursuant to Rule 159 of the Rules of Procedure, such appointments shall be made on the basis of proportional representation of political groups. In accordance with the principle of proportional representation, the delegation shall consist of the following five effective members: Pursuant to Rule 159 of the Rules of Procedure, these appointments shall be made on the basis of the proportional representation of the political groups. Taking into account the proportional representation, the composition of the delegation shall be composed of five permanent members, as follows: N-VA: Peter De Roover Ecolo-Green: Jessica Soors PS: Malik Ben Accour Flemish Interest: Ellen Samyn MR: Denis Ducarme. Since the number of admissible candidates corresponds to the number of places to be allocated, there shall be no vote in accordance with rule 157, 6 of the Rules of Procedure. Since the number of admissible applications corresponds to the number of places to go, it is not necessary to vote in accordance with Rule 157 (6) of the Rules of Procedure. Accordingly, I declare the candidates nominated for the delegation to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly elected. Accordingly, I declare the candidates nominated for the delegation to the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u120	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 4 September 2019, I propose that you appoint the following members of special committees, delegations to international assemblies and advisory committees: In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 4 September 2019, I propose that the members of the following special committees, delegations to international meetings and advisory committees be appointed: Special Committees - Accounting Commission - Petitions Commission - Commission des Naturalisations - Committee on Rules of Procedure and Reform of Parliamentary Work. - Commission for the Control of Election Expenses and Political Party Accounting - Commission Military purchases and sales Special committees - Commission for the Compatibility - Committee on Petitions - Commission for Naturalizations - Rules of Procedure and Reform of Parliamentary Activities - Audit committee on electoral expenditure and accounting of political parties - Commission for the purchase and sale of military equipment. Delegations to international assemblies - Benelux Inter-Parliamentary Consultative Council - Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean - NATO Parliamentary Assembly Delegations to international meetings - Consultative Interparliamentary Benelux Council - Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean - NAVO-Parliamentary Assembly Opinion committees - Committee of Opinion on European Affairs - Opinion Committee on Social Empowerment - Advisory Committee on Science and Technology Adjudication committees - Advisory Committee on European Affairs - Advisory Committee on Social Emancipation - Advisory Committee on Scientific and Technological Questions No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. In accordance with Rule 158 of the Rules of Procedure, appointments of members of committees, delegations to international assemblies and advisory committees shall be made to the proportional representation of political groups. Pursuant to Rule 158 of the Rules of Procedure, appointments of members of committees, delegations to international meetings and advisory committees shall be made on the basis of the proportional representation of political groups. The group presidents sent me the names of their candidates. The chairmen of the political groups have informed me of the names of their candidates. Since the number of admissible candidates corresponds to the number of places to be allocated, there shall be no vote in accordance with Rule 157, No. 6 of the Rules of Procedure. Since the number of admissible applications corresponds to the number of places to go, in accordance with Article 157 of the Treaty, President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Accordingly, I declare the candidates nominated elected. The composition of special commissions, delegations to international assemblies and advisory committees will be published in the Annex to the Integral Account. I hereby declare the nominees elected. The composition of the special committees, delegations to international meetings and advisory committees will be published in the Annex to the Integrated Report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u121	By letter dated 18 July 2019, the President of the Constitutional Court states that, following the retirement of Mr Eric Derycke on 28 October 2019, a vacancy for a Dutch-speaking judge will be published in the Belgian Monitor on 1 August 2019. By letter dated 18 July 2019, the President of the Constitutional Court announced that a vacancy for the office of Dutch-speaking judge will be published in the Belgian Official Journal of 1 August 2019 as a result of the retirement of Mr Eric Derycke on 28 October 2019.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u122	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 4 September 2019, I propose that you publish a call for candidates to the Belgian Monitor and set a deadline of 30 days for the submission of applications. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 4 September 2019, I propose that you publish a call to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal and set the deadline for submitting applications on 30 days. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u123	Is anyone asking for the floor for a statement before the vote? Does anyone ask for an explanation of vote? [[No.]] Starting of the vote / Start of voting. Did everyone vote and check their voices? / Did everyone vote and check their vote? End of vote / End of voting. Result of the vote / Result of the vote. Yes 111 Yes No. [[18]] No Abstentions 1 Abstensions Total 130 Total Accordingly, the House adopted the motion for a resolution. This will be made known to the government. (395/3) Consequently, the Court adopts the motion for a resolution. It will be notified to the government. (395/3) Reason for abstention? [[No]] Reason for abstinence? [[No.]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u124	You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. The last distributed agenda contains a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. A supplementary list of proposals for consideration has been submitted to the Conference of Presidents. This list will also be included in the Annex to the Integral Return Account. The Conference of Presidents was informed of an additional list of proposals whose consideration was requested. This list will also be included in the Annex to the Integrated Report. If there are no comments on this subject, I shall consider it to be taken into account. I refer the proposals to the committees responsible in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. If there is no objection, I consider it accepted. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be forwarded to the committees responsible. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-09-19-55-plenair-ip005x.u125	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 26 September 2019. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, September 26, 2019. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 26 September 2019 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next sitting on Thursday, September 26, 2019 at 2:15 p.m.
