ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues. Today, in our committee, we are holding the second series of hearings on the issue of issuing humanitarian visas. During the course of the work, it was also asked that we should hear a representative of the High Commissioner for Refugees, but that said that we could not be present; we will try to give us a written opinion by the end of this week. That is good, because next week, when we have the political debate on this, we will be able to make use of it. Mr De Volder will first give his introduction and then show a movie.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the European Parliament, I would like to thank you for the invitation to speak on the Humanitarian Corridor project. First of all, I would like to apologize to my colleague Pieter Wieers, who has been killed by fever. Maybe he'll follow us through the screen. My speech is divided into two parts. I have written a detailed note on the first part, and I do not know if you have already received it. The first part deals with the way Humanitarian Corridor was created in our country, with the negotiations in 2017. The second part deals with its implementation in the course of 2018. Before I start, I'd like to give you two short premises. Firstly, I welcome the invitation, although I find it a bit unfortunate that this is happening in the context of a possible misuse of humanitarian visas. To be honest, I had hoped that I would be invited earlier to explain the project, because I think it is an original project, a good project, a project that deserves follow-up. I have spoken several times in the European Parliament to explain the model of Humanitarian Corridor. In any case, I am pleased to be able to do the same with you today. The second premise concerns the term Humanitarian Corridor. For me, it is specifically about the project that Sant'Egidio has carried out, along with all the recognized services in our country. In recent times, there has been some confusion about this term, especially in the press, but perhaps also here in the Chamber. In addition to the resettlement programmes, together with UNHCR, and the individual applications for humanitarian visas, there is the framework of what Mr Roosemont mentioned last week's rescue operations. In those rescue operations, Humanitarian Corridor is specifically the name of our project, which we launched and signed with an agreement on 22 November 2017. The text is now being distributed. I would like to avoid making an amalgamation of that name. I have the impression that since the famous Panoreportage it has become a bit of a generic name. It happens more often that self-names become generic names, but I would like to avoid that confusion. I can tell you all about the Humanitarian Corridor, from needle to thread. We set it up following a project started in Italy called Corridoi Umantari. That happened from 2015. In 2017, together with Protestant and Catholic partners, Sant'Egidio set up another such project with the French government called Couloirs Humanitarians. When we negotiated the same concept with the then Secretary of State in 2017, it was also called Humanitarian Corridor of Couloirs Humanitarians. This project is nevertheless characterised by a certain formalised mode of operandi within national and European regulations, with a strong focus on vulnerable refugees. The criterion is vulnerability. So it's not just about Christians. A third feature is that these are safe and legal pathways, as so often requested by humanitarian organisations.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u3	Mr President, I do not wish to interrupt Mr De Volder, but we have now received an agreement and not Mr De Volder's speech. If there is, will we get it? Then we can really follow. That makes it easier to work.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u4	They asked for the text to be circulated only after the presentation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u5	Fine.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u6	Another point is that it is also a project of private sponsorship. This means that it is financed by private partners here in Belgium. A fifth feature of Humanitarian Corridor is that there is a strong focus on accompaniment in integration in Europe. The Belgian project, which was formalized on 22 November 2017.I hope, Mrs Lanjri, that you have the text of that agreement.. is specifically about 150 vulnerable refugees, half of which come from Lebanon and half from Turkey. This project, and this is unique, has been developed in partnership with all the recognized services of Belgium: the Catholic Church, thus the Catholic bishops in cooperation with Caritas; all Christian churches, i.e. the Protestants, the Orthodox and the Anglicans; and also with the active support of Judaism and Islam in our country. This made our project unique, also in relation to what happened in France and Italy. The honorary services are united in the Together Committee in Peace, which I coordinate. That is actually the link between what the worship services do and what Sant'Egidio does. Just to show you that it's not just about facts and figures, but about people, I'd like to show you a little video. It won't take long, three minutes. It gives an impression of what we are actually talking about here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u7	I do not know how far I should go in detail, but I would like to explain how that agreement was reached in the course of 2017. It started with a letter on 23 January 2017. That letter can also be found on the website santegidio.be. That letter was signed by Cardinal De Kesel and by all those responsible for the recognized beliefs that are united in the Together Committee in Peace. The letter was addressed to the federal government, in particular to the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister and the State Secretary for Asylum and Migration. In that letter, they proposed that a humanitarian corridor should also be set up, in accordance with the Italian model, for 150 vulnerable refugees from Lebanon. From the outset, vulnerability was the main criterion, as well as possible links with Belgium. They pointed out in that letter the importance of prior screening and approval of the Lebanese and Belgian authorities and security services. Honorary services committed themselves to paying the cost of visas, crossing, reception during the asylum procedure and guidance to promote integration for a year. In that letter they mandated me as coordinator of Together in Peace to conduct the talks with the federal government on this matter. This letter received a written reply from the Prime Minister and there has also been an oral contact with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Both said that this was the responsibility of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. In the course of 2017 I had a number of discussions with the Secretary of State and/or with his cabinet about this project. So I didn't do that as a private person. People talk about intermediaries in the press. I had the mandate, not only from my organisation Sant'Egidio, but also from the various services of honour. There have been five talks to reach an agreement in the end. What are the points discussed? Let me briefly list them. If you're interested, I can elaborate on that. Firstly, the country of origin of the 150 refugees. The Secretary of State insisted that these were only Syrians, but with our project Humanitarian Corridor in Italy and France there are also refugees from Iraq or Palestinians stranded in Lebanon. The Secretary of State said that the benefit of Syrians was that they automatically received international protection in our country, which was not the case for the Iraqis, the Palestinians and others. We followed that reasoning and said that we would confine ourselves to people of Syrian nationality. A second point was the transit country. Where did these people come from? We had proposed Lebanon because we already have extensive operation, good ground knowledge and many contacts there with Sant'Egidio and our partners. I will say a little more about that later. The Secretary of State asked whether it was not possible for a group of Syrian Orthodox Christians to come from Turkey. The Belgian consul in Istanbul had been asked to send a group to Belgium. Why? Earlier, a large group of three hundred Syrian Orthodox Christians had gone to Australia, but there was still a remaining group and the question to the Belgian government was whether they could not come to Belgium. At first we were rather reluctant to do so for three reasons. As I said, we have more contacts and experience on the ground in Lebanon, where we have an extensive network. It was also clear to our project from the start that it should not only be about Christians, but also about vulnerable people, whatever their background. We do not want to just cooperate in the departure of Christians from the Middle East, because that is also a sensitive issue, without the consent of the local churches. The question was official, because it came from the Belgian Government, so we did not want to put it next to us. The question had been asked through the Consul to Foreign Affairs and had thus gone to the Secretary of State. We then consulted the authorities of that church, the Syrian Orthodox Patriarch and the Syrian Orthodox bishops in Istanbul and Brussels. Everyone agreed that something would happen for that group. Finally, a compromise was reached, in particular that about half of the 150 people were coming from Turkey and the other half from Lebanon. So that was a fitness-fifty distribution, which explains why there is a difference between the initial question, to get 150 people from Lebanon, and the final result. That was the second point, being the transit country. The third point discussed was about the candidates' religion. As in other operations, the Secretary of State expressed support for the proposal to allow Christians to appear. He had good arguments for this, such as the threat to minorities, the fact that there is greater support for the Belgian population and the fact that there is a great preponderance of Muslims in our asylum centres anyway. Sant'Egidio and Together did not want to go to Peace because not religious belongings but vulnerability had to be the main criterion. At the same time, however, we also admit that belonging to a minority in some periods and in some areas of Syria..................................................................................................................................................................................... That is right, and we have recorded it in that way. That was the third point. A fourth point concerned the definition of vulnerability. We have based ourselves on the 2013 Directive of the European Parliament and of the European Council on this point. Finally, in consultation with the Secretary of State, we defined vulnerability as, firstly, families with children, with a preference for full families. We did this because the Secretary of State wanted to avoid further migration through family reunification as much as possible. Secondly, the Secretary of State was also open to our explicit question to a limited but determined number of people with special medical problems or with disabilities, as well as older people, possibly with family in Belgium. It was about the elderly who were left behind over there. We went along with it during the talks. We have indeed committed ourselves to a mix, not only to people with serious medical problems, but also to families with children and some elderly people. One point was the role of Fedasil. It's a private sponsorship project. This means that the people who arrive are not taken care of by Fedasil, but by those different communities in our country, all over the territory, by the way. That was also a way not to unnecessarily increase Fedasil's supply of shelter. The only thing we have asked Fedasil, and the Secretary of State has gone along with that, is medical care. Of course, these costs cannot be paid for private persons. That was a big help. One question from us was that these 150 would not be counted within the number to which Belgium had committed itself under other international agreements. We did not want the 150 carried by the société civile to be counted. The Secretary of State has accepted that this number was on top of what Belgium would otherwise do. There was also a question from us for an official agreement that we would sign officially and publicly. That also happened on September 22nd. You've seen some footage of that just now. For the rest, we have limited mediatisation. Only the first arrival was announced to the press because it was just before Christmas and many people were in demand for it. But for the rest, also out of respect for the privacy of those involved, yet vulnerable people, we have all kept that out of the picture. So our intention was very explicit not to do something secret, but to do something public and official. This is how the protocol that you have in your hands was signed on 22 November 2017. That is the first point. I come to the second point. I want to go a little faster. I don't want to take up too much of your time. The second point is the implementation of that agreement. There it was mainly my colleague, Pieters Wieers, who is deacon in the diocese of Antwerp and is also associated with Sant'Egidio, who has made a very concrete effort to organise these crossings and also to identify the persons on the spot. Not only did he do this with the Sant'Egidio team on the scene in Lebanon. This team consists of people with a good knowledge of the Middle East, but also of European societies. We have ensured that our team on the ground did not actually work with Lebanese and Syrians. Why? That is a bit of a cautious procedure, a way to avoid prejudice and favoritism. There are two stages to the procedure. The first phase is the identification of the candidates and the second is the actual selection procedure. Even though the latter is an ugly word in this context, that is what it comes down to. We actually prefer the term identification. How does the longlist of candidates get to us? Well, candidates were and are still being alerted to us, firstly, through local partners in Lebanon, and secondly, by people or organisations in Belgium. In Lebanon, there are some major, well-known international organisations, such as the Red Cross, Unicef, Médecins Sans Frontières, Save The Children, Caritas Lebanon and also smaller local organisations, including various local Islamic and Christian aid organisations, listed in the distributed note. All these organisations, active on the ground, have a pretty good view of the many Syrians in Lebanon, in total about one million people in that small country. Because of the fact that our agreement was public, we also received a lot of questions here in Belgium, for example whether family members could happen. It's not thousands, but a few hundred questions, so more than we could do anyway. It is important to know that now I come to the second phase of the procedure, that of all those candidates several interviews were conducted, at least three for the candidates who were eligible. An interview will also be held in connection with the whereabouts of the person concerned. In particular, the profile of people's vulnerability is investigated. The criteria of vulnerability are set out in the agreement and we have applied them as far as possible. That is quite objective, as objective as possible, but choosing also means, of course, loss at a certain point, as is the case for all choices. Let me compare it with choices that political parties have to make for the electoral candidates. It also applies to UNHCR, for example, when it draws up resettlement programmes. I think we have worked with a great sense of justice. Anyway, it's not about people who know our employees. So it is not about family members of our local staff, and we do not know them in any other way. For us, the 150 people we have made are strangers, whom we have come to know through conversations and by examining their situation. That is what happened in Lebanon. In Turkey, of course, things have been a little different, because we had a shortlist there, because of the Belgian Government's proposal, through the Syrian Orthodox Church. We have also conducted interviews with these people to check whether they actually met our vulnerability criteria. There are also wealthy Syrians. Among the Christians there are certainly people with money. That's not our target group. Our target group is the vulnerable. Because we had less ground experience there, we had those talks with Caritas. We've sent teams from here to make those calls. There was also logistical support from the International Catholic Migration Commission (ICMC). The ICMC is an organization with good infrastructure in Istanbul, because it used to run the resolution programs for the United States, until the current president who stopped. So there is a structure. There are interpreters present. There's know-how. We were able to use them so that we were sure that the people who came in this way met our criteria. A number of people have lost weight. As a result, we in Turkey had the space to let other people and families happen, in which case non-Christians too. There has also been much talk in this debate about the role of UNHCR and the United Nations. With regard to the role of the United Nations, as part of our project, we are in contact with the representatives of UNHCR, particularly in Lebanon. But it should be noted that since 2015 – four years ago – the United Nations has been unable to register new Syrian refugees in Lebanon. This means that for their resettlement program, only Syrians who arrived before 2015 are eligible under this project while our program allowed to take people who arrived after 2015 – and there are many. The United Nations has even given us a few dossiers, hoping that we could bring them in as part of our project. All of this to say that there is really a complementarity between the humanitarian corridor and humanitarian visas from Belgium, Italy or France, and the work carried out by UNHCR. The project has been completed. The first group arrived on December 22, 2017 and the last group arrived on December 3, 2018; therefore, only two months ago. Of the 150 refugees, 49 were women, 62 were men and 39 were minors. Two thirds were Christians and about one third were Muslims. We cannot give exact figures, but we can make a deduction from the first names of the children. There were also Arabs, Kurds and Armenians. These 150 refugees were welcomed by all communities. Two thirds were welcomed by the Catholic Church, in parishes throughout the country, but also by the other recognized Churches as well as by the Muslim community and with the support of the Jewish community. So this is really a beautiful interreligious collaboration project to help these people. I would like to point out that all costs, all costs related to the asylum procedure, with the exception of medical expenses which have been covered by Fedasil, are borne by the various cults involved in this project. It is important to stress this. This also explains why we have limited ourselves to 150. This is a considerable financial commitment for these cults. The candidates therefore had nothing to pay for the passage, for the journey, for the visa, or for accommodation in Belgium. Of course, once they were recognized, found a job or received an allowance from the CPAS, we asked them for a financial contribution. The cooperation with Mr Franken's office was very good, as well as with the Belgian consulate on the spot, in Istanbul and Lebanon. We have here a representative of our embassy in Lebanon. I think we have done a very good job together. I'm grateful. Let me conclude. The will of Sant'Egidio and that of the recognised cults is to renew and extend this project, if the government is in favour, because we believe that humanitarian corridors are an excellent way to respond to the plight of refugees in a flexible and humane way. They provide security to vulnerable families or individuals who no longer have to put their lives at risk by relying on smugglers. The host countries, for their part, know in advance to whom they provide hospitality, which is an undeniable advantage. It is also a matter of reducing the burden on host countries such as Lebanon, Turkey and Ethiopia. I explained to you that for us, humanitarian corridors are complementary to what the United Nations is doing. Sant'Egidio has just received a kind of recognition from the UNHCR which marks its appreciation for the humanitarian corridors. I made a connection to the certificate of assessment. There's no competition. It's not or/or; it should be and/and. In addition, I believe that the model of private sponsorship, i.e. private sponsorship, is a means for different cults to assume important social responsibility, not only for cults but for civil society, and also to invite our leaders to show that there is support (draagvlak) in society to accommodate people, such as Canada. I hope that, as legislators, you will be able to make this possible. We, as the Community of Sant'Egidio, are endeavouring to ensure that this model is also adopted as a good practice by other countries of the European Union. We are in contact with several governments to adopt this model not only in the European Union but also outside. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u8	I call Mr Geleyn.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u9	Mr President, in the period between March and July 2015, the government, together with a group of citizens, evacuated 244 Christians from the besieged Aleppo to Belgium. With a second operation from September 2017 to February - March 2018, another 250 family members who were left behind could also be transferred. In a note that you received, I describe the why, the context, the origin and the completion of this operation. I would like to take up some important points from that note. First, the situation in Aleppo. In 2015, Aleppo Christians were in danger of death. Aleppo West was surrounded by al-Nosra, with Daesh 50 km further. There had already been killings in Maaloula, Qaraqosh and Hasakeh, and in the east the Yezidis were killed. In Syria, everyone was suffering, but Christians were victims of targeted persecution. That was the time when the Security Council was saying exactly what I just said. Importantly, like the Yezidis, Christians did not have militias. They could not flee to Turkey. The only exit road was a corridor that was usable during the day, in convoys, but not at night. I remember 8 July when we held our press conference with Messrs. Franken and Reynders to announce that the operation was over. Four days later, this road was closed, with the fall of Idlib. It is interesting to note that at the end of 2014 Belgium had decided to increase the resettlement programme through the United Nations from 75 to 250 refugees. Those 250 refugees would be chosen from the residences of the camps in Lebanon. The problem was that most Christians did not have access to these camps. Most of those camps, not all of them, are Sunni-Nominated entities. Even if the United Nations' selection criteria are optimal, they could only choose among the people who were in the camps. So that was de facto discrimination in relation to the UN quota. Our first contacts with Mr Francken and Mr Reynders date from March 2015. In the months before, there were many drownings in the Mediterranean. The NGOs insisted on legal access routes. Mr De Volder has already explained this. One of these legal access routes was the concept of humanitarian visas. In November 2014 there was a call from Refugee Work Flanders in that sense. In April 2015 was een edito van l'Association pour le droit des étrangers. April 2015 was exactly when we got the agreement to start our operation. I would just like to say that humanitarian visas were not conceived as a privilege at the time, but as a method of curbing human trafficking. The initiative itself came from a group of citizens of our kingdom from a variety of backgrounds. I could say: from various obedience, Flemings and French speakers. The group asked the government, through Secretary of State Francken and Minister Reynders, to receive a number of Christian families from Aleppo in our country, knowing that if not everyone could be saved, and the situation was precarious, some of them would still be saved. We had to explain at length, in detail, both to the Secretary of State Mr Franken and to the Minister Mr Reynders, the reason for this operation: why it was necessary for us; why it was urgent; how it could take place and how the group would be formed in Aleppo. There was no formal contract, but together with the firm, we wrote a detailed scenario. The government finally said yes. The Secretary of State said he was ready to evacuate 250 Christians to Belgium. His administration carried out this rescue operation with dedication and efficiency, together with Mr Reynders' office, my old house, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the embassy in Beirut. The role of the embassy was important. The 2015 rescue operation was difficult and dangerous. Many in Aleppo lived in fear, because only a small number could be taken. The composition of the group and the evacuation from the war zone were both of a great tragedy. The group consisted mainly of families with children, sometimes with grandparents, sometimes sick people; some could not afford a plane. Leaving had to be done in secret. You can imagine the tragedy of people living close to each other under siege and then having to leave in secret. The journey to Beirut went through war zone. At the border with Lebanon some border posts were closed, so we had to look for another border post. Sometimes customs had to be paid for. Sometimes it was the regime in Damascus that blocked. We had to stop our operation twice, because the danger was too great. Arrived in Beirut, the ambassador granted them a visa on behalf of Aliens and could fly to Belgium. Once arrived at Zaventem, the families were taken in and escorted to a temporary accommodation. It concerned the pilgrim rooms of Scherpenheuvel. That is why, in the working document that has been published, you can see the church of Scherpenheuvel. That's where we found a cheap place. After the accommodation in shelters, the volunteers helped. We had several volunteers who helped the 244 find a place to live, work and schools. Some were reimbursed for the flight ticket, others received some financial support when starting a new life. We had aid committees from Ostend to Eupen and from Brabant to Virton. The auxiliary committees consisted of parish priests, OCMW people and private volunteers. We also thank the people who have helped us financially, more for French speaking than on the Flemish side. The second operation took place in 2017 and had a different context. This was a context already described in a situation which Mr De Volder has just outlined. In 2017, the Secretary of State and the Minister of Foreign Affairs were prepared to transfer 250 family members left behind after the 2015 secret operation. This was a question of 'I did not use the word 'Vulnerable children' from families, grandparents, brothers and sisters. There were those who lived in ruins. In 2017, the siege had actually been levied, but the situation was still very bad. Many lived in ruins, but ruins, that's real estate. If families disappeared, there'd be a lot of creeps looking forward to that real estate. The situation was horrible. The government's gesture was in line with the exceptional nature of the first operation. Many contributed to the success of the operation in Syria, Lebanon and Belgium. Citing names, providing details would not be in the interest of the evacuees. Disclosed details could put them at risk. I'm talking about the danger of death. This is not Belgium. This is the Middle East. And that danger still exists now. I will also say this in Dutch: mentioning names or providing details about the operation is not in the interests of the evacuated and could endanger lives, even now. Our group thanks the government, particularly the former Secretary of State and the Minister of Foreign Affairs. They have assumed their responsibilities — political, ethical and humanitarian — by facilitating an exceptional visa process. We also express our gratitude to the Office of Foreigners for the processing of the files, so that 500 people have had their lives saved. The whole operation shows that citizens and the government can mutually support each other. Ministries, Cabinets, OCMWs, municipalities and dozens of volunteers in different provinces, from Ostend to Virton, have completed this operation. I would like to thank the many officials here. Officials are like wood: they work in silence. That is what we have established. In the case of refugees there was initially a great distress and depression, which, however, gradually replaced relief, gratitude and impatience to get to work. Some have told me that I have stayed with them and that their children have been laughing again for the first time in a long time. Others, it's about Christians from the Middle East.... dancing the divine providence that they had escaped the civil war..................................................................................................................................... It was fascinating to follow this change, but first they had to go through the shelters, which turned out to be a bitter experience for many Christians, because, in a sunni-edominated environment, they were faced with the same discrimination as in the Middle East, in Belgium. However, that humiliation was of short duration. Europe is right to stand up as a support for people's groups who are being persecuted. The world regularly reminds us of this ethical commitment. To the Christians in the Middle East, where the cradle of our civilisation and our faith lies, I believe that Europe has a special responsibility to protect them from persecution and genocide. Belgium was able to make a modest contribution with this aid action. This aid action attracted great interest from the Quai d'Orsay in Paris, Berlin and Rome, and was quickly followed by initiatives from those three countries. Many in our country were prepared to support this aid. That was a lovely experience.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u10	Mr Parmentier, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for allowing me to speak before you today. In recent weeks, some reports and articles have left doubt as to the exact role played by the Belgian Embassy in Lebanon in the process of issuing humanitarian visas. My intervention today seeks above all to recall that the staff of the Embassy have always worked in accordance with the procedures in force and only on instructions from the Office of Foreigners and the Office of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration. If I may, I would like to shed some light on a number of issues, first of all on the tasks of an embassy in the context of these procedures. The Belgian Embassy in Lebanon has two countries in its jurisdiction: Lebanon and Syria. We are competent to analyse and receive visa applications from Lebanese, Syrian and other citizens, provided that they are legally resident in one of these two countries. This has already been recalled many times, but it seems to me important to stress this again: access to the territory, residence, establishment and expulsion of foreigners in Belgium are exclusive competences of the Federal Internal Public Service and not of the FPS Foreign Affairs. This results in visa applications being sent to the Foreign Office by diplomatic and consular posts for decision. In certain cases, however, the authority to issue a visa is delegated to the Embassy. Statutory issuance is, however, impossible in all cases of long-term humanitarian cases. I heard that many people said that the majority of long-stay humanitarian visas had been issued ex officio by embassies. It seems to me that there is at least one abuse of language: one can issue ex officio only in other categories. Here, if it is true that the majority of humanitarian visas are issued – in two specific situations: resettlement operations and rescue operations or pure and hard discretionary visas – immediately to the embassy, without sending them to the Office of Foreigners, it is because we received the written instruction and the agreement of Brussels – from the Office of Foreigners and the Cabinet – to issue these visas. We cannot, of course, issue an initiative for a long-term humanitarian visa. It seemed important to me to remind him. I would like to add a few words about the embassy's role in the long-stay humanitarian visa procedure introduced by Mr Melikan Kucam. It is extremely clear, always applied in an identical manner and well known to all stakeholders. The details were recalled by Mr Roosemont at his hearing last week. When we receive a list from the Office of Foreigners, it is not accompanied by any information relating to its origin or the manner in which the names contained therein have been designated. The instruction given to us is to issue a long-stay humanitarian visa in a timely manner and in accordance with a minimum administrative procedure. After receiving this list, we plan an appointment and send a nominative invitation so that all those people - who are indeed Syrian nationals and who reside in Syria - can cross the border. The time slot "authorised" by the Lebanese authorities is relatively short, since they have 48 hours; hence the need for the embassy to issue the visa quickly. In principle, the group arrives at once at the embassy and in most cases is accompanied by a person who acts as coordinator. Applications are encoded for form - since agreement has already been reached - in our system. The only documents to be provided by the parties concerned are: - a long-stay visa application form, signed and completed; - proof of payment of the fee - which is an amount paid in Belgium from a Belgian account of the Office for Foreigners and is intended to cover administrative procedures; - a travel document - a passport, where possible. We had been authorized by the Agency to issue a pass when people were not in possession of a passport. No fees, commonly referred to as handling fee, were collected at the embassy, as these visas were encoded free of charge. Anyway, there was no money going through the embassy. Thirdly, perhaps a few words of explanation about Mr Kucam's visit to Beirut. I received an e-mail from a close colleague of Mr.Franken on 14 September 2018. This e-mail announced Mr Kucam's visit to Lebanon a few days later and asked me if we were willing to receive him. The e-mail clearly identified him as one of the firm's preferred contact points for humanitarian visas and also identified Mr. Kucam as the attendant for the group that was to report to us a few days later. Given that Mr Kucam is a Belgian national, that he is a local elected official and that he was clearly recommended by the cabinet, I obviously had no reason to refuse this interview. We received it a week later, on Friday, September 21, 2018, when a group of "humanitarian visas" came to the embassy. He was present with his son, who was not announced, but we also received his son on the spot. My collaborator in charge of visas for Belgian expatriates was also present. He thanked us very much, on many occasions, for what we were doing "for his people, the Christians of Syria". We have, of course, minimized these thanks, since the embassy's role in issuing these humanitarian visas is relatively passive, if I can say so.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u12	May I ask you a brief question for clarification? You say that you received an e-mail from the cabinet stating Melikan Kucam as a privileged contact. Is it common for you to receive such e-mails from the cabinet? Has it ever happened in the past that names of such privileged contacts were delivered to you?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u13	No, it's not a habit. This happened once. I actually met Mr. Kucam. In another context, that of the Sant'Egidio requests, I also met Mr Wieërs, who is not present today. It wasn't at the firm's request. They are the only two intermediaries or escorts I have met in Beirut in recent months. I would also like to anticipate certain questions in relation to a specific point: the distribution – if I may say so – of the passports carried out by Mr Kucam and which is visible in the report that has passed on one of the national channels. I would like to make one important point: I can understand that these images may raise questions, but I also want to say that the identity of the people is obviously verified in the morning, when they come to the embassy. Each person comes individually to the counter. We check his identity and the match between the photo on the travel documents, the passport and the person we have in front of us at the counter. We also take biometrics. The fingerprints of each person to whom a humanitarian visa is issued are recorded. Despite the many emails exchanged in these procedures to prepare for the arrival of these groups between the Embassy, the Cabinet and the Office of Foreigners, it is unfortunately common that people are not always, during their visit to the Embassy, under the conditions to obtain this visa. I'll explain. Often they did not have the application form or lacked proof of payment of the fee. So, the fact that we have an attendant there who can act as an intermediary between the embassy staff and the group is, in my opinion, a real plus-value. This really makes our work easier. So it wasn't something unusual either, even though, again I point out, I haven't met them every time. Having an escort was something common for all the groups who came to the embassy. In the afternoon, once all the files were encoded and the visas were ready, it is true that we usually hand over the passports to the attendant, first and foremost for practical reasons. The embassy is located in a building on the tenth floor. You have to access it by an elevator. There are security procedures. It therefore seemed easier, since the attendant was clearly identified and duly mandated, to hand over the passports to that person. Another important point is that after each series of humanitarian visas issued by the embassy, an e-mail was systematically sent to several recipients. These were the offices of the Secretary of State, the Foreign Affairs, the Foreign Office, the Border Control in Zaventem and the Central Office for the Suppression of False Documents. The e-mail included the names, first names, dates of birth of the persons to whom a visa had been issued and the number of the secure visa sticker. I mean that even if an abuse had taken place somewhere, or that passport had arrived, in one way or another, in the hands of someone else, upon arrival in Zaventem, it would have been very easy to make sure that the person carrying the visa was the person who was supposed to receive it. There are no rules in the Visa Code, the Code Manual or the Vade Mecum published by the Office of Foreigners that prevent the handing over of the passport with a visa to a person other than the applicant. However, the practice is that the passport is usually handed over to the applicant or his duly authorized representative in his own hands. In this case, in my view, there was absolutely nothing reprehensible, on the basis that the passports had been handed over to someone who had been introduced by the firm as a person of trust, a local elected person in addition. This person was actually designated to assist applicants in their efforts. It is true that the person concerned should probably have handed over the passports in a more discreet manner. But from the moment the passports left the embassy, we can no longer blame the embassy and we no longer have a vision of what is happening at the bottom of the building. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you and I, like my colleagues, stand ready to answer your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u14	All the groups will now have the floor, in the usual order. I'll start with the N-VA.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u15	Thank you for your comments, Mr De Volder, Mr Geleyn, Mr Parmentier. Last week there was some commotion because I did not say this explicitly, but I would stress that it is disgusting and unacceptable to find that someone, in particular Mr Melikan Kucam, who is now a suspect, has enriched himself on the hood of all those vulnerable Syrian refugees, who have been rescued by you and the government, with the help of, among others, the Saint-Egidius community. Everyone in this committee, including my N-VA group, believes that this person should be prosecuted and punished. I think I corrected that later, Mr De Vriendt, but I would like to stress that again for all serenity. I do not have to judge, I am not the judge, but in that case I think that person has committed a perverse form of trafficking in human beings. I hope, therefore, that he will receive the appropriate sanction. I found the statements made by the three speakers very clear and clear. In this way we gain insight into the procedure, the way in which we work, the humanitarian corridor in practice and the situation of Christians in Aleppo and Eastern Syria. These things have come out very clearly. Mr Geeyn, I have heard you say that there was no other way to save Christians and that there was no way for Christians to get into the camps outside Syria. You called it a Sunni-inspired environment. In fact, you said that Syrian Christians could not be saved from Syria in any other way. They did not cross the border to Lebanon or Turkey. Can you confirm that UNHCR was not present in Syria and Aleppo, which prevented Christians from fleeing on their own and in a safe manner? Last week I asked the people who were invited to the hearing the following question: those of Unia and Mr Roosemont and Mr Van den Bulck. It may be a little too political, but I do not want to provoke you to speak politically. I just want confirmation that this procedure, this humanitarian corridor, was really necessary and that the operation through UNHCR alone would not have been sufficient. After all, many people are calling for no longer to work with humanitarian visas and the humanitarian corridor, but only with resolution via UNHCR. I dare to ask a few questions because I think it will no longer be possible to give people from Syria a humanitarian visa, precisely because the UN is not there and because the selection itself already involved a form of discrimination because a kind of pre-selection has taken place in which Christians fell out of the boat. Mr Geleyn has also made that clear. UNHCR does, fortunately, no selection based on religion. You have all spoken very clearly about the vulnerability criterion and you have defined it well. That is clear, which might indirectly make religion one of the criteria because Christians are a minority. Religion was not a criterion in itself. UNHCR does not, but the UN refugee camps are largely populated by Islamic Syrians. If we restrict the procedure and do not allow that humanitarian corridor to continue through a procedure other than resolution, then we run the risk that no Christian can be saved in the future. I have one more question. Can it be avoided that in a selection by UNHCR or, as you have described, in Jordan, Lebanon and Syria, bribery or extortion of candidates takes place? And how can this be avoided? In view of the fact that there are many more candidates for resettlement in these refugee camps, I would ask you to transfer them through the corridor than there are places. I can imagine that such a selection is a matter of life or death, that people who are in a life-threatening situation are willing to give anything and are therefore a bird for the cat when they fall into the hands of people who are not in good faith. The initial design of these committee meetings was that we want to see the procedures and that we want transparency. We want to see how in future we can avoid possible extortion and possible personal enrichment in what is a very noble procedure. Thank you for your explanation. I thought it was very clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your presence and your presentations. Before I ask my questions, it seems to me important to remind, as was said last week to the speakers who stood in your place, that we are not here to replace justice. What we want is to understand how we have come to this serious and shocking situation where so-called intermediaries have been able to make money on the backs of people in distress, fleeing war, misery or persecution. Mr De Volder, I read your note well and thank you for sending it to us early this morning. To fully understand the situation and your role, do you confirm that you have contacted the government, specifically the Prime Minister? The latter then, in writing, appointed the Secretary of State to be your main interlocutor. On the other hand, as I went through your note, I was also able to read that you, together with the Secretary of State, had drawn up specific criteria in order to select people who could be granted a humanitarian visa. The Secretary of State was in favour of bringing Christians, but you did not want to follow him in this reasoning. I also have a question about your vulnerability criteria. CGRA and Fedasil have never commented on your criteria. It's something you've determined between you. Is that it? In addition, you say that you have been able to reach an agreement on the distribution of refugees to be saved: 75 from Lebanon and 75 from Turkey. For the list of Orthodox Christians for Turkey, do you know how the Secretary of State was able to obtain the names on this list? Did all those who had benefited from these humanitarian visas come from camps? Mr. Parmentier, much has been said about the absence of the Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees in the territories affected by the rescue operations. In practice, how could contact be made with groups in Syria? In your opinion, were the humanitarian visas you issued to intermediaries intended for persons in Syria or in refugee camps outside Syrian territory? Mr Geleyn, I would have wanted to know how the evacuees from Aleppo were identified. Of course, I am not questioning all the work done to save these people. I just want to know how these people were chosen, how the names were passed on to you. I would also like to know whether you have been through intermediaries.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u17	Mr. Chairman, I also thank the three speakers for the complementary lighting that has been given to us, which allows us to better understand the situations, the mechanisms, the initiatives that have been taken upstream of the actions of the person who is currently in detention with his son, if I am not mistaken. Since the presentations were very clear and comprehensive, I have few questions to ask at this stage. I would just like to ask the representative of Sant'Egidio a few questions. We were distributed the convention on this operation, which ended, as you said, just a few weeks ago. From what has been explained to us so far, all that related to resettlement was the exclusive competence of UNHCR. However, it is indicated in the convention – and this raises my astonishment – that you are acting in parallel with that agency; as you have said here on several occasions. In those circumstances, the minimum was to request information from UNHCR. Who asked for this information? Was it you? Was it the firm? Or Foreign Affairs? What was the nature of the information requested on the candidates whose lists were provided in Lebanon and Turkey? Have this information been obtained? I would also like to say a word about screening. Indeed, it is quite laconically stated in the convention that "after screening and approval of the files, the federal public services will issue a visa". Who was in charge of this screening? Wasn't it you? I imagine it was going on at the firm or the Foreign Office? I'd like to know who was competent for screening. To hear you, it had the advantage that we knew we were going to deal with. But to what extent did we know who we were going to deal with? Was this information extremely general, very neutral, or was it very specific about people, their families, their background, their background, etc.- Is that what you're saying? I would like to have a word of explanation on this. One more question. It is stated in the convention that you continue the accompaniment until the issue of international protection. For some, this must have happened a long time ago. For others, the process has just begun. Do you already have a look at the number of protections that have been given, those that may not have been given or would have been refused for some reason? I would like to have some details on what is next, what is not seen and which is administrative in the journey of all these people, once they have crossed the Belgian border.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the gentlemen present for their explanations and their presence. Gentlemen, I'd like to sit down and say that you're not here to answer for yourself. We specifically asked you to put your story against the other story. I am talking about the rescue operations in question, which have been carried out with a certain structure and with screenings. We want to place these operations in opposition to the way in which Mr Kucam has used them as an intermediary, which we know is not the normal way of doing things. That's why we invited you. After all, let it be clear. No one here in the Chamber disputes the importance of rescue operations, and not just the wider rescue operations carried out with the help of UNHCR, for which we have been given some explanation last week and which we also know. We have always argued here in Parliament for a further extension of the resolution. We know, on the other hand, that settlement often takes place only from neighbouring countries and no longer in conflict zones. As Mr Geleyn has said, sometimes it is necessary to go into the war zone itself in order to save people. We also support those rescue operations. It's good that they happened. For us, they must be able to happen in the future. For this purpose, the use of a humanitarian visa is an excellent tool. We know that the law has left a great deal of room, which does not mean that we can work in a structured way in all openness and transparency, just as we have done in the rescue operations of which we now have two examples. There have been such surgeries and there will be others. It is also good to show the good examples and to note here that these rescue operations are being carried out in cooperation with various NGOs. You mentioned the Red Cross and other NGOs on the ground. There have been screenings for vulnerability. We have seen its definitions. Several interviews were conducted, with an effective search for the vulnerable in both cases. When there are so many people in need of protection or refugees, the extra vulnerable are looked at effectively. That was also demonstrated in the rescue operations you did. Sometimes there's another difference between the two rescue operations. One is a private sponsorship, in which the faith communities have borne the costs of the plane, the visa and even the reception costs. This is somewhat similar to the model used in Canada, where there is also private sponsorship to accommodate refugees. Sant'Egidio is a first form of such a private sponsorship, yet for the first year. During that year a lot has already been arranged. The first rescue operation we launched with our country was not with private sponsorship, but it doesn't have to be. I don't think this should always be done with private sponsorship. This is a good initiative, because it increases acceptance, involves more people, but I do not think it is a problem at all that the government sometimes also takes care of the costs of reception. That is why we have invited you to speak openly about what has happened. We are all shocked that there were intermediaries who did not work with organisations or screenings and who even paid people to get on the list. I read in the newspaper today that Kucam's lawyer says there were a lot of applications, up to four banana boxes full. It selected a hundred names, together with the representatives of the Syrian Church. If one is aware that this selection may be under investigation, but on the basis of what has been paid, there is a problem. Again, we are not questioning the rescue operations; it is very good that this is happening, we will see what we can improve. I also take Mr Geelyn's remarks on reception very much to heart. Once the people are here, this could be traumatic. I think we should review the reception of all refugees and make sure that this goes well. Another point. The Ambassador said that we are doing the work that we have to do, and that is to deliver documents, to ensure that the administration costs are paid, to provide travel documents and visas, possibly to give a laissez-passer, but we do not carry out any substantive screening at any time. You have said that you will be asked by DVZ or the cabinet, but it is not up to your services to screen the substance of the matter as to whether they are vulnerable people. That was never your job. You didn't do that here either. For some of the visas you have issued, the screening has taken place, especially in the rescue operations, but for another part, for the Kucam lists, that screening has never been there. You didn't do that because that's not your job. I also recall from your statement that it is not customary for you to receive directly a question from the cabinet to receive a particular person, Kucam. In this case, you received an e-mail from Theo Francken's cabinet on 14 September. You replied that this is not common practice and that it was the first time you received such a question. It's not unusual to receive people. If people are asking to be in touch with the embassy, of course they can. If people from the Red Cross or NGOs ask to speak to you, I also think that this should be possible. However, it is not customary to designate a person with whom to cooperate. That's weird, isn't it? My next question is actually one for Mr Geleyn and Mr De Volder. I assume that everyone who came to Belgium through the rescue operations has followed the normal procedure and has therefore applied for asylum. In the meantime, they are either recognised as refugees or have been granted a status of subsidiary protection. We do not know of the group of individual cases via Kucam whether the persons concerned subsequently applied for asylum. These people get a long-stay visa and with such a long-stay visa one might as well stay in Belgium without applying for asylum. That's where the risk is even greater. The pre-selection did not work with NGOs, which could have screened the vulnerability element in different interviews. If these people have then come to Belgium and they have not subsequently applied to the Commissioner-General for Refugees and the Stateless, then it may be that Belgium has given the persons concerned a residence permit which they do not deserve at all. With such a long-stay visa, they have the opportunity to stay in the country. The Minister may indeed decide, on the basis of Articles 9, 13 and 25, to grant a residence permit to persons entering through a short or long-stay visa, even if they have not passed through the Commissioner. Last week I asked Dirk Van den Bulck that question. He could not tell me who applied because he simply does not have the list of people who have received a humanitarian visa. If he gets a list of people who received a humanitarian visa, he can add it to the database and check who at least has made an attempt to apply for asylum. It remains to be seen whether all these people have effectively applied for asylum. After all, it is perfectly possible that some people have not bothered to apply for asylum or that some have deliberately not applied for asylum because they know that they are at risk of not getting protection. I'm still waiting for an answer. Mr Ambassador, you did the substantive screening. In that context, perhaps you can clarify the origins of those people. Which region did the people you gave a visa to come from? Were they all in Lebanon, or were they still involved in Syria? In general, I would like to reiterate that we are in favour of saving people from pressing situations, so we support rescue operations. There may be rescue operations in the future. That is why I would like to hear from you what can be improved on the current system. The system is developing gradually. Not all operations are carried out in a similar way. I think you can all see what went well and what could be done better. In addition, we must also consider the costs that the public authorities may or may not have to bear. Taking people in a decent way, once they are in our country, is of course also of interest to me, like Mr Geeyn, but I would like to open up some things. I believe that we should do that for every refugee. After all, a refugee who does not come to Belgium through a rescue operation has also suffered trauma. For such people too, it can be very traumatic to be confronted with problems once again, for example discrimination against ethnic groups. In shelters we see that conflicts are sometimes still being fought out. We must, of course, avoid such situations at all times.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of our group, too, I would like to thank the speakers for coming to Parliament to explain some of the procedure they have followed. We will have a chance to go into it later, but I would like to thank Mrs Smeyers for confirming that the practices exposed by Pano are distasteful and degout, if they prove to be true. I don't think there are any other words for that. It's a bit of a pity that her chairman mentioned it a few weeks ago as a side issue if it was paid for, but okay. Like Mrs Lanjri, I have understood, among the speakers, how valuable the system is to them and how important it is to maintain it in the future. I do not think that Parliament has any intention at all of amending or abolishing that valuable system. We are here at the hearings mainly to prevent and rule out abuse in the future. Mr De Volder, you have explained quite in detail the agreement concluded with Mr Francken's cabinet in November 2017. You yourself expressly confirmed that the cabinet was asking for only Christians to be received, but you did not answer that question. So you didn't just bring religious minorities here. Can you put a number on that? You say 75 from Lebanon and 75 from Turkey, but can you also tell how many Christians were transferred in that 150-year operation? You point out that the main criterion is mainly vulnerability. I agree with my colleague from the MR: the question is what data you need to define the concept of 'vulnerability' sufficiently. You say that it is quite objective, but that it has to be chosen. Can you tell me in more detail what the exact intake conversations or data that people had to deliver in an interview were to be considered vulnerable? I think that Mr De Vriendt has already asked this question in the past. If you say that you are taking people from the two neighbouring countries Lebanon and Turkey, who are no longer in Syria, then how do you explain the concept of vulnerability? Can you give me your personal opinion? The fact that they are no longer staying in Syria at that time, does that sufficiently support the concept of vulnerability? Isn't that a different situation than the one for whom the rescue operation brought in from Aleppo in 2015? You also say that you had an agreement with the Francken cabinet and brought 150 people here in 2017. Were you planning to do another follow-up on that? Did you have meetings with the Cabinet to bring a second wave of people here via Sant'Egidio? Or was the deal just a one-time deal? Can you explain the timetable for this? I also have a specific question. Maybe you've already answered it. You say that your people made the selection and sent the list to the cabinet. Did the cabinet still have to be motivated individually? Was there any additional information to be provided? Was the list changed afterwards? Or did they just take the list you sent to grant humanitarian visas? Thirdly, what control mechanisms did you yourself maintain in your organisation to ensure that there was no abuse possible? Did you yourself, at some point, find that there was any abuse, or do you say that you did not experience any such abuse during the time you performed that operation? Mr Geeyn, I also have a question about your previous statements. Can you explain your criticism of cooperation with the United Nations? Can you elaborate more on why you don't think that's the best way to work?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u20	I, for my part, would like to thank you for your explanation. We do not ask you to do an input that is purely for control. We have just received very little information in the past, despite the fact that I and many colleagues have asked many questions in committee. Why do we want this information? We want to think with a group of people in the committee about humanitarian visas and more humanitarian solutions for refugees in order to obtain a humanitarian visa so that they do not have to come across mountains and sea in very dangerous situations. We would very much like to see with the Secretary of State if there are any other ways. As a result of the transfer of Christians from Syria in particular, I hear that they were not only Christians, we have already asked questions about this. One of the objectives of the hearings is to look at how we can do preparatory work to introduce private sponsored operations here, as in Australia and Canada. We have then proposed a number of things, following the discussion about the Walloon family who wanted to transfer a number of acquaintances here. This was the subject of a very public debate. I have some questions. I notice that some kind of declaration of intent has been signed on the method of cooperation. Mr De Volder delivered it to us. Firstly, I notice that it is all worship and representatives of worship who have signed it. I know that in the past, you've been in touch with people with different beliefs. I don't see any associations here that have anything to do with freedom or atheism. I would like a little more explanation on that. Were they contacted? Were they interested? Secondly, this declaration of intent is actually a good practice, a contract or an agreement on the rules of the game. I am particularly interested in who took the initiative to draw them up. How long have you been working on it? Who wrote to it? How has this been negotiated? It was signed on 22 November 2017. I believe that on 22 December, a month later, 150 people were transferred. That means 150 people have been identified in a month. First we have a longlist and then we look at the specific situation of these people. You've done that in a month, along with other organizations. Maybe you're working very efficiently, but was that I.D. already in the process while you were still negotiating that letter of intent? That is, of course, also possible. For the record, I have nothing against this declaration of intent, and I believe that it is actually a very good instrument for establishing agreements. There's something I'm a little surprised about. If I were Secretary of State and I see a declaration of intent with one organisation, and afterwards I work with seven organisations, I would have a natural reflex to make a similar agreement note on a number of aspects with those other organisations. Apparently that didn't happen, despite the fact that the porridge was ready to spoon in, so to speak. I have a second question, which has already been asked more or less. You say it wasn't just about Christians. I suspect that some Muslims, Protestants or other believers have probably also been brought to Belgium. Can you tell me how many there were? The Memorandum of Understanding states that information is to be obtained from UNHCR and the Turkish Migration Department. What information is that and how does it actually work? For the record, I do not know whether or not you can say that, but I would like to see that. Do you have any idea how many of the people who received a humanitarian visa through you subsequently applied for protection and how many of those people received that status? I thought that would apply to everyone, but perhaps you'd like to repeat that. How did the assistance for the asylum application take place? Did you mentor the people there for a piece? If an asylum application was submitted, would it be given a certain status, because it was an asylum application from people who came to Belgium via the air bridge? You work with private sponsorship. To what extent did the private partners cooperate to integrate people and above all to ensure that they could apply for asylum? I don't know if and who can say anything about the following. I am therefore addressing my question to all the speakers. The Ambassador made it clear that Mr Kucam had been designated as a group supervisor. He also handed out those visas. After the ambassador had seen everyone individually and processed the files, he gave the tour guide the visas he handed out. That's how it happened to speed things up. Do any of you know who accompanied these people in Belgium after that? Was that through private sponsorship, too? How was that organized and paid for? Have they all applied for asylum? Last week I asked DVZ for that, but apparently they were still putting that in the picture with the different partners. Mr. Honorary Ambassador Geleyn, there is the situation in Aleppo in 2015 and there is the situation in Syria in 2018. Would you like to do an operation like this again today? Is it still as necessary as in 2015? In your speech and text, you thank many people for their cooperation. A group of Christians was brought here very favourably with a number of partners. Do you think that in some way an instrument should be developed to follow some kind of procedure or framework in very precarious situations in the future? There have been sudden events where it is said that the Minister's power to decide alone must continue to exist, but here I think it went a little further. Can you, from your experience, indicate how to organise this best and most honestly? How can we ensure that the most vulnerable can come here and not always the people with the most financial resources? I would add, for the sake of clarity, that those who are very rich may also be in a vulnerable position. Mr Parmentier, these were large groups of people. There was a tour guide. Haven't you ever heard of payments? Did they give money because it wasn't fast enough? Something wrong? Some people couldn't come? If I understood correctly, there was a connection between the first and second operation, in the sense that people wanted to transfer, especially relatives, who had stayed with the real estate in Syria to protect it. Have you heard any rumors or comments that might indicate paying for or buying visas to get to Belgium?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u21	I would like to thank the three speakers for their explanatory statement, which was very useful and enlightening. Colleagues, we all know that there are a lot of refugees in the world. If our country wants to make an effort to save refugees, we must have as many guarantees or assurances as possible that it is indeed the most vulnerable. That must be the starting point.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u22	We know from current events that a system has been set up by the Francken cabinet which has really given rise to abuse and fraud. Humanitarian visas were sold for big money. Of course, that can never be the intention. We think it would be better to work with clear procedures and recognised organisations so that a framework can be established for what is called humanitarian rescue operations. We have heard the three speakers. In the meantime, we know what happened to the intermediary Melikan Kucam. It is immediately apparent that one method offers much more guarantees or certainty than the other. Procedures were followed in the rescue operations initiated by Sant.Egidio and other partners. Those operations were framed. We then had a rescue operation in 2015, led by Mr Geeyn and others, which is already much less clear and which is still missing today. Then there was also the procedure of Kucam, annex Theo Francken, which has really been completely wiped out and which has even led to fraud and with much less clarity than with the other two rescue operations. Mr Consul, I would like to go further on this last point. The most important thing we have heard here today is that the cabinet decided to cooperate with someone like Melikan Kucam, without any other partner in the government knowing about it. That name was completely unknown. Apparently they went further, because there was a clear instruction and question from the Francken cabinet, from a member of the cabinet, as you said, Mr Consul, to treat Melikan Kucam as a privileged contact person with whom the Consulate General had to cooperate. The Consulate-General clearly did not ask any questions. The instruction came directly from the government, from the cabinet. Then we'll see the videos on Facebook, I suppose you've seen them too, Mr Consul, where the privileged cabinet liaison was handing out documents in the streets of Beirut. That wasn't in Aleppo. It is not Melikan Kucam who rescued people from Syria from the claws of IS. No, they were already hit on their own in Lebanon. This is important for the story, when we talk about combating human trafficking. Those people got into Beirut and there they came into contact with the privileged contact person who received a release from the cabinet and was handing out documents. Mr. Consul, what did you think of the video? How did you react to that? You said that it was obvious that certain groups sometimes worked with intermediaries. Do you know of any other cases where those contacts were handing out documents on the street? Following the video on Facebook, I wanted to ask you if Melikan Kucam was in Beirut with a mandate and if you knew that, but in the meantime we know the answer. He was there with a mandate from the Francken cabinet. Remarkably in what you just said, there was no justification on the list that you received from the Foreign Office, so the list of names that had to be given a humanitarian visa as soon as possible, and it is completely unclear to you how that selection happened. Perhaps it would be useful for you to confirm this. You have received a list without justification, without checking for vulnerability, without much explanation or information. Together with that list, you have also been instructed to issue a humanitarian visa to that group of people very quickly via an accelerated procedure, with minimum administrative burden, whatever you have done. The mail from the Francken cabinet to the consulate dates from 14 September 2018. Melikan Kucam and his son appeared in Beirut. You have said that it is very unusual to receive an e-mail from the cabinet in this way. Can we get a copy of that e-mail? That would help us assess it. After 14 September 2018, did you have any contact with Melikan Kucam, with the cabinet? Has that name come up in any way? Could you give us some more information? Have you yourself heard rumors of possible abuse or fraud? Working with privileged intermediaries or contacts is one thing. This is particularly unusual and opens the door to abuse, but did you actually hear rumours in September and December, which, by the way, also reached the Secretary of State? My earlier question to you remains pertinent. Is it customary for documents to be distributed on the streets, whereby Melikan Kucam hands out documents as some kind of savage benefactor, but unfortunately for money, with the support of the cabinet? Mr De Volder, we immediately see that Saint-Egidius's working methods differ in a very important way from those used by the Francken cabinet, with an intermediary such as Melikan Kucam. I understand there was an agreement. There is a text, a working method, an agreement, a certain procedure, a certain protocol, which is in fact necessary in such rescue operations. In this context, too, we must note to the attention of the former Secretary of State that you have not rescued people from the claws of IS. I'll give you that because of the fake news that's kind of blissful on Twitter, distributed by our former Secretary of State. These were clearly people who have already been affected in Lebanon or in Turkey. We have not heard from you how they have gotten to Lebanon or Turkey, but you may not have a complete view of that either. I believe that the Sant'Egidio operation area is still not Syria and was certainly limited at the time to Lebanon and Turkey, the transit countries. Perhaps some people have already been smuggled from Syria to Lebanon and Turkey. Now I come to the check of vulnerability, the starting point in the rescue operations. How did it happen? You explained quite in detail that you did not cooperate with Lebanese or Syrians. You are referring to a longlist created in cooperation with UNICEF and the Red Cross, important international organisations that can indeed play a role in collective humanitarian visa rescue operations. It is important to underline the latter. In the beginning, in my opinion, you have made a too tight distinction between resettlement with, for example, the United Nations and humanitarian corridors with organisations such as Sant'Egidio, which are of course doing a good job, but I think we should be able to combine the best of both worlds. As in the case of resettlement, the UN agencies can play a certain role in collective rescue operations through humanitarian visas. So I was pleased to hear that organisations such as UNICEF and the Red Cross played a role in this. You said that there was also cooperation with several smaller local aid organisations, which you did not go into in detail. In that case, however, we may be talking about Lebanese people or the Turkish connection, which the former Secretary of State had to focus specifically on Assyrian Christians. Maybe it'll get a little harder. You explain that questions were also asked from Belgium to get family members to Belgium via the humanitarian corridor from Lebanon. After that, interviews were done by you and a selection was made. Has there been any intervention by DVZ or a check on vulnerability by another official body at any given time in the procedure? In Turkey, you have dealt with it differently, as we have learned, at the request of the Secretary of State. Unlike you, he clearly advanced the religion criterion. He asked or said that he wanted a certain group of Assyrian Christians from Turkey to be flown to our country via a corridor of humanitarian visas. With our group, we are opposed to the religion criterion. I am very clear on that. The criterion must be vulnerability, somewhat in line with the approach you have taken to your rescue operations. Of course, that is also about Christians. Christians as a religious minority may also be a particularly vulnerable group. It is not fair, however, that the former Secretary of State has apparently told you that he was prepared to take part in your initiative, provided that a rescue operation for a number of Assyrian Christians would also be undertaken from Turkey, although Turkey is not a war zone and the people concerned were already affected in Turkey. However, it does not seem fair to me that an operation is being carried out specifically on this religion and does not seem to me to justify it. Mr Geeyn, the matter is even more unclear with you. It was, I understand, a 2015 rescue operation of only Christians. You've initiated the operation with a certain frame-up. There was a government decision, in which there was a discussion within the government about the operation. At that time, in 2015, the operation was to a certain extent framed. Nevertheless, you have brought people from Aleppo here. It's the third time I've pointed this out, but it wasn't about saving people from the claws of IS. As you yourself rightly pointed out, ISIS was not near Aleppo at the time. It was mostly Al-Nusra. I should like to add this because of the flou artistique, which is sometimes created very consciously and which is actually wrong in that dossier. Is this about people who are vulnerable? They're in Aleppo, so the answer is yes. However, how did the selection take place? There are many vulnerable people in Aleppo. Who was brought here from Aleppo? We know it's Christians. However, which Christians are involved? Who had priority? I do not want to make any comments on this, for the sake of clarity, but we do not have any criteria to test it. As Members of Parliament, we must have such criteria. If the government is to launch such a rescue operation, together with a private partnership, then we must be able to know if this is going to be done according to correct criteria. You are right to say that you cannot give names or too many details because this may still endanger the people of Syria. At that point, you are actually saying: have faith, people's representatives. That is, of course, a bit much to ask, and you will understand that, especially in view of the current situation, a flagrant case of abuse. I find it difficult there, although this was about a government decision, framed. In the case of Melikan Kucam this was not even the case. Mr Geeyn, to what extent has DVZ somehow played a role in the whole procedure?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u23	Mr President, I too would like to thank our guests today for the explanations and clarifications on how they work. I should like to add my word to that of my colleagues and those who have said that it is not a question of justification but of enlightening us on how this is all going. I would also like to apologize in advance because unfortunately I will not have time to hear all the answers, but my colleague will be there to do so. Regardless of my will, I have to leave the meeting earlier than I expected. To go back to the presentation by the representative of Sant'Egidio, I find that this is an almost perfect model of how these rescue operations can take place. I've noticed almost 20 fundamental differences between how you operated and how Francken worked with Melikan Kucam. It is quite impressive to see how radically different these operations are. It's day and night. You quoted them. I will take up some of these elements. You and your Sant'Egidio organization had a clear mandate for your organization. It's a professional organization. You had a mandate from the recognized religious representative. You had contacts with different members of the government, regardless of the party. You didn't act with private intermediaries. You acted for the benefit of people who were already refugees. You have worked with local partners who are professional partners or in any case you could rely on and who you certainly knew well, such as the Community of Sant'Egidio in Lebanon. You have established a formal agreement. You cooperated with UNHCR. You have worked on the basis of clear criteria for vulnerable people. You did not want to contribute to the departure of Christians from the Middle East without the agreement of their local community. This is an important element on which I will return. You obviously didn't ask for a fee. They have been taken over by your organization or by private sponsors. Recipients were obviously not subject to extortion of funds or even requests for payment. You took care of these people. You have also taken care - this is an important point - of their integration into Belgian society. You have exercised a form of private partnership. All this was public and not secret. You didn't engage in any clientelism. This list is quite impressive because it shows how not at all one is in the same type of operation as that carried out by Mr. Melikan Kucam. I think it deserved to be raised. It is probably a model that will have to be followed in the future. It would be interesting - and here I am speaking to Sant'Egidio - to see what your international contacts are to see how much your model could inspire other rescue operations. I also stress that the criterion of vulnerability was paramount, even if you knew in advance that it could concern certain minorities, especially Christian minorities, and not just Yezidias, Druzes or other ethnic minorities. We are not at all in this case during the operation that I would call "Melikan Kucam/Theo Francken". Aleppo's operation is not halfway to what I'm going to talk about, and I don't want to say it. However, I would like to return, Mr. Geleyn, to your remarks that this was the only possible thing concerning these Christians in Aleppo, and that there was nothing else to do. I often hear that. This is absolutely not what I was able to verify on the ground by going several times specifically to meet the Christian communities of Syria and Iraq. First and foremost, they require protection on the spot. Belgium is in default and cannot protect them on the spot. In this case, its primary concern should be to contribute to international, national or local mechanisms aimed at ensuring that these communities can live on the ground. This is the first demand these communities make. They have also recently stressed this point. This was the first request of the Christian community in Aleppo. When this operation took place, it created a lot of controversy; you seem to say that everything went very well, and that it was great. That is not the case at all. This has created, within the Christian communities itself, a great deal of discussion between Maronites, Armenians, Orthodox, Syriac etc. The criteria used by the government were never known. The second operation was, in a way, intended to repair certain things that had caused difficulties in the first operation. You don't have to tell pretty stories in pink water about this operation. This was probably justified in some respects. I also recall that the danger came mainly from government forces that indiscriminately bombed all civilian populations. The danger was there. It was Russian aviation that constituted the danger at that time. This danger threatened the entire population of Aleppo. Even if a specific operation towards the Christian community could be justified in some way, it would be a good idea to take an objective look at it. It should be recalled that there have been difficulties, discussions, that there is always a Christian community in Aleppo, and that Aleppo would like to be supported there, including through reconstruction assistance and humanitarian aid.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u24	Once again, Belgium is failing to provide it in the region. To join Mr. De Vriendt, this is an action whose results in terms of protection would merit an objective evaluation, so that we know what mistakes we will no longer have to make in such rescue operations. I therefore call for this calm and objective assessment, under the leadership of international organizations whose professionalism is recognized in the rescue of vulnerable people. In conclusion, I would like to ask our consul in Beirut a little question, which I thank for the clarity of his presentation. I had already heard that on September 14th, you received an e-mail from Mrs. Verlinden, from Theo Francken's office, instructing you to receive Melikan Kucam. You said it was an exceptional step. You should send us a copy of this e-mail in order to see who was included in it as a copy: for example, the Foreign Office or the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I understand very well your reaction, when you respond to your instructions to welcome someone who enjoyed the trust of Mr. Franken's office. I have no reason to oppose it. At the same time, you say it's a bit special. For my part, I do not know what your state of mind is when you receive such an email. Given its exceptional character, do you think of reacting? Do you discuss this with your ambassador? Do you consider such instruction relevant? Obviously, it is of a political nature, since it does not come from the Office of Foreigners, which usually takes care of giving it to you. In short, this is not the ordinary way. As some colleagues have pointed out, you then give the passports. I wish I'd known the number. You give the passports to this gentleman, who then leaves the compound of our diplomatic post and goes to the street to distribute these passports. It's kind of curious. It's almost shocking. It is still an extremely important and valuable document. Are you used to this kind of public passport distribution in Beirut? What has been your attitude in relation to this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u25	First of all, I will leave all the groups to speak before leaving the groups that have already spoken for a second time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u26	On behalf of my group, too, I would like to thank the interveners for their explanations, especially because it is very difficult to work in committee. All sorts of messages are sent out into the world, mostly by a tweeting Secretary of State. Last week he was tweeting at the committee. I see that he has been tweeting again and commenting on the committee: 'Our consul in Beirut clearly states in Chambers that working with intermediaries is not abnormal and has organisational added value'. Of course, this is not the case here; it is about whether criteria have been used and whether money has been paid. It would be really good if the former Secretary of State were to stop constantly sending disinformation about what is happening here in a committee where he is not even present and apparently does not think he should be present. It's hard to work because it's been sending disinformation for weeks. We have heard that they have all applied for asylum and received it. Last week we heard from the Commissioner-General for Refugees that they had no idea. We heard or read on Twitter that they were all Syrian Christians. In the meantime, we know that this is not the case either, at least not with Sant'Egidio. We heard the beautiful slogan that we saved Syrian Christians from the claws of IS. This does not appear to be the case with Sant'Egidio either: the people were in Turkey and Lebanon. I also saw Mr De Volder say very emphatically this morning in De Morgen: 'We did not have to save anyone from the claws of anyone'. So that too turned out to be a chat. In the meantime, we also know that applications have also been made locally in Belgium, even with full banana boxes, apparently. I suspect that it may be a very difficult suspicion to refute, because it may well be the reality that the strict rules on family reunification have been evaded in this way. That's an introduction. I'm surprised at the huge difference between the two surgeries. I notice that Sant'Egidio works with what is called a declaration of intent, which is almost drawn up as a contract. It is indeed much more correct to call it a declaration of intent. That text is accurate, contains criteria, contains numbers. That text also says that there will be screening by the public authorities, and so on. That text even says how the financial aspect is handled very accurately. One does not intervene and Fedasil intervenes only in medical costs. I hear from you, Mr Geleyn, that there was no formal contract, but a scenario. You mentioned it at a certain point in time as a road map. Where's the different M.O. coming from? Afterwards, apparently there have been other methods, involving fellow party members. I find it difficult to imagine that one organisation works in a very detailed and precise way and that other organisations are almost entirely reliant on it or that at least there are no texts. Or maybe you don't want to release it? As in De Morgen, you said earlier that you would not say anything about it, because you could endanger people's lives. Mr Geeyn, I heard you say in this matter and correct me if I say it wrongly, that you could not guarantee what happened to other people, that you knew nothing about it. Anyway, I'd like to hear what the playbook is. Is this about oral appointments made on trust? Or is there a text of it? The text of Sant'Egidio is in any case very detailed. Then what is the basis of this confidence, Mr Geelyn? Did you have any prior contact with Mr. Francken? I notice he treated you quite differently than Sant'Egidio. That's what I'd like to know. I find these different approaches very strange. It's hard to explain, isn't it? Of course, Mr Geeyn, I am not suggesting anything in your direction. Not at all. But the difference between the method with Sant'Egidio, with a detailed document, and the method with Kucam is very difficult to explain. They really go from one extreme to another extreme, in which apparently party mates intervene. Mr. Ambassador, you referred to an e-mail dated 14 September 2018 from the Francken cabinet. Anyone who says a must say b or one should not whistle what one does not want to say. I'd really like to get that e-mail. I would immediately point out that this is a service e-mail, not a private e-mail. On behalf of the Secretary of State and the Belgian Government, an instruction is given to an embassy abroad. It is therefore difficult to question the fact that this is a service e-mail. As far as I am concerned, you may even anonymize that mail, because most of the committee members will have the same name in mind here. However, I would like to know the content of that mail. Do you have that e-mail with you now? Would you please read it to me? After all, that is very important to know how the contacts were with the Francken cabinet. After all, he was Secretary of State and sent an e-mail to an embassy on behalf of the Belgian government. If you now answer me that the Belgian representatives of the people do not receive this mail, we are, quite frankly, living in a banana republic. Mrs Smeyers, he must not refuse, because it is a service email addressed on behalf of the Belgian Government to a Belgian embassy. So I would like the speaker to read that mail.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u27	Mr President, now that all the groups have spoken, I have three questions. We have been told very clearly by Mr De Volder that a procedure involving visas, transport and reception of refugees costs some money. I believe that Mr Geleyn said that the refugees themselves did not pay, or perhaps it was Mr De Volder. However, it has been expressly stated here that it was not up to the refugees to pay the costs. If I understand correctly, it was Sant'Egidio's procedure that they took charge of the costs. That's how I understood it. How much does such a shipment cost in total, with the costs over there and the costs here? Do the other intermediaries work in the same way? Have they taken on these costs? That is the crucial question. Did you know how those other intermediaries financed that? You have always used the term private sponsorship, but who exactly is that private sponsor? It is in line with Mrs De Coninck's question. Secondly, a specific question about the procedure itself, and other colleagues have also asked for it. Was there even an alternative to working with those lists, with that pre-selection and selection? What is your vision and opinion? Is there a better alternative at all, apart from the ordinary resolution procedure through UNHCR? Mr President, I would like to say a few words about this e-mail. I have been a Member of Parliament for 12 years, I am not going to insinuate anything, but I do not want to be silly. Mr Parmentier said he received an e-mail from the cabinet. Mr De Vriendt said it was an e-mail from a cabinet employee. And Mr Dallemagne mentioned the name of the employee. Mr Vuye, something makes me think that this mail is already in the hands of certain committee members, otherwise they would not have specifically mentioned the name. And if you have it, you shouldn't ask about it, colleagues. Don't be silly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u28	You need to listen better.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u29	It's not because you say you don't have it, that you don't have it. Anyway... Mr President, I do not pretend to be a better lawyer than Mr Vuye. Who's that at all? But perhaps we should ensure that we do not violate the investigation by trying to be the judge of inquiry here. I want to leave it in the middle. I'm gonna let you circulate what's going on. I would like to be equally transparent and clear, but I would like to warn against this. If you can rebut all this very correctly, we can rest assured and then I am sure that mail may also circulate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u30	On your last point, I can only say that we have said on several occasions in committee during the course of the work that we can do everything we can to obtain information, but we must, of course, ensure that we do not interfere with the judicial investigation. Who else wants to speak?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u31	Mr President, I will be very brief. The current rules leave much room and discretion to the relevant minister in question. However, this does not prevent the law from being applied, even if it allows a great deal of freedom, with respect for the principles of good governance. Especially in the light of human vulnerability one can do this with enormous care. If I've heard our guests today, I've heard a lot about that. This can be done very carefully, even if the legislation in this area is not detailed. As far as we are concerned, due diligence means transparency, official and in cooperation with public authorities, and free of charge for those involved. Questions are being asked here by colleagues about the distinction between the Aleppo operation and the operation of Sant'Egidio. There is, however, something common, both free of charge for vulnerable parties. One is financed by public funds and the other by private funds, subject to medical costs. For those directly involved, it is free of charge and so it should be. I believe that aftercare is also important, aftercare for integration into our society, especially if there is a serious chance of recognition. Mr De Vriendt, let me be quite clear: I support the operations we are discussing today at 200 percent. I also agree with you that the definition of vulnerability is not 'Christian', and you hear this from the mouth of a Christian Democrat and a Christian'. In the Middle East, many Christians are vulnerable. We agree on that. Mr President, I think that this is good, because in the media there is enormous attention to some harsh Flemings and Belgians. These stories teach us that our country and many inhabitants have a golden heart for people in trouble, and those stories are, in my view, a little too little in the media. I'd rather hear them more, because I think the good carita examples are good. I have a first question for the three guests. A second question is for Mr Parmentier. The first question concerns the definition of vulnerability. Mr Geeyn, there have been other questions put to you on this subject than to Mr De Volder, but it is clear that the committee naturally assumes that people who have been in the war conditions of Aleppo are, by definition, vulnerable. How can we avoid, with or without legal adjustments, that others are less careful than you, because we cannot bring everyone to our country? How can we implement the concept of vulnerability so that people do not take advantage of it? Secondly, free of charge for those involved is very important. I just have a question for you, Mr Parmentier. We know how it happened in one operation, but as far as the other operation is concerned, you spoke of a proof of payment of administrative costs. What knowledge did you have with regard to the financial handling of the direct data subjects: what did they pay and who paid? Can you give an overview of the different costs? As far as the mail is concerned, if anyone in the committee had the e-mail available, I would ask him to deliver it to the chairman of the committee and then the political game is over. I think that the issue of human beings is too important to play political games with. For the rest, Mr President, I refer to the public administration, which, of course, allows the ambassador to deliver this letter to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u32	Mr President, I join my colleagues in thanking our speakers. Your presentations complete the puzzle. One word comes to me: public-private partnership in the context of humanitarian visas. In some cases, they are certainly realistic corridors to save people in great distress, but they can, under other conditions, lead to drifts such as those that motivate our committee and our hearings. A lot of questions have been asked, but I will add a few to each of you. In the course of your work in recent years, have you heard any rumours about Mr Kucam's visa trafficking? If so, did you do anything about this information and did it inform your action? According to CGRA and the Office of Foreigners, in early 2015, Mr.Franken brought together some partners, administrations and NGOs to reflect on how to relaunch the policy of humanitarian visas. Have you been invited or consulted? Did you participate in this reflection, which seems to have stopped in 2015? Mr De Volder, we have the agreement you reached with Mr Francken after a lot of negotiations, because the criteria that the Secretary of State imposed on you did not fully fit into your usual practice. How was vulnerability approached operationally? You were supposed to put it into practice. Being a family with children, being a woman or a man with disabilities is a criterion. But there are many families with children and persons with disabilities, especially in a country in conflict. In your discussions with the Secretary of State and in your practice, how did you translate this? You can see that there is no single man mentioned. Is that an order or an agreement made with Mr. Franken? Why? With regard to possible links with Belgium, it is well indicated that this was an additional criterion. Rather, I want to say that this is a criterion of less vulnerability, as far as they could be welcomed. Is there any idea of how many of the 150 people who arrived in Belgium had prior ties with Belgium? With regard to the information that was supposed to be requested from the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the Migration Services of Turkey, by whom was this information requested? What was that information? How has it been used? I don't know if it was within your jurisdiction or that of Mr. Franken's office. On this written agreement, it is stated that people, once in Belgium, will apply for asylum. Was it the responsibility of Sant'Egidio and your partners or of Mr Franken's office, the Foreign Office? How were responsibilities distributed? It seems that you and your partners from the different religious communities have followed these people. Now, have they all applied for asylum? Have some left Belgium, for example? Mr Geleyn, a few questions for you, if I may. You mentioned that in the first group of 244 refugees, there were both Dutch-speaking and French-speaking, and different obediences. Can you tell us how these people were selected? I didn't get it right. On the basis of what criteria? Do you have a distribution, as we asked for for Mr. From Volder, different religious obediences? You also mentioned that this group of people had asked Messrs. Reynders and Franken a permit to arrive in Belgium. Was this group structured? Who, if any, was the intermediary who intervened with MM. Reynders and Franken? Was it yourself? With which other attendants or intermediaries do you work? My last questions are for you, Mr. Parmentier. You reminded us of the normal, lengthy procedure involving the Office of Foreigners, and the discretionary procedure for which the instructions came directly from Mr. Franken's office. As I understand it, among the evidence that applicants must produce in order to obtain the visa, there is, in particular, evidence of the payment of the fee on the account of the Office of Foreigners. There was a report on the granting of discretionary humanitarian visas in Mr Franken's head. Have you been in contact with the Foreign Office at any time? In what way? Only for administrative payment or other matters? You mentioned the fact that you were sending nominative invitations to these people. Where did they live? I imagine it is difficult to reach those people who do not always have a fixed home and who sometimes have to hide. How were you doing? You recalled Mr. Kucam's e-mail. I'm not going to go back on it; we've talked enough about it. We look forward to learning about it. On two occasions, you mentioned the fact that Mr. Kucam was a local elected official. Was it a notice received that it should be specified? What was your perception? Would being a local elected official be a criterion for an embassy? You said that you rarely met an intermediary such as Mr. Kucam, but you also spoke of attendants in the case of groups. What difference do you make between an escort who makes it practical to obtain visas and an intermediary? Finally, after the meeting with Mr. Kucam and his son, did you have any contact or relationship with him or through the firm?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u33	The gentlemen have had a lot of questions. The question is just how many they will be able to answer in a structured way.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your many questions and for your patience and willingness to listen. At the university we have a break after an hour of lessons, but that is not the case here. I don't know if I'll be able to answer all the questions. Regarding the role of UNHCR and our contact with it: Sant'Egidio is in contact with high-level UNHCR, i.e. between our headquarters in Rome and their headquarters in Geneva. There are contacts and there are talks about these humanitarian corridors and resolution. That's not ad hoc, they're also structural contacts. In the transit countries where we have worked, I would like to reiterate once again that UNHCR has no longer been authorised by the Lebanese Government to register refugees since 2015. They may only do prima facie a first superficial registration, but not a thorough survey of the people. This has to do with Lebanese situations and with the sensitivities in that country about the presence of so many Syrians. I will not dwell on that now, but that does make things complex. This means that UNHCR in that country does not have the full room for manoeuvre it would like. You can feel free to ask if you receive a UNHCR representative here. Our assessment was to check whether a particular person was known, or whether they were registered in a prima facie scheme. Knowing that this person is known and that he is indeed on the territory was a criterion for us, but the assessment of the vulnerability was indeed a matter for us because at that time that information was not present at UNHCR, as far as I was informed. That's not an ideal circumstance. Sant'Egidio also has a project in Ethiopia for Eritrean refugees. That is not with Belgium, but with Italy. UNHCR is active there, and there it is fully complementary. Mr De Vriendt, these are two different ways of working which indeed have very different characteristics. We shouldn't put that under the seats or sofas. I have a lot of respect for the UN. I am in favour of such resolution arrangements, which should actually be extended more. A number of questions can nevertheless be raised for recipient countries. Who's making the selection? The decision about the people who come from Lebanon to Belgium is made here by someone from Belgium. In UNHCR, it's anonymous. That could be one of Mauritius, with all due respect to the people of Mauritius. Little account has been taken of the context and the links here. I really think the roads should be complementary. That's my main message today. I am pleased to hear that no one here intends to abolish the practice of humanitarian visas. Perhaps some things should be better framed, but that is your job and not my job. As a partner involved and as a person who works in an organisation that has some experience, longer than yesterday, who knows how things are going in that world, who knows how refugees are being treated and who knows how desperate it is for people who are sometimes unable to go, I can only say that the humanitarian visa is a very nice tool because it allows for humanity and flexibility. UNHCR is very bureaucratic and very slow. I say that with great respect for the organization, but I think the people of that organisation will admit it themselves. When people are finally eligible for resettlement, people's situation has often changed. I don't criticize them, I think it's a good instrument. It's an interstate exchange. That's a way to deal more humanely with refugee flows. So I am in favour, I think we should do that, but I think there should be something else, and that is the model of the humanitarian corridor. Maybe it can still be scraped on the left or right, I do not deny it, but we do want to work with a humanitarian corridor. Now I come to Turkey. In my opinion, UNHCR has very little to say to the Turkish immigration service, because the Turks have a very well-organised state, yet understated, do migration management itself. We simply asked whether the people we were looking for were known and notified there. If that were the case, it would have been okay for us, and apparently for them, too. Again, our experience in Turkey is very limited. I do not know whether we can really draw far-reaching conclusions on the basis of these few dozen cases. A lot of questions were asked about vulnerabilities, vulnerability. Philosophically and anthropologically, I must say that every human being is vulnerable. Each of us is vulnerable to a germ, to a bullet, to anything. Man is vulnerable. There are, of course, degrees of vulnerability. In this respect, we comply with Directive 2013/36/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013, which states in Article 21: "Member States shall take into account in their national law implementing this Directive the specific situation of vulnerable persons such as minors, unaccompanied minors, disabled persons, elderly persons, pregnant women, single parents with minor children, victims of trafficking in human beings, persons with serious diseases, persons with mental disorders and persons who have undergone torture, have been raped or other serious forms of psychological, physical or sexual violence, such as victims of female genital mutilation." That definition is used. We have not all been able to use these criteria because they do not all apply. For example, we have ruled out working with single minors, as this creates a very complex, additional issue of custody, the question of who is responsible for the minor, for which, among other things, the Convention on the Rights of the Child applies. In our opinion, organisations such as the UNHCR and the Red Cross are more specialised in this than we are, so we have not done so. To be honest, we have not received many questions either. You can read the criteria we have taken into account in the agreement or declaration of intent. You are, of course, right. There are many people with disabilities and there are many families with children. A consideration must therefore be made. That consideration is painful. I'm glad I don't have to make them myself. I personally didn't do that. There are other people in our organization who do that. I also know that sometimes this is not easy. We should be able to help more people. Nevertheless, I still have a few things to spell out in this regard. First of all, 150 seems to be a very small number. That's small, but for those 150 people, it makes a world of difference. I can assure you of that. The figure of 150 is more than several Member States of the European Union have done together. You shouldn't forget that either. For us, however, it was not about the 150. After all, Sant'Egidio also has other projects for several thousands of refugees. Fortunately, for a person for whom we decided that he could not come to Belgium, for whom there was no room, perhaps somewhere else. In the conversations and interviews that are taking place with those involved, especially in the conversation we call expectation management, which means that people are being prepared for their expectations, when they come to Belgium or Europe, we explain what kind of country Belgium is. We also remind them of the difficulties that await them here and what it means to be here as a refugee. For example, he or she can't just go back to Syria. That's one of the points. In doing so, we note that people either drop out or decide to stay in their country after they have got it all figured out. Not every refugee in Lebanon wants to come to Europe. That's not right. After all, many people prefer to be closer to home, hoping that they will be able to return when the situation is cleared up. Others find their way in Lebanon or Turkey. Of course, a lot of people are also in very precarious situations there. It is not easy for a Syrian to live in Turkey, especially for a Christian Syrian. After all, there is double discrimination. I am sorry for our Turkish friends who are doing a major operation by housing three to four million Syrian refugees. Three to four million refugees is not nothing. Turkey is the country that houses most refugees on its own territory. Nevertheless, many people complain about discrimination, for example Arabs by Turks and Christians extra by Muslims. That's a fact. Mr. Ambassador, you know the story. I won't dwell on it much. I do not want to say anything unfriendly, because the Lebanese are also making a great effort, but there too, not everything is so simple. That consideration needs to be made. Another important criterion. The links with Belgium also have to do with integration in Belgian society. We have also asked some people whether it was better for them to remain in an Arab society. We have also found medical solutions for some people on the ground. It is not that we were the only solution to come to Belgium, while we were doing nothing for the rest. That consideration is very delicate. We really hope that more countries will open up to such humanitarian corridors, because there is still much need. In Syria, the situation has not been resolved and some people really have nothing to return to. If we compare the number of people we have received from Syria, where a centuries-old society was destroyed with six to seven million refugees as a result, that is not nothing, it is still relatively limited here. I believe that the European Union should be more courageous in this and that we should also encourage our Eastern European and Central European friends to do something more in this respect. That's what I have to say about that. I don't know if that'll do. We have used the criteria as well as possible. Every story is different, too. We have also been interested in the stories of the people. Our people do this very conscientiously, and I can put my hand in the fire for that. Those are people who have been working free of charge for many years of their lives, including for poor people, people in need, close to our cities. So they also have some knowledge of people. They're not computers, they're people with knowledge of people. I have every confidence that they have done well. Of the people I have seen arriving here in Belgium and whom I have met myself, they are not all 150, but some of them, I can say that they are indeed eligible for that aspect of their story. What could be better? I am grateful that our country and therefore the Secretary of State in question have handled our question flexibly and positively. Not all countries have done so. In Germany, for example, we have a discussion with the government. Germany is interested in the model of the Humanitarian Corridor, but the government will not allow the government to intervene, in case of private sponsorship, for medical costs. Asking a private sponsor to cover the medical costs is not really possible; one knows where one starts, but not where one ends. That is one of the points of discussion. I do not exclude other countries from joining the model, and I sincerely hope so. Who are these private sponsors? What are they paying? In our case, the private sponsors are the honorary services. For a good understanding, that's not Sant'Egidio. We do not have the financial means to shake such an operation out of our pocket. In collaboration with Caritas, the Catholic Church, the bishops, has received the bulk of the people. They held a special collection last Christmas. That collection was enough to pay for the whole operation. How much is that? We have calculated a model for our partners. For a family of four people two adults and two children we count on 18 400 euros per year, all costs included. There's a lot of stuff in there. That includes the flight, the visas, the costs and the amont, as well as the costs here on the spot. A large variable, which we cannot control, is the speed with which the international recognition of those concerned follows. If it lasts six months or more, the costs in the model are of course higher. If it takes less time, the costs are reduced. That variable is hard to estimate. In any case, I am told that a cost of EUR 18 400, including pocket money, is very close to reality. Mrs De Coninck, thank you for your question on freedom. The liberal organizations, on the French-speaking side the Centre d'Action Laïque (CAL) and on the Dutch-speaking side de Mens, are indeed partners of Together in Peace. During the parade in Brussels following our famous start-up meeting on 15 March 2015, these organisations joined. I would have loved to have them on board for our Humanitarian Corridor. I'd love to. You will see, by the way, when you look at that first letter of January 2017 to the federal government, that it was still signed by the Dutch-speaking representative of the Mens.nu. But and the route is cancelled. I think you'd better ask them why. I'm still sorry. By the way, you will read a mysterious phrase in our protocol, in our declaration of intent, that we will do our best to involve other moral persons. That was actually a reference to our hope that there would be liberal organisations jumping on the wagon, but that did not really work. I quote number 13: "In carrying out this project, the initiators seek the moral and/or material support of other partners." I didn't want to say it at first, but you asked about it, Mrs. De Coninck. That's the answer. I give that to underline that it really wanted to be an operation that was broad human, humanitarian, and not just an operation of the cults. Now, the cults have done it de facto. What else could be better? Mrs Lanjri, thank you for that question. As far as we're concerned, I think it went well. We are very pleased. I am also very pleased with the cooperation with our services, the embassies, the cabinet and so on. I have to say, it went really smoothly. A feather on the hat for all officials who have given their cooperation smoothly. What could possibly be better? We are the only country in which such humanitarian operations require the payment of roll-call rights for visas. We asked the Ministry if we could get an exemption. I couldn't. We have therefore paid for the right to roll. That means extra costs for the project, but okay. We don't complain too much. In general, we are very pleased with the cooperation. It's a public-private cooperation. We hear it that way. What happened to people who arrived in Belgium? I followed your session last week. I did a little investigation to see if everyone really asked for international protection. We need to know that we have a document signed by those who come and one of the things stipulated in it is that they must demand international protection on Belgian territory. It's our request and they know it. Apparently, everyone did, except for two people, a mother and a girl who went to Germany. Nothing's perfect. The last arrivals are still in process. We're waiting because it still takes a few months. Those who had the answer were all recognized, but not all of them as refugees. Towards the end, people only had subsidiary protection. This changes their situation a little, but it is the assessment made by the Office of the Commissioner General, it is not our competence or that of the Secretary of State. Accompaniment is another aspect of our programme, of this humanitarian corridor. We want to promote the idea of integration. We see a great generosity in our society. In 2015, there was a large influx of refugees in Europe. Many families have called us, or other organizations, to welcome someone. The services were so busy that many families were willing to accommodate someone but never saw anyone. As part of this project, many of these families have expressed their readiness to accommodate people. I would point out here that we have not accepted that the latter stay with people, therefore in private houses. We have always asked parish and community representatives and people who were organizing to rent a house or apartment for individuals or families. Accommodation in a household is often not obvious. It is best that the family arriving have their own home, their own home, but being, of course, accompanied by someone. This is the strength of the project. Moreover, we should better develop this capacity to welcome and integrate. Indeed – and I will end with that – communities integrate better than structures.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u35	(...) I can't say for sure anymore. It is highly unlikely that they were there given the position taken by the UN in relation to the Assad regime. Nor did we go to Syria before the operation, which was far too dangerous for us. Maybe that wasn't brave. It was a sauve qui peut of everyone and of course we could not open a desk in Aleppo. The selection of that horrible word, we call the drawing up of the lists's', has happened in particularly tragic circumstances. Mr Dallemagne said earlier that it was quite smooth and that the impression was that it all went well. When I speak of tragedy, there was tragedy. There was jealousy, retribution, revenge, envy and threat. That didn't go well at all. One thing that might be very useful in the debate to see the reality of the situation is whether the Christians in Aleppo had an alternative. From what I later heard of the 244 people who are now based here in Belgium, it appeared that in 2014 and 2015 all Christians in West Aleppo permanently broke their heads over three years of siege about whether they would flee through the remaining corridor to go to Lebanon. The risk was that they wouldn't be welcome in the camps and that they would have to travel around just to escape. A second point that they still recall is that it would have taken perhaps two, three or four years for a resolution to be possible through the UN if they were in those camps in Lebanon. That made the Christians stay on the scene. The alternative was to wander around Lebanon. Otherwise, they could stay in the community. We also saw this here in Europe in the 1930s and 1940s. They asked if there was an alternative. Yeah, there was an alternative to our operation, doing nothing. I have experienced this in my profession with the Foreign Office in Timor-Leste. We didn't do anything there. There were thousands dead. I'll go over the other questions. How do I identify intermediaries, ma'am? I'm stabbed, but I'm not gonna tell you. That is the essence of my position. As far as the operation is concerned, the middlemen, my mouth remains closed. It's too dangerous for those who stay there. Has there been any corruption in the list? That is the question of questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u36	The owl of Athens always flies out in darkness: that is, every human endeavour, every human action, is accompanied by uncertainty, with darkness. We believe, with a certain probability, that no money has been deposited in our operation by intermediaries. Why not? We derive this exclusively from the numerous talks we have had with the 244 people involved for four years. We have accompanied them during a week after the arrival, we have accompanied them in the reception centers and the integration courses and we have received them twice in Scherpenheuvel, for a mass and a Syrian brunch where 250 Syrians were together. We talked to everyone for hours. It has been four years since we have been in regular contact with them and we have never heard any complaints. That is unlikely, because in a tragic situation a lot is being done about it. So it's not 100 %, I'm not metaphysically certain, but it's most likely the truth. Mrs Lanjri, thank you very much for your interesting questions. We believe that all 500 people have applied for asylum in Belgium and I believe that they are still in Belgium. You and others asked how the follow-up should be done later, if something like this happens. Foreign Affairs, in cooperation with the Central Emergency Office close to the Prime Minister's location, discusses what is happening in the world on a daily basis. Foreign Affairs works with interests and with human rights, with values, and these two are constantly mixed. We can never say how a situation will turn out later. I myself experienced one evacuation once, namely the evacuation of our soldiers from Eastern Slavonia. There can be no criterion, procedure or framework for this. This was an exceptionally complicated, difficult situation. And so it will be with other situations later. Let me take the example of the Jezidis. We are not present in a number of areas of the world. The Germans were present in northern Iraq and have been able to save more jezidi's. The same applies to the Americans. If something were to happen later in Algeria and Egypt, if those countries were to explode, which will happen one day, then there will be situations around the Mediterranean, for which we can work out a number of procedures, but that will be totally unprepared. I hear a bit of derogatory talk here about the claws of ISIS. I regret that. ISIS was not directly active around Aleppo, but 50 kilometers away. It was Al-Nusra, a branch of Al-Qaeda. The difference between ISIS and Al-Nusra is the costume. In Qaraqosh, Maaloula and Al-Hasakah Christians were murdered by Al-Nusra. There are still two bishops from Northern Syria in the hands of Al-Nusra, probably dead, because they have had them for six years. The term "the claws of ISIS" may be short, but it does define the framework in which these people have to deal with reality. Mrs Waterschoot asked me about the criteria for choosing the thirty. I don't like the word "criteria." It is a group of like minded people who met, saw the news, noticed the general attention paid to the situation in Syria, and came together. I can tell you that there were five ambassadors in Syria in this group. I contacted them and they joined. I was the one who had contact with MM. Franken and Reynders, with two or three members of the group. For the rest, I cut myself behind the privacy of this group. I do the same for names, criteria and intermediaries. Mr Vuye, I'm sorry, but I won't tell you those names. I think I said the most important thing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u37	Thank you for your questions, which I will try to answer in the most structured way possible. Several of them dealt with the procedures as well as the exact role of the embassy in the issuance of humanitarian visas, in particular with regard to the assessment of an applicant's vulnerability. During his hearing last week, Mr Roosemont pointed out that there were four main categories of humanitarian visa: relocation - which is not discussed today -, resettlement operations, rescue operations and, lastly, the applicant's traditional request to the embassy or, from now on, to the private company which receives the visa applications. In these procedures, vulnerability is assessed each time by a different actor. When someone makes a classic application to the embassy, without belonging to any of the other categories, he may do so in the form of a humanitarian visa application. This has already been widely debated. There are no clear criteria for assessing whether the person concerned is entitled to benefit from it. Therefore, on the basis of the civil registration documents, the medical file, the situation of the person and the on-site interview, a non-binding opinion is sent to the Office of Foreigners. Then, this last statue sovereignly. This is the only case in which the Embassy plays this active role, by assessing the applicant's vulnerability to the extent of our means. It is not always obvious, for several very practical reasons: we are not present in Syria and we cannot go there. We therefore work with the means of the edge. The interview is generally the best way to assess the applicant's vulnerability. In the second category of procedure, resettlement operations...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u38	Allow me to ask for clarification on the first category you have just mentioned. The application is made at diplomatic post abroad, with you. Can the application also be submitted by the family, for example here in Belgium, for an individual case, for example a leftover family member, a sister or brother or adult child? Does that application go to DVZ or does it have to be submitted to the diplomatic post, or can it be done by both means?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u39	No, indeed, the visa application must be submitted to the diplomatic post. You mentioned a common case: family reunification which is "possible" for the nuclear family (parents and minor children). In some cases, a child of age who remains in Syria, for example, or an isolated grandparent does not have the right to family reunification. In this case, they apply for a humanitarian visa in Lebanon. The application must be made on the spot. In resettlement operations, this has already been discussed, and I do not go back to that. Vulnerability is initially assessed by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, which is pre-screening on the basis of Belgian criteria. Then, CGRA comes to confirm this screening and send its findings to the firm. In the third category of applications for a humanitarian visa - rescue operations - the vulnerability is assessed at the firm level (but I have no information on it) or the intermediaries who provide the names or lists to the firm. I have no information on this. I've heard the word screening on several occasions. This is a procedure that is not carried out by the embassy, so I am not going to dwell on it, but, indeed, when we talk about screening in the procedure, it is a security check carried out by the State Security and the OCAM. In all cases, whether it is a relocation or a request in the rescue operations (pure discretionary visas), this screening is carried out. A number of questions have addressed our view of a possible improvement or need to maintain this humanitarian visa procedure. You know what I'm saying. It is not for me to rule on this procedure. I'm a performer. I will therefore allow qualified persons in this field to comment on this issue. We were not informed about what was going on in Belgium. Once people get their visas, whether it's through an escort or not, we don't have any more information. We don't know. We do not have statistics on the number of asylum applications. We have no data on this. The question was asked for the "Melikan Kucam" operations. My answer is obviously the same in this case. I was also asked if I had any idea of the origin of the applicants for a humanitarian visa. I don't have statistics. Indeed, each request, each interview, should be looked at. This concerns many files. Unfortunately, I do not have the time or the staff to do this kind of statistics. I was also asked about the method of communication between the Foreign Office/cabinet/embassy triangle. It seems useful to me to repeat that all the instructions addressed to the embassy come from the Foreign Office. We never issue a visa, and that never happened, on an instruction coming directly from the firm. Everything always passes through the Foreign Office. That being said, in an ideal world, the firm, which worked with certain intermediaries and contact points, validated this list and sent it to the Office of Foreigners. The Foreign Office is sending me this list. In an ideal world, the fifty people on the list all present themselves on D-Day with a complete file. In reality, unfortunately, this is far from the case. This requires considerable follow-up. Often, we have Mr A. who has been stuck at the border, we have Mrs B. who finally decided to leave a little later, and Mr C. who has changed his mind and who finally does not want to go to Belgium. In following up on these lists, we sometimes had direct contacts between the firm (Ms. Verlinden) and me. But often, the Foreign Office was attached. It was something quite normal and that made it easier, I must admit, to follow up on these files. I come to the question of Mr Kucam's visit on the spot. As far as the e-mail is concerned, the latter came from a direct collaborator of Mr Fancken. The name of the latter has already been mentioned several times. It's no secret. The e-mail came from his work address and was sent directly to my work address. I would like to make it clear that this was not an instruction. It was a polite request in which she made me a little bit of this gentleman and asked me if I was willing to receive him a few days later. The question of whether this was an unusual way of doing things was also asked of me, to which I answer "yes" for the good and simple reason that in general, the attendants or persons who were present at the embassy with the groups lived there, came from Syria, were in Lebanon or were in the region. It has happened a few times – I think I can even say twice – that the companion comes directly from Belgium: once with Mr Kucam and once with Mr Wieërs de Sant'Egidio. In both cases, the two people asked to meet us, which we found absolutely normal. In that case, it went through the firm. In the case of Mr Wieërs de Sant'Egidio, the contacts took place directly and he then came to the embassy. What was my mood when I received this e-mail? In my opinion, there was nothing unusual. It must be borne in mind that from the moment the date of the appointment is set, the story has been written for a long time. The names have been validated by the firm. They were transmitted by the Office of Foreigners. So, the on-site visit of an attendant can no longer change anything. There's no more decision to make. The issue of visas is ultimately only an administrative procedure. How many passports were issued that day? I cannot answer that question now. I need to do some checks. If I read the e-mail again, it's about two or three groups coming that week. So I guess we're talking about a few dozen passports. Is it usual to issue passports on the public highway? Very honestly, I don't know. From the moment we give the passports to that attendant or intermediary, we don't know what happens next. Here I discovered the footage of the report, just like you. I did find that this was not entirely appropriate, but there is absolutely nothing illegal about it. I'm going to pay the fee. I was asked if I knew who paid the fee based on humanitarian visa applications. In the case of a relocation application, Fedasil pays the fee. As far as Sant'Egidio is concerned, this has already been explained today. However, for discretionary visas from the office of the Secretary of State, I am not informed. We were simply asked to verify that this payment had taken place, and that was the end of it. I was also asked if I knew any rumors. No, of course not. I saw like you in the press this famous letter from a Syrian church. I've never heard of this letter. I am being asked about the specific role of the embassy in this regard. I would have reacted immediately as our responsibility was somewhat questioned in this letter. I'm going back to Mr. Kucam and his on-site visit. I didn't have any contact with him in flesh and bones anymore. I think he sent one or two e-mails again to the embassy, the Visas department or my direct collaborator, saying that, due to lack of time, it was no longer possible for him to return to Beirut. For the sake of full transparency, he had politely proposed to us, if we were in Belgium, to visit it. We didn't follow up. It is something that we are often offered out of politeness, but I have not seen any malicious intention. The issue of sending invitations is an excellent question. Indeed, we do not send these nominative invitations to people in Syria. I prepare them, I then send them to the Office of Foreigners, who transfers them to the firm and this one, who is in contact with intermediaries about whom I cannot give you information, transmitted these nominative invitations, so that people can cross the border and come to the embassy. I hope I have answered most of the questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u40	Anyone else asking for the floor? No one for N-VA? I'll draw up a list. Mr Vuye, I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u41	Of course, Mr Ambassador, you have not answered my question as to whether you are prepared to release that mail. It is a question of its precise wording. You are talking about des points de contact privilégiés. I would like to know if that is in it and what the further content of that mail is.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u42	Just like last week, we get a very clear overview here again. There are four categories: relocation, resolution, rescue operation and individual cases. There are actually few problems with the first three categories. Of course, it could be better, but that has been done openly, in a certain context, sometimes more or less worked out. So there are no real problems there. This concerns the fourth category, the individual cases. During the period of Theo Francken it concerns about 2 400 files. Last week and also now I found that there are two slopes in this category. There is the normal way to go. Mr Parmentier explained that again today. In the normal course, a file is submitted, for example by a mature child or a grandmother who is left behind, to the diplomatic post. You'll evaluate that file. There'll be an interview. Then you'll give DVZ a piece of advice. DVZ then does a security screening and then they make a decision. Last week we heard from DVZ that a large part, I thought two thirds, was rejected. If you get a go from DVZ, give you the visa. There is, after all, a certain assessment of the substance of vulnerability. Then there are individual files that have gone through shady intermediaries, with which the cabinet may have been caught. In any case, we have adopted a different procedure, and so have you, whereby lists of names have been validated by Mr Francken's cabinet. We heard last week that DVZ was ordered to deliver it to the embassy. DVZ was not required to give advice on this matter. They just had to do a security check. That was delivered directly to you. You confirm today that you could not do more than issue the visa for those files. That then went back to Brussels to deliver a visa for those people. I would like to point out once again that the situation there has gone wrong, namely for a certain part of it. For the majority of humanitarian visas, there is no problem. However, for a certain part of the humanitarian visa, there is a problem, namely for the part of the individual applications that went through lists and where there has been no substantive assessment of vulnerability, either by DVZ or by you or apparently not by the Cabinet, I can hear. The cabinet has simply based its judgment on confidence in a number of people, such as Mr Kucam. That's where it went wrong, and it went seriously wrong. We also warned against this situation, although we knew nothing about it. So that is a big problem, which puts a stain on the whole. That is what needs to be done and what cannot be done, not even in the future. I note today that you say the same thing as your colleagues from DVZ, that you were excluded from some of the files. I would also like to reiterate that nobody here has a problem with the humanitarian rescue operations and that no one doubts that, when a refugee is here and applies for a refugee status, the Commissioner-General treats him or her in the same way. That is the point where I find that the N-VA is trying to spout. I can't say otherwise. The party claims that the files are handled in the same way. That's right for phase two. However, where things have gone wrong, we have discovered this both last week and now, at stage 1, which is the stage at which we are examining who gets access to our country. I note that today, again, it is effectively confirmed that a group of people is receiving a special VIP treatment or shortcut, not being screened in terms of content, but only having to undergo a safety check. Then I'm gonna say it's about abuse and clientelism, which I can't. It is a shame that no substantive screening has been carried out for these people, perhaps at the expense of other refugees who needed much more protection. What remains unclear is whether these people actually applied for asylum afterwards, or whether they received a second gift from the Secretary of State, for example, by giving them a residence permit. The Secretary of State can do so on the basis of the legislation without any difficulty. Even if these people don't ask for asylum, the Secretary of State can give it to them. I do not yet know to what extent this has been used, which will have to be demonstrated by the competition between Mr Van den Bulck and Mr Roosemont, which will exchange these files.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u43	I'm having a bit of a hard time. It's a hearing. I believe that questions can be asked perfectly and that we should continue with that knowledge. I notice that people are already drawing conclusions here. If there is one conclusion to be drawn, it is that a scarce product on the market can get a lot of value and, of course, can be abused. That is the case with all procedures, in any society and in any place. From the government, widely viewed, i.e. politically, but also in terms of other actors, we need to ensure that products and procedures are used for the right people and for the right finality. One can check that in advance or afterwards. If mistakes have been made in this file, it is that there was very little information, despite the fact that much was asked for information, that there was no transparency, that there was no will to look critically at setting up some kind of humanitarian procedure, with the necessary control and transparency. If we make an effort, I believe that there is sufficient support in our society to contribute to the integration and reception of refugees, even to be positive about asylum procedures. What did I learn today? If one wants and if one is balanced with it, for example through declarations of intent, contracts or agreement notes, then much more can actually be done. In this way, too, much more transparency could grow. It also provides guarantees to avoid some risks, such as selling visas to those who can pay it. I have the feeling that this was a little bit the case last week, but now even more so than last week, that the people who are invited to be heard are being very defensive. You're not in court here. We just want to know what happened and how we can make it better for the future. Sometimes we hear that a number of people have dropped.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u44	For my part, too, much appreciation for the information we have received today. I think this has been a very useful hearing. As far as we are concerned, one conclusion is that there are actually too many differences in the ways in which our country can issue humanitarian visas. The individual route through the consulate is known. There is a procedure for this. The problem lies in the more collective operations, the rescue operations and working with intermediaries. I believe that these differences must be eliminated. We need to grow more towards one system because the room for manoeuvre is simply too large. We have seen what this can lead to. It has been the choice of the former Secretary of State to fill in this in a very different way, resulting in a proliferation of different procedures. We are already seeing the difference with the current Minister, Mrs De Block, who says that she wants more clarity and that she wants to get rid of this proliferation, unclear procedures and working with individual intermediaries that nobody really knows. I therefore believe that a tighter framework is needed for the more collective rescue operations. The ingredients are on the table: this is a protocol, for example the text with Sant'Egidio, and cooperation with recognised NGOs rather than with individual intermediaries. The UN can also be involved. After all, the fact that the UN plays an important role in resolution does not preclude the UN's being able to play an important role in humanitarian corridors and visas. One possibility is that the UN will do the selection in neighbouring conflict zones. More parliamentary control is also needed. Several members have already said it was a black box. Since 2015, possibly even earlier, we have been trying to get an idea of how humanitarian visas can be delivered, especially in rescue operations. It was always screened with its delicate nature, just like you are doing today, Mr Geleyn. In a parliamentary democracy, however, we need more insight into the procedure. The abuse and fraud that has emerged in recent weeks has been a surprise to almost all of us, although it is the result of an existing procedure which has been in place for some time. It is not normal that there was no remedy from Parliament at any time. A cure was impossible because our questions were not answered and because no information was known. As a result, there is a vacuum and we must resolve it. I hope that, after these hearings, we will all be able to take a parliamentary initiative in the few weeks that remain. We have already put forward a legislative proposal that still allows for humanitarian visas and rescue operations, although within a tighter framework.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u45	Mr Geeyn, I will not, of course, break your wheels or quadruples. That is not my custom either, and I say immediately, before I go on, that you have every right not to answer my question, and I respect that. However, I would like to explain why I am asking that question. We are likely to face a problem of care in the choice of intermediaries. That has nothing to do with you or with Mr De Volder, you are completely out of it. However, there has been some problem with the choice of intermediaries. What Mr De Vriendt is saying is correct, namely that Parliament has had no control whatsoever. You are now saying in a hearing in the Chamber that you are fully entitled to represent a group of a certain number of persons and that you are supported by a certain number of persons, but you do not want to say who they are. You have had contacts with Secretary of State Francken, with Minister for Foreign Affairs Reynders and with Prime Minister Michel.................................................................................................................................................................................... Did you also tell them that your organization is supported by 30 people, but that you would not tell them who they are, even if they broke your wheel? My question concerns how the selection of intermediaries took place. That is why I am asking my question. You have every right not to reply, but as a Member of Parliament I have to say that we actually have a huge problem, and still do, even after the hearing. This means that we will not find out in any way how the intermediaries were selected, how they came into contact with Mr Francken and how they went. For the sake of clarity, you will not have said to Mr Francken that your group consists of about 30 people, but that you did not want to give the names. You wouldn't have told him that, I suppose. Otherwise, it would have been very foolish for Mr Francken to cooperate with you. The selection of intermediaries is a problem. Apparently, it's impossible to find out here how these intermediaries are designated. Mrs. De Coninck said everyone's on the defensive. I can only confirm that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u46	I have repeatedly called for greater transparency here in Parliament, together with Mrs De Coninck and Mr De Vriendt. If you ask for more transparency today, Mr De Vriendt, I am sure you will still be in favour of it. We have never argued for fixed criteria. We have never argued for everything to be laid down in the law, because it would risk that certain groups would fall out and that it would not be possible to intervene in very humanitarian cases. Transparency and a certain line are needed. There are four categories. Each of these categories will have to be changed each time. Resettlement always happens with the UN, also relocation, but rescue operations from Aleppo or another region or country do not always have the opportunity to cooperate with the UN, because the UN is not always present. I agree that more transparency is needed and that we need a number of directives, Mr De Vriendt. A minimum number of cases can be requested. It's a good thing there's an agreement. It is good to say clearly what the responsibilities of the organisations and the state are and who takes care of the care. It is best to establish this in a written agreement. This was done orally in the case of Mr Geleyn. This can be done, but separate procedures are needed for each category 1, 2, 3 or 4. We need to put a line in that. An individual application cannot be compared to a resolution. In the case of resolution, the UN can absolutely be called upon, and I am in favour of doing so.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u47	Mrs Lanjri, please address the three speakers in particular and not the colleagues. We can have that debate later.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u48	I have remembered from the speakers that, in their view, it was really not possible, for example, to work through resolution and that the parties concerned would otherwise have come through resolution. The rescue operations we have received today are complementary to, on the one hand, relocation and, on the other hand, individual applications, which should also be possible. There we can effectively streamline a lot more. We can also learn from the good practices and take an example of San'Egidio's initiative. There's certainly good business in that. Perhaps we can also learn from rescue operations in other countries. Well, we should definitely do that. With the individual applications, Mr Kucam's lists were missing. I am not saying that all individual applications have gone wrong, but I am saying that they have been directly employed by the cabinet and that money has also been paid.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u49	Mr President, I would like to add one more thing. I do not want to get rid of any system in which a minister or a secretary of state can decide on his own; indeed, I do not want to throw the child away with the bath water; such a system can only be used in exceptional circumstances. For example, Aleppo may have been an exceptional circumstance. However, I do have a problem with this system of deciding on the lives of 2 400 people. Then we need a different procedure. If such a procedure is to be applied so often, a fair system must be developed for this purpose. Then we have a democratic right to ask questions. For me, the number of times it is used shows that there is a need, that there is a need that can somehow be met. All we have to do is make sure that it is done correctly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u50	I am fully aware of this situation and of the scope of your questions. I knew these would be the most important questions of this House. I can understand that. There are two categories. There are those who have spoken with me to Secretary of State Francken and Minister Reynders, and there are those who have helped us on the ground, in Aleppo, in Lebanon and in Belgium. From the first group, I can't give the list right now. I'll have to ask. That's a matter of privacy. Some people wish that, some people do not wish that, especially in view of recent commotions about humanitarian visas. As far as the second group is concerned, I am very sorry, but the situation has happened in such difficult circumstances, with such life-threatening situations, that we have had to stop that operation twice. There are people who have to run. Some people are still out there. Others are here. It is in the interests of their safety that no details are given as to how it happened. I can certainly move in the concerns you are concerned about this procedure. Het was toen saved who can. It had to happen quickly, and there wasn't much choice.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u51	Mr President, I would like to comment on the claws of ISIS. That is a quote from me, which is today in De Morgen in the big picture, and it always scares people when they see it so big. The question was how many of those 150 people were rescued from the claws of IS. At that time, indeed, no one, since they were in the neighbouring countries. However, we must look carefully at the historical circumstances in which these things have happened. I know the situation in Aleppo in 2015. I also know the two missing archbishops. I stayed with one of them in 2003 when I was in Aleppo. The situation was particularly dramatic and perhaps asked for an instrument that required great confidentiality and little formality. Of course, we had the luxury of working out a somewhat calmer protocol. In such cases, it can be useful. And that has proved to be absolutely useful. I am very glad that we have done so. We have learned from the past that this is best done, also to avoid difficulties afterwards. These are very different situations, which I do not think can be taken under one heading. All right, that's the political debate, but I just wanted to clarify my position.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u52	The e-mail has already been sent to my administration and is currently at the level of my minister's office, the Minister of Foreign Affairs. It is not for me to decide whether this email can be transmitted like this or not. It is an internal email of 7 or 8 lines containing mostly banalities. It can be summarized in one sentence. I'll read it to you. "Two of the three groups to come next week will accompany Mr Kucam himself. He would have liked to have met you during a brief interview to thank you personally for the work you and your services do." The rest are just details of the dates. It's banalities. I think you'll be disappointed if you expect something more important!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u53	What you read is, contrary to what you think, important. I will draw some conclusions from that later.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-05-54-commissie-ic1027x.u54	Mr Vuye's words were the last of this hearing. I would like to thank everyone for their presence, particularly Mr De Volder, Mr Geeyn and Mr Parmentier.
