ParlaMint-BE_2019-08-30-55-commissie-ic005x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the first meeting of the External Relations Commission of this new legislature. It is rather unusual that there is so much interest in this committee; I hope that in future there will be equal attention to the substance of our committee's work. As President, I will be committed to this, because there are many challenges for us at international level.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-08-30-55-commissie-ic005x.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, my proposal is that the Prime Minister should first present an introductory statement on the procedure followed. Then the Members who have tabled a question, namely Mrs Pas and Mr Bayet, were discussed. One member may then intervene per political group in the order of the size of the political groups. The Prime Minister is available until noon, he can answer the questions. In a second round there may be replies from other Members, I suggest that we limit them to one intervention per group. Does everyone agree to this proposal?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-08-30-55-commissie-ic005x.u3	Madam President, I have heard your proposed order of business. The fact that we are asking questions to the Prime Minister implies that the Prime Minister has the power to answer about the manner in which this new European Commissioner has been appointed. That doesn't make sense to me. As you know, this government is a minority, it represents only 38 out of 150 MPs. It seems strange to me that Parliament accepts that all our questions should be directed solely to the Prime Minister. Today, it seems to me important for Parliament to be able to express itself on the choice of sending Didier Reynders to the European Commission. It seems to me logical that, at this time when the majority is not yet in place, we can have this debate and this vote. I would remind you that this is not the first time that we have faced this kind of problem. When the decision to bomb Iraq had to be taken in 2014, there was not yet a government in place – the government in current affairs was the majority, which is not even the case today – and we decided to debate the merits of these bombings in plenary, committee and vote on this issue. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you vote on the subject before us today. We will introduce a motion to that effect after the exchange of views we will have with the Prime Minister. This one will explain to us what he has to say on the subject, it can be interesting. But, in any case, we must be able to vote on the mandate that we, as Parliament, give Didier Reynders to represent our country in the European Commission. According to the press, colleagues were not happy with Didier Reynders' designation for the N-VA, which is even unacceptable, and yet there is no need for a vote. I don't think that makes any sense. It is either felt that this is wrong and, in this case, the vote is taken, or it is felt that this is going and we are not voting. But, in case of agreement between traditional parties, no problem! Simply vote in favour of Didier Reynders to represent Belgium at the European Commission! It is a question of democracy. If we are put in a minority, we can live with it. But, don't try to make it clear that the government can or can't designate, etc. I therefore propose, ladies and gentlemen, to amend the agenda, and that, after the exchange of views with the Prime Minister, we should add a second small item to the agenda, namely, to propose a motion to vote on whether or not to appoint Didier Reynders as Commissioner for the European Commission. What do you think, colleagues, of this great idea?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-08-30-55-commissie-ic005x.u4	I can see from the outset the show that the PTB is trying to submit to us. Mr Hedebouw, if, as you claim, you are a good Democrat, since you are calling for democracy, know that it is not for the Belgian Parliament to appoint the European Commissioner. This is not foreseen by the European institutions. This is not European democracy. European democracy says that it is the European Parliament that appoints the Commissioner and that it is up to us to suggest one or more names. Mr Hedebouw, this is European democracy. You are proposing to undress the European institutions and the European Parliament and to do a job that is not ours, if we are convinced Europeans. As far as my political family is concerned, it is not up to us to appoint the European Commissioner by a motion or recommendation or any other form that the Belgian Parliament might adopt. It seems to me that this would be counterproductive, particularly in terms of democracy and the European ambition we have. Our prerogative is to suggest one or two names. It is true that it would have been elegant to suggest a second name, including that of a woman. However, it is not for the Belgian Parliament to replace the European Parliament, but for the European Parliament and the President of the Commission to check whether the proposed candidate has the competence to carry out the European ambition, the work of the European Commission, and it is for the European Parliament to monitor the quality of this work.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-08-30-55-commissie-ic005x.u5	I'm suggesting I follow my proposal anyway. We can't vote today anyway. The Conference of Presidents should first be called together to accept the interplay. The next item is the motion for a resolution (Doc. That hasn't happened at the moment. It is therefore impossible, under the Rules of Procedure, to proceed to a vote. This can only be done on a motion for a resolution or on a motion for a resolution on the occasion of an interplay, which is not on the agenda today. Once again, I propose that we continue to follow the proposed approach, with an exchange of views with the Prime Minister and afterwards.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-08-30-55-commissie-ic005x.u6	Madam President, I have heard your proposal, but Rule 24 of the Rules of Procedure is very clear. Let me read out: 'The agenda for committee meetings is set by the committee itself'. The committee shall be responsible for its work and may decide on such a vote. I therefore propose that you, ladies and gentlemen, vote on the amendment of the agenda. I understand that we are trying here to say that we cannot discuss a motion, etc. However, we have already applied it on a number of occasions in committee. We can vote on whether or not the agenda is changed. I therefore propose that you proceed briefly to the vote, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-08-30-55-commissie-ic005x.u7	You can vote on an amendment to the agenda, but then you cannot vote on a motion, since that item was not dealt with in the Conference of Presidents. Actually, then, your question doesn't make any sense. We cannot vote on it today because, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, this must be done on the basis of a motion for a resolution or a motion after an interplay. You could have asked me for an exchange of views in August, after which a motion for a resolution could have been prepared. I would certainly have been open to that. That is no longer possible today.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-08-30-55-commissie-ic005x.u8	Madam President, I would have liked you to have referred the second point, the exchange of views between Members of Parliament, to the committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-08-30-55-commissie-ic005x.u9	Can you clarify what you mean by that? We are having an exchange of views today between the Prime Minister and Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-08-30-55-commissie-ic005x.u10	You say it must pass through the Conference of Presidents. You know very well, dear colleague, that we have dealt with many motions within the committees themselves in recent years. The commissions are queens to organize their own work.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-08-30-55-commissie-ic005x.u11	I can't. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, this can only be done after an interplay, which must first be submitted to the Conference of Presidents, and that has not happened.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-08-30-55-commissie-ic005x.u12	There is no colleague to support us in our approach? [[No]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-08-30-55-commissie-ic005x.u13	I suggest that the Prime Minister should now give a brief account of the procedure followed to nominate Didier Reynders as the European Commissioner.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-08-30-55-commissie-ic005x.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, over the last five years there has been a lot of discussion between the government and Parliament on policy at European level. These discussions took place in this committee, in the presence of the Minister for Foreign and European Affairs, in plenary on Thursday through topical questions or in the Federal Advisory Committee on European Affairs. I have made sure to be present regularly to present to you the positions which Belgium defended at the European Council. The members of the Advisory Committee have therefore repeatedly praised the quality of these debates. It discussed the future of Europe, socio-economic developments and monetary policy, the challenge of migration, fiscal and environmental justice and the development of an ambitious investment policy. This is a sign of the democratic vitality of our institutions and I think we should welcome it. We also know that the European Union is facing many political challenges. [[I shall briefly mention four of them: firstly, there is the debate on Brexit, for which a European Council will have to re-analyse the situation and perhaps take an attitude in October; secondly, there is the debate on enlargement of the Union, for which some countries are in a position to hope for developments in the negotiating phases and for which decisions must be taken by the European institutions; there is also the issue of climate, for which a strong ambition is being debated, with an objective by the end of the year to decide on arbitrations; finally, there is the main theme of the multiannual financial framework, which will have an impact on the Belgian Federal State as well as on the federated entities, since it will have to identify – in particular in relation to Brexit – what the consequences will be, both financially for the various Member States in terms of their contribution to the Union, but also on this important issue of choices in terms of allocation of European resources, for what types of priorities and goals.]] This is obviously not exhaustive, but these are four subjects for which intense debates will have to take place in the coming weeks and months. In these debates, Belgium will be represented – in any case I hope – by a government which will have a stable majority in parliament and which will have to defend certain convictions and points of view at European level. It is not for a government that is in day-to-day business – a fortiori since the federal elections that took place – to define these positions. They will be defined at the time of a federal policy statement that will be subject to a vote of confidence when, I hope, training can intervene. Having said that, I now turn to the question of the European Commissioner. What are the factual and chronological elements that led us to formulate our proposal to the European institutions? On 16 July 2019, the European Parliament elected by a majority vote (383 votes) the candidate proposed by the European Council, the German Ursula von der Leyen, as President of the European Commission. This is, and I note, the first woman to head this institution, and I do believe that this is a strong signal in favour of gender equality. Three days later, on 19 July 2019, I received a letter from the newly elected President inviting Belgium to nominate a European Commissioner. In accordance with the Treaty on European Union, Belgium has one seat in the European Commission, for which, like all Member States, it is requested to nominate a candidate. According to the planning agreed at European level, the installation of the new Commission is scheduled for 1 November 2019. In concrete terms, this means that the Member States, the President-elect, the Council of the European Union and the European Parliament only have just over three months to nominate a candidate, examine the applications, hold talks and hold hearings before the new team is finally approved by the European Parliament. In order to meet this timetable, the Finnish Presidency of the Council of the European Union invited the Member States to nominate a candidate Commissioner by letter by Monday 26 August 2019 and on 24 August 2019 24 Member States had already appointed their candidate Commissioner. Only France, Belgium and Italy had not yet given an indication. The United Kingdom, for its part, had decided and communicated that it would not present a Commissioner. In keeping with practice over the past thirty years, it is therefore up to the federal government to decide which candidacy is being submitted, even during current business, as was the case five years ago. Because of the political situation and the fact that at this stage there is no process of formation or pre-training of a federal government that started in Belgium, I have therefore actually begun to initiate informal contacts with officials of democratic political formations who are represented in the House of Representatives by a recognized political group. It is following these informal contacts that I proposed to the Council of Ministers on 24 August 2019 that the Prime Minister be empowered to forward to the European Union Didier Reynders' candidacy for the office of European Commissioner. We believe that the proposed candidate has the general skills to perform this function. I also want to remind you of one point that I think is essential. Article 17 of the Treaty on European Union explicitly states that the Commission shall exercise its responsibilities in full independence. The Commissioner does not seek or accept instructions from any government. Secondly, the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Article 245, also recalls the principle of independence: 'Members of the Commission shall refrain from any act incompatible with their duties. Member States shall respect their independence and shall not seek to influence them in the performance of their tasks." Finally, third point, according to the Code of Conduct, the new European Commissioner will no longer be the voice of Belgium or a political party, but the voice of Europeans. In accordance with the decision of the Council of Ministers, on Monday 26 August I forwarded Mr Reynders' candidacy to the elected President of the European Commission. Meanwhile, France has also indicated that it has chosen its European Commissioner, Sylvie Goulard, as communicated on 28 August. Today, therefore, only Italy has yet to make this designation. On Tuesday, 27 August, Didier Reynders met for the first time with the President of the Commission. The Presidency of the Council of the European Union also provided for the Council to adopt the list of Commissioners in agreement with the President-elect. The hearings will take place between September and October, and the European Parliament should approve the new Commission as a College at its October plenary session. That, Madam Chair, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, is the few elements from which we have considered that a decision should be taken. I would like to add that this decision has been taken in the light of the current affairs circular, which is a very classic circular in our institutional system. On this occasion, we have also taken into account the jurisprudence, in particular of the Council of State, which defines how, on the basis of a particular decision, the question of current affairs should be assessed. It was on the basis of these elements that this proposal was made. Of course, I will not fail to respond to the questions or comments that would be addressed by your committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-08-30-55-commissie-ic005x.u15	I would like to give the floor in chronological order to those Members who have tabled a question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-08-30-55-commissie-ic005x.u16	Prime Minister, I note that the ministers of current affairs are going to be ministers of the case in this country. When Reynders is appointed EU Commissioner, he is already the fourteenth excellence to leave the sinking Belgian ship. He will finally be able to leave after a few unsuccessful attempts. You pointed out that, like all Member States, you were invited to nominate a candidate by 26 August. An invitation is, of course, not an obligation. I doubt it was an urgent decision. A Member State can always leave an EU Commissioner's post temporarily open. That's no problem at all. But even if it was an urgent decision, a government in current cases, which does not have the full power, is obliged to act with the necessary restraint. This restraint means that you support a majority in the Chamber for the nomination. You deliberately refused to consult the Chamber in advance. As soon as the rumors came out that Reynders was a possible candidate, I tabled an oral question, Mr Hedebouw. After all, there can be no interplays aimed at a government in current cases, otherwise I would certainly have done so. The decision was taken without any debate. We are allowed to talk on the subject late in the committee today. Those are figs after Easter. The Chamber was not consulted, but you are talking about informal contacts with political groups in the Chamber of democratic political parties. That's how you put it. I would have liked to have some explanation. Who have you contacted? What were the reactions? You certainly did not find it worth asking the second largest party in this country, the Flemish Interest, for its opinion. I wonder on what basis you, on your own, decide who has been democratically elected or not. I would have liked to know who you were in contact with and what the reactions were. Is it correct to conclude that there was no apparent opposition to Reynder's nomination as EU Commissioner? What's with the contempt for democracy? Why didn't you consult the Chamber in advance? Why are you putting the voters out of play? For us, it is unacceptable that the limited powers of current cases should be extended to help electorally punished boyfriends to a Win for Life. I can only interpret the nomination of outgoing Minister Reynders as EU Commissioner as a middle finger to the Flemish electorate who wants change. Since when is the allocation of top European positions one of the current cases? How do you defend the fact that such a decision could fall within the competence of an outgoing government if the parliamentary basis of that government had not had a majority before the elections and had been reduced much further since the elections? Before the elections, you had 52 of the 150 seats behind your government; today there are only 38 seats left and you continue as if nothing had happened. To restore confidence in politics, that can count. I quote an unsuspecting source, who is certainly not a Flemish Interest. Politicologist Carl Devos was very clear about the presentation: "It's not pretty. It's even embarrassing, horrible, irritating, arrogant and everything in between. The exit from Vice Prime Minister Didier Reynders to the European Commission is a distasteful example of self-service in the Rue de la Loi, which even the most seasoned watchers get the acid. The outgoing federal government has become nothing more or less than a self-service office. One minister after another is going to walk for a better post. Then no one should be surprised that the disgust of politics among the inhabitants of this country grows every day." It does not happen often, Prime Minister, but I fully agree with political scientist Carl Devos on this. I would like to add that it is unacceptable to us that two European top positions should be held in liberal free-trade hands in this way and outside Parliament. You are talking about four major challenges facing the European Union, but then the question arises as to whether Reynders is the best candidate to defend the Flemish interests, especially Flanders, which is affected by the Brexit. And is Reynders the appropriate candidate for enlargement of the European Union, the second challenge you mentioned? I have so often interviewed him in the past legislature so that the accession negotiations with Turkey would finally be stopped, but he was never prepared to have that debate at European level. You also spoke about the financial framework. Again, is Didier Reynders, who has made a fiasco of it as Minister of Finance and who now as an informant can make anyone die that the budgetary situation in this country is bad, for that the great, suitable candidate? That is why I have another question for you, Prime Minister. Can you clarify on the basis of which criteria the government has chosen a candidate? Why does the government only put one candidate forward? I do not know if you consider Open Vld to be a democratic party, but did you not, for example, receive in your contacts the suggestion of rejuvenating and femininity in the candidacy? I hope that the debate will take place today and that you will provide some clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-08-30-55-commissie-ic005x.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, I would suggest that we should be a little bit more concise so that everyone can be covered.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-08-30-55-commissie-ic005x.u18	Minister, thank you for your opening remarks. As you said, a timing is imposed on our country, as is the case with all the Member States, for the appointment of its European Commissioner or its European Commissioner. This timing was imposed by the European Council of Heads of Member States. I guess you've been there. This was to be done on 26 August. We have therefore only been able to act on the appointment of Mr Reynders as a Belgian candidate in the European Commission, which will be led by Mrs von der Leyen, and nothing more. My point is not really about questioning Mr Reynders' ability to perform such a function, but he did not have the profile we supported. We had other candidates for this position as well. This issue of profile is obviously essential. It is for this reason that a series of hearings will be held in the European Parliament, not in the House, because that is the rule: each one's profession. For attending in 2014, I can say that this is not a health walk, since several candidates have been rejected. I guess things will be very difficult this time. The small parliamentary majority that the President-elect has received augurs for enormous work to bring the work of the European Commission and its Commissioners closer to the real social and environmental issues that are of concern to our citizens. We are carrying these challenges at a time when, too often, the European Executive is turning deregulation into a marotte. I stress that my party has always been clear, both at Belgian and European level. If the programme presented by the next European Commission does not break with past policies, we will obviously not support it. Mr Prime Minister, if the appointment of the Belgian candidate falls within the competence of the Executive, given the current political situation, it seems to us important that a debate on the European project take place before such a crucial decision is taken. This would have allowed us to have a clear vision of the European project for which a majority would be defined in this House renewed last May. I think that a substantive debate on Europe is more than important. Can you tell us what Didier Reynders is going to do in this new European Commission, for example, to put in place a real European social pillar, to revive the economy and put an end to blind austerity, to put an end to social and fiscal dumping, to fight global warming and pollution, to protect our economies and jobs, rather than embarking on free trade adventures at all costs, to really defend and enforce European values, for the European structural funds that Wallonia and Brussels absolutely need? In short, a series of key issues are at stake and there is a lack of substantive debate. This lack too often feeds and reinforces populism and the feeling of a Europe far removed from the concerns of Europeans. To be quite honest, when we know the current slippage of our budget and when we have to present a budget project to Europe in two months' time, I really ask myself a lot of questions about Belgium's position and what we want within the European Union in relation to the fight against tax evasion or tax evasion by multinationals and the richest. Like me, you know that the scandals in this area have sprung up in the last European Parliament. And even though the Commission and, above all, Parliament have proposed many ambitious reforms, it cannot be said that Belgium has been a very good student, particularly with regard to the Country-by-Country Reporting Directive on tax transparency, since at European level it is EUR 1000 billion in tax evasion, of which EUR 30 billion is for Belgium. However, the previous government only brought 900 million euros into the coffers. A debate on Didier Reynders' vision in this Commission of the Twenty-Seven would therefore have been essential. And it is precisely, Mr Prime Minister, because at Belgian level we can influence the decisions our Commissioner will take in this new European Commission that I think we must stop working as a "black box" within the government in this area, even if it is a non-majority government. It is because each Member State proposes its Commissioner that it is essential to know what the Belgian representative in the Commission intends to defend as a European policy. Prime Minister, you talked about Article 17 or Article 245 of the Treaty on European Union. You also know that Article 12 of this Treaty provides that national parliaments actively contribute to the proper functioning of the Union. In this respect, political dialogue is being discussed, i.e. the European Commission submits all draft European legislation and other important documents to national parliaments so that they can play an active and constructive role in the Commission's policy. As I have to be brief, I am closing my speech, Madam Chair. Since we have missed the preliminary discussions on this subject, it is necessary – as was the case during the former legislature where more than once, the Belgian Commissioner, Marianne Thyssen, and others (Francs Timmermans, Pierre Moscovici, etc.) have come to this Parliament – try to restate this designation by having a real substantive debate on Belgium's objectives vis-à-vis the European Union. This is what all Belgians and citizens of the European Union want.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-08-30-55-commissie-ic005x.u19	It is now up to the political groups. I shall first give the floor to Mrs Van Bossuyt of the N-VA Group.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-08-30-55-commissie-ic005x.u20	Madam President, Prime Minister, first of all I would like to point out that we do not oppose Didier Reynders himself. I think he's got a lot of skills. What we particularly dislike is the lack of transparency in the way we work and the lack of involvement of Parliament in this process. Technically, a minority government can indeed make a speech, but we are in a very special situation here. The government of current affairs represents 38 out of 150 seats in this Parliament. Successive governments have failed to elaborate a procedure on how the nomination of a candidate for the role of European Commissioner could take place in the case of a government of current affairs. It is the tradition that this happens in the light of the ongoing negotiations without compromising the future coalition. However, it speaks of a lack of democratic decency not to involve Parliament at all. Prime Minister, I think you missed a chance here. You just gave me a short timeline. On July 19th, you were asked to apply. I think this gave us enough time to consult Parliament in the meantime. You have fully drawn this file to you. This is a missed opportunity to give the presentation the highest possible legitimacy. We are now in a situation in which Mr Reynder's presentation is accompanied by a hint of conflict of interest and back room politics. If you had come to Parliament, you might have found a majority, which would have brought that candidacy to the European stage with much more legitimacy. This would have benefited both Mr Reynders and yourself. After all, we have heard that you too are becoming active on the European stage. This could have been avoided, Prime Minister. So it's a missed opportunity. We are here today, but we are faced with a fact. Although our President refers to this as an exchange of views, it is actually about the presentation of an accomplished fact. That is somewhat pointless and even humiliating for Parliament. The decision has been made. The first contacts between Mr Reynders and the future President of the Commission have already taken place. We would have liked to have seen this procedure run in a different way. Today's sitting is actually intended to link a sign of parliamentary involvement to the fact that it has been achieved. In future, if the government is still in such situations, we want Parliament to be consulted before a final decision is taken. In this way, the Committee on External Relations can also hear potential candidates. In addition, there is a second element. The cases on which the European Commission decides may well be referred to as an exclusive federal competence. That is why we would like the Land governments to be involved in such decisions in the future. We are in favour of a federal decision-making process in this area. To this end, the necessary bodies already exist, for example the Consultative Committee. Prime Minister, we also have a few specific questions for you. When was that final decision taken? How often has this been discussed within your current minority government? You say that you have contacted the democratic parties. Why did you never consider informing Parliament as a whole? A certain not insignificant element, future Commission President von der Leyen himself asked for both a male and a female candidate to be presented. You seem to have chosen very explicitly to put only a male candidate forward. Could you elaborate on that decision? Finally, the minority government likes to broadcast its sons, especially to the European stage. How do you expect to continue to function despite your ever-decreasing legitimacy during the current period?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-08-30-55-commissie-ic005x.u21	Mr Gilkinet has the floor on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-08-30-55-commissie-ic005x.u22	Prime Minister, the process that led to the appointment of Mr Reynders as a candidate European Commissioner is not satisfactory. Today's debate is too late. You did not suspend the federal Parliament, but you acted as if it did not exist. Of course, there were deadlines, but they had been known since July 19. We were at your disposal from that date. Of course, you are still at the head of the Executive, but I must not remind you that the Executive is resigning in day-to-day affairs and, following the elections on 25 May, very minority: a clear signal was given by our fellow citizens. In this context, it was politically necessary to involve Parliament more closely in your choices. The choice of person, because appointing a particular personality at the level of the European Executive will obviously have an impact on the policy to be carried out there, even if it will have to be addressed to all European citizens. The choice of competences, too, which we have not yet discussed today, and I would like to return to that. But also and above all, Belgium's priorities for Europe. We asked for this debate in a non-suspecting time. We regret that this request has not been heard, that you preferred the passage into force, which, by the way, has led to a form of monopoly of European representation for your political formation. It is too easy for your government to appeal to Parliament when it needs it – to vote on the provisional twelfths – and ignore it for such important choices. The debate turned to the struggle for seats. Various names were cited: Mr Peeters, Mrs Rutten, Mr Reynders, Mrs Onkelinx. What interests ecologists is to know the content of the mandate. What does Belgium want for tomorrow's Europe? If it is the appointment of the Commissioner in non-transparent processes that the European debate is to be summed up, it is not surprising that the citizen of the European Union rejects it, when it has a major role to play from a democratic point of view for tomorrow, that it is in crisis and that many things are to be achieved. I repeat, in view of the exceptional political circumstances that we are experiencing, what we were asking for was a preliminary debate about our wishes for Belgium and Europe. The priority is obviously energy and climate. How will we collectively get out of nuclear power and meet the objectives we adopted at the Paris COP21? How will we create the thousands of jobs associated with this energy transition? How will we manage the migration issue in an adult, responsible and effective manner, review the Dublin Rules, better allocate the effort to prevent migration, but also manage it when it occurs? Will we be a driving force for a tax disarmament treaty that will put an end to tax dumping, which is causing enormous damage to both our economy and the public finances of all States? Will a coordinated plan to combat tax evasion be implemented? Public finances can no longer see that tens of billions of euros escape tax for the benefit of the richest, multinationals and to the detriment of workers. Will we be working on a review of European budgetary rules to leave room for useful investments, investments in energy transition, social cohesion, education? Will we finally take strong environmental measures, particularly with regard to product standards? Will Europe be the driving force behind non-reusable plastic stop, environmentally and health-threatening products? How will we improve the democratic functioning and transparency of the Union and put an end to the influence of many often harmful lobbyists? These are all themes, Prime Minister, which we would have liked to discuss. Indeed, the moment we are experiencing with the constitution of a new European Commission, the appointment of a new President of the Council, the election of the European Parliament and the debate to question all the candidate Commissioners, a debate in which, by the way, ecologists from all the countries of Europe will play an active role – and that is how it is – is the right time to give inflection to the fundamental political choices of the European Union. This opportunity, this very necessity, has been missed. Unfortunately, pending the formation of a federal government, we still have to hold you to account and try to guide what can still be. I would like answers to a few questions, some of which have already been asked. So, in relation to all the priorities I have just mentioned – they may not be yours but they are, in any case, those of the ecologists – what are you going to implement, while you remain in office, so that Belgium can count on the European debate and move Europe towards something more positive? In relation to these issues, how do you feel that Mr. Reynders' candidacy is the best? What about the question raised very precisely by the future President of the Commission as to the parity of that Commission? Why has not a double list with a candidate and a European Commissioner been introduced as requested? What powers have been claimed as a Belgian State? Has this dialogue been initiated? You sign that no and you let the President of the Commission decide. In any case, I note that other European countries are more active and clearer about their expectations. If you had told me that Belgium was claiming climate and energy policy to play an accelerator role in transition, if you had told me that Mr Moscovici's place was being claimed in order to speed up tax coordination between the states, I would have told you that this was an interesting step. I will allow myself to ask more about internal policy, Madam Chair, but I am almost done with it. What will be the timetable for your replacement and that of Mr Reynders? How will you, in the meantime, assume your responsibilities? We have, for example, questions to ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs. Is it still available to Parliament? Does it continue to work? Is he already a commissioner? For the future and until your replacement as part of a federal government, what guarantees can you provide that Parliament will be more involved in the short-term policy choices that will be made in terms of both international and national policy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-08-30-55-commissie-ic005x.u23	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, according to the Treaty of Lisbon and according to the legal provisions applied today, each Member State of the European Union has a European Commissioner within the Commission. Article 9d of the Lisbon Treaty lays down European legal rules for Member States. I would like to recall some of them that I think are important to this debate, and not exhaustively. The first is: "Members of the Commission shall be chosen on the basis of their general competence and European commitment and from persons of full independence". From Jean Rey to Marianne Thyssen and many other European Commissioners, Belgium has always nominated candidates from the political world, with the exception, as you know, of Etienne Davignon, who came from the diplomatic career. This will also be the case for Didier Reynders, Member of Parliament since 1992, who has held the positions of Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance, Minister of Foreign Affairs and Minister of Defence since 1999. Undoubtedly, Prime Minister, your government's choice is based on these principles: competence, European commitment and independence. A second European legal rule for Member States is that, except for the High Representative, "Members of the Commission shall neither seek nor accept instructions from any government, institution, body or body." You called him back. We are therefore not meeting here in the Committee on External Relations to draw up or adopt a road map to be followed by Mr Reynders from 1 November. It will represent within the European Commission, not the interests of Belgians or the Belgian government, but the general interest of the Union, as underlined in Article 9d of the Lisbon Treaty. Didier Reynders will not represent Belgium in the European Commission, as I have read here and there. Let us not confuse the functions and the European institutions. It is not up to us to define a political line for him, as I hear. This will be the case for a new Belgian government based on a new government agreement within the European Council and specialised councils. These, ladies and gentlemen, are the rules I wanted to remind you of. Madam President, Belgium therefore had to appoint its national as a Member of the Commission and the European Council had set 26 August as the final date for the receipt of the applications. As the Prime Minister mentioned, this date has been reminded of Member States by the Finnish Presidency. Mrs von der Leyen is responsible for the internal organisation of the College: appointment of Vice-Presidents, allocation of portfolios, requests for resignation in particular circumstances. It has two months to carry out this task through formal consultations which it has begun this week, through hearings before the specialised committees of the European Parliament, which will take place in early October, and through a global vote in the European Parliament on the whole Commission to be held on 23 October. All this, for entry into office on 1 November according to Article 17 of the Treaty of the European Union. To date, after a somewhat late appointment of France on Wednesday, only Italy has not nominated a candidate – let alone the thorny British question. We know the specific political situations of these two countries. We therefore had to appoint the Belgian member of the future European Commission for 26 August and position ourselves diplomatically in order to obtain skills that could bring real added value to the European Union. It is, of course, up to the federal government alone to carry out this task, without the intervention of the legislative power, neither a priori nor a posteriori. We can regret it. As a Member of Parliament, I'll give it to you. But today, political custom is that. Prime Minister, your government is in day-to-day business, like any government following the elections, waiting for a new majority and a new executive. Do we now have written rules, codification, strict and clear legislation determining what a government can do in its day-to-day affairs, even if it is a minority? The answer is clear: no! In fact, from the political world to the academic world, each of you has seen this in the last few weeks: we are talking about its interpretation, about its commentary, but with a customary basis – and this is the important one. This appointment of Didier Reynders as Belgian candidate for the post of European Commissioner is part of the concept of current affairs on the grounds of its imperative necessity for the interests of the Belgian State and the urgency in this matter. It is a question of credibility, ladies and gentlemen, for our country to respond to the requests of European bodies in a timely manner. That, in the eyes of my group, is the reform movement, the answer to the questions of each other. I am confident that this choice is the best possible, Prime Minister, and that you have respected existing customs and customs in your government.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-08-30-55-commissie-ic005x.u24	Mr Prime Minister, I was pleased that in the introduction to your speech you started with the challenges facing Europe and highlighting the importance of the nomination of a Belgian candidate for the European Commission. I do not want to minimize that at all, quite the contrary. As important as the composition of the future European Commission is, what it is going to do is even more important. People are undoubtedly concerned about the composition of that Commission, but even more they are concerned about what it is going to do. The inhabitants of our country, but above all the employers and their employees, who are trading with Britain, are concerned about what is to happen. That seems to me to be extremely important. Prime Minister, it is a good thing you started that. It would be a good thing if we could also discuss with your government in this House, in this committee, over the next few weeks, and I would like to address Madam President-in-Office, and possibly other challenges of Europe. When I looked at everything that passed through the media last week, it reminded me of a statement by an important Flemish party chairman following the CETA Treaty: "Politics is bad theatre with brilliant actors." That's what I've been thinking about the last week. Prime Minister, the reality is as you have described it, and I leave it in the middle of the last week if there was bad theatre with beautiful actors, but I did not think the scenario was brilliant. In any case, since 16 July, it has been established that a President of the European Commission has been appointed with the consent of the European Parliament. Its mission was to work together with the Member States, including the Belgian Government, to create a new European Commission. Colleagues, that's not new. We decided here in July 2012 to organise European elections together with federal elections. In the meantime, we know that for more than seven years. We knew that in 2012, two years before we proposed a European Commissioner, and we now know that seven years before we proposed someone. We knew that. The then Chambers knew that, just like the present ones, by the way. At that time, or immediately after our oath, we had been free to decide in the Chamber's Rules of Procedure how we wished to involve ourselves in this procedure. At that time, moreover, the European Parliament demanded this from the European Commission at the time. We could have done this. We could have arranged this for a period of seven years. However, ladies and gentlemen, we did not do this. I have heard two arguments. First of all, this government is resigning. In the current Belgian federal context, where European elections are held at the same time as the federal elections, I fear that we will often be faced with a resignation government which will have to proceed with such a nomination. Colleagues, we do not need our test piece in this respect. In 2014 this happened a first time. How did that happen? There were parties negotiating the composition of a new government. They have made agreements and the then resigning government has had the loyalty to formalize those agreements. I did not hear certain political formations shouting and screaming that Parliament was not involved in the procedure, when they are doing so now. I think that's quite striking. Colleagues, as long as the European and federal elections coincide, there will be a very good chance that a resignation government will have to do so. That resigning Prime Minister will always be heard in this Chamber. You, Prime Minister, are now being heard because you were not on time with that speech or because you have identified someone with whom at least a few groups are not happy. I have heard a second argument, in particular that the outgoing government is a minority government. Colleagues, whether or not a government resigns has a majority, is less relevant. The powers of a resignationing government are limited, but they are not limited when it comes to pressing issues such as this matter. The opposition in a Parliament is stronger with regard to a government in current cases that does not have a majority. That opposition could have taken the necessary initiatives perfectly from the day of the swearing-in. This did not happen, the first questions were asked only a few days ago. In doing so, I have outlined the context. An election result can ensure that, although a majority government has a majority in Parliament, it is totally unconnected, making it a de facto minority government. The opposite could also be the case for a minority government. Leaving that in the middle, I do think it is important that consultations take place in a context such as this. The current government is resigning and has only limited representation in the Chamber. But even apart from the current low level of representation, I think it is logical that the Prime Minister of a government that resigns should contact the democratic parties for such decisions, whether or not they are members of that government. Prime Minister, I have read your Belga message and I assumed that. You've confirmed it here, too. In my opinion, it is not customary in Belgian politics for informal contacts to be made public. However, when the accusation arises that no contacts have taken place, I do believe that you have the right to clarify and report to whom you have contacted. It also seems to me to be logical that this is not just the responsibility of the Prime Minister, but also of all the chairmen of political parties, who in turn can take the initiative to contact the Prime Minister and their fellow presidents. Ladies and gentlemen, I assume, as I have been informed, that this is how it happened. The opposite would have been abnormal. Last week, I read in the newspaper that Mr De Roover formally said that this was a mistake. My answer to that is that it was informally completely correct. No Flemish candidate has been nominated. I have just referred to the Court's responsibility in this matter, for seven years. It is also a responsibility that belongs to all Flemish parties. After all, if we could have reached a consensus on a Flemish candidate, we would have been stronger with the French-speaking colleagues to try to enforce that candidacy. For a piece it is therefore our own responsibility. It is essential that the proposed candidate serves European interests first and foremost. European interests also concern all Belgians, and therefore all Flemings. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand, of course, the sensitivity of this House to want to be more involved in a nomination by a European Commissioner. I have just pointed out that we can do that ourselves. I therefore believe that we should do so ourselves in the future. Let us therefore draw positive lessons from this saga and assume our own responsibilities in this matter. I think it is important that there is a preliminary discussion with Parliament. As far as I am concerned, when the government decides whether or not to propose it, there may be consultations on the matter. There is, of course, one context: the government is proposing, the President of the European Commission is proposing to the European Parliament and the European Parliament is going to vote. However, this does not prevent us from involving ourselves in this. I have learned lessons from the events of the last two weeks and I will therefore table a proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure in the coming weeks. We can agree on the procedure for a government to come to the Chamber a certain period before a nomination has to be made and for us to have a debate on this with it. There will then be a debate before and after, but that will of course not affect the prerogatives of the executive to make that nomination. We will not be able to prevent that. Colleagues, when it comes to an appointment, whether it is a European Commissioner, a minister or a top official, then my experience in politics teaches me that it is always a bumblebee. After all, there will always be satisfaction and others will be less satisfied because they feel passed. Then it is logical that we should have a debate on this and have formal or informal contacts. Personally, I also think it is logical that the formal talks should be coherent with the informal contacts. I am concerned about these European challenges and the Brexit. A lot of people do that with us. However, I am even more concerned. The elections are now over for three months. Holiday's over. Let's stop the campaign. Let's talk informally and then formally. Firstly, that is the responsibility of all of us, but even more of the groups that are the largest. French or Dutch, I do not make any distinction in this respect. The Belgians are interested in the Commissioner's nomination for the European Commission, but their patience is gradually running out for the delay in the composition of a federal government with full authority, and we also have the fullness of parliamentary control, by all means and not by limited means, as is the case today. That seems much more important to me. Colleagues, let us look for what binds us instead of discussing what separates us. It's about time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-08-30-55-commissie-ic005x.u25	Madam Chair, Prime Minister, the appointment of Mr. Reynders has generated a lot of reaction. For my part, it's astonishment. I am surprised to see that the MR, a party that, like the other traditional parties, was sanctioned on 26 May 2019 – gets two high-profile European posts. On 26 May, the people voted against your liberal policy, your austerity policy, which is fully in line with the policy imposed by the European Commission. This policy has serious consequences for our society. It is all the dismantling of public services, their privatization. It is the dismantling of our social security and pensions. And what is your response to this vote? You say, "Circulate! There's nothing to do with it. We're going to go on exactly as before." You are sending Mr Reynders, who is the very embodiment of this liberal policy, as representative of Belgium to the European Commission. You laugh in the face of the people who voted on May 26, 2019. I would also point out that Mr Reynders, who will represent our country, has been involved in a number of cases, including conflicts of interest. In 1999, Mr. Reynders had already begun his mandate as Minister of Finance with a serious conflict of interest. The European Commission had condemned the Belgian tax system of the coordination centres, which allowed the internal banks of two hundred multinationals to pay less than one euro of tax. Mr Reynders, however, turned around like a devil, putting himself at the service of these multinationals, to overturn the European decision. And he carefully failed to report that he was being paid by one of those multinationals. In fact, from 1999 to 2001, Didier Reynders was himself administrator of the coordination centre of the Carmelite group, the multinational of his friend Baron Collinet. We are sending a European Commissioner who has worked hard to go against the directives of the European Commission. That's pretty funny! I am also surprised by the reaction of some left-wing parties. I read that Mr Reynders is expected to pursue left-wing politics as well. We hope there's a check. For me, it's naivety. We forget who Mr. Reynders is. Mr Reynders is the father of the notional interests which cost the state 40 billion euros over ten years. Of course, this cost has been passed on to workers by means of taxes and dismantling of public services. That's what Mr Reynders is sending to Europe! I am speaking here to the members present in the Chamber. Does anyone here really think that Mr Reynders will lead a left-wing political atom to the European Commission? If I asked him the question directly, I think he'd laugh at me and say, "Always dream!" Some parties, including the PS, are talking about restivising the appointment of Mr Reynders. But what does it mean to rest? Mr Reynders will not do anything other than what he has done for twenty years here in Belgium. It will not promote a policy other than a liberal policy at the service of multinationals and the rich. It's the only thing he knows how to do, because it's part of his political DNA. He won't do anything else. If you have the illusion that we can have an impact on its European policy, you will be fooling yourself. It seems to me that the representative of the MR recalled this very well: we do not have the competence to impose anything on him. This means that he will always do what he has done, that is, pursue a liberal policy, a policy of austerity. The Belgians voted against this kind of policy on 26 May and you continue, despite everything, as if nothing had happened. Prime Minister, I would like to ask you a few questions, starting with a question that has already been asked several times, which demonstrates its importance. I hope to receive a clear answer. Have you met with representatives of opposition parties or other parties to rule in favour of Mr Reynders? If so, which ones? Have you met parties like the PS, the CD&V; the Open Vld, the N-VA or Ecolo-Groen? My question is what these informal contacts were. Do you confirm, as the press has indicated, that Mr Reynders has used his mission as an informant more to promote his candidacy for the post of European Commissioner than to find a coalition? Have you received any nominations other than that of Mr Reynders from other parties? If so, which ones? On the conflict of interest that I mention, while he was the administrator of the Carmeuse Coordination Centre, do you find it appropriate to appoint a candidate for the post of Commissioner, a minister who has committed a serious act of conflict of interest while countering a decision of the European Commission? And more generally, do you consider it wise to support the candidacy of a former Finance Minister who has made his Belgium a tax haven that has a serious negative impact on European tax integration? Are you not afraid that, during his possible term as European Commissioner, Mr Reynders will be caught up in one of the many cases in which he was quoted and that this will harm Belgium's image? Prime Minister, I would like to receive answers to these issues, particularly those of the parties with which you have contacted for the appointment of Mr. Reynders and the agreements that presided over his appointment. If an informal agreement between traditional parties has been reached, I would remind you that the citizens were clear about this on 26 May: they no longer want this policy. It would be time to be transparent in that regard.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-08-30-55-commissie-ic005x.u26	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps I will be a bit of a break in style, because I will be brief. I won't hang too many curls and chops on it. I think we all have more important things to do at the moment. I would like to listen to the President's call for more attention to be paid to the content of our work. That is why I shall confine myself to two matters, perhaps two and a half. What has struck me as a newcomer over the last few weeks is that we are increasingly hearing the Commissioner's job as a gift, a Win for Life, which is granted to a friend or a knowledge, which is being handed out, even here today, even though it is a job for which very high competences are required and in which high demands are placed on who takes on this task. I think, and with me many others, that Mr Reynders has all these competences. He's got the skills. Friend and enemy present here cannot deny his skills and knowledge. That's very clear. Madam President, that is the essence. He's got the right profile. That is why my group supports the government's decision in current cases to propose Didier Reynders as a candidate. What else should we have done anyway? Don't send anyone? Mrs Pas, I am happy to hear you say it, but we would like to have someone in Europe to talk along for Belgium. Sending someone ad interim doesn't strike me as a good option either. Let's just look at Mr. Reynder's profile. He has many years of experience on the European and international scene. He's a man of diplomacy. I think that, in these turbulent times, Europe can absolutely use someone like that. He believes in a strong and decisive Europe, which is also important for a Commissioner. For many years, he has been calling for greater control of human rights and democracy in the Member States. That is very close to my heart, because women are also human beings. He's gonna stand up for women's rights, too. That brings me to that half-dot, in particular whether a female candidate should have been nominated. Well, the blue fraction had a shortage of men. Of the five Commissioners nominated in the blue group, four are currently women. France, Estonia, the Czech Republic and Denmark have nominated a woman. Does that make Mr. Reynders our excuse? I also support Mr Verherstraeten's call for our responsibility to be taken into account in our own files and to focus our attention as soon as possible on the formation of a federal government. The elections are over for three months. If we do not want to continue to feed anti-politics and restore confidence in politics, then the formation of a federal government is much more essential than a debate on a dossier in which no structural error has been made.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-08-30-55-commissie-ic005x.u27	Prime Minister, like many others, we are not satisfied with the way in which Mr Reynder has been proposed as Commissioner-designate. Moreover, we do not agree with the appointment of President-designate von der Leyen in recent months. After all, a call for greater transparency and democratic legitimacy was the great signal from the electorate in the wake of the European elections. We regret that this signal was not respected. We therefore support the proposals and pleas put forward here to adapt the procedures, to ensure greater transparency and more democratic legitimacy. More fundamentally, the question arises as to what European project the European Commission will implement in terms of content. Mrs von der Leyen had a strong discussion in the European Parliament with the various groups. As a result, it has made a very explicit commitment to realising our proposals for a more social, sustainable and democratic Europe. I am thinking, for example, of the European Green Deal with a European climate law, a fair minimum wage for every worker in Europe, fiscal justice, a more effective approach to discrimination and better protection of our rule of law. That is all in her mission statement about a Union that raises the bar. We'll hold her to that. Of course, Prime Minister, we are wondering to what extent you and Commissioner-designate Reynders effectively support von der Leyen's project to raise social and environmental standards. As far as gender equality is concerned, you have already ignored her very justified appeal by not presenting a female fellow candidate, which we deeply regret. You really missed a chance to be on the right side of history in that respect. Even if we look at your government policy, our country has in recent years been putting a brake on climate and fiscal justice. Your policy is at odds with von der Leyen's higher ambitions. In her mission statement, Von der Leyen specifically said that tax competition must stop. It indicated its intention to address tax avoidance mechanisms. In recent years, our country has shone in its absence or in its opposition. In fact, the government made it clear that tax competition is preferable to international cooperation and harmonisation. The question is therefore whether candidate Reynders will now be a pioneer in fair taxation or whether he will be put back on the brakes? In all honesty, when we look at the government's policies of recent years, we fear the latter. The same applies to climate policy. Von der Leyen really wants the bar higher in that area. It wants to make Europe the first climate-neutral continent and, quite rightly, it sees it as the greatest challenge, but at the same time the greatest opportunity for our time. Prime Minister, in general you do not shy away from the big words on the international stage. You have also severely condemned foreign leaders such as Trump, but if you look at your policy, we have not noticed much about these climate ambitions. Our country will not meet the 2020 targets, and our country has also been at odds in recent years when it comes to increasing its ambitions. Minister Marghem has even done it to plead for a reduction in the bar for Belgium. This again runs counter to Ursula von der Leyen's ambitions. In view of the wide gap between your policy and von der Leyen's ambitions, the question arises as to the concrete commitment of our country to the realisation of the European project. Prime Minister, will our country accept von der Leyen's proposals for a more social, sustainable and democratic Europe? Will you fully support her in that regard? If you say yes to this today, I would like to know why you have not done so in previous years. Why didn't you send a female fellow candidate? There are a lot of competent women in our country. How is it that you have not taken any responsibility in this area and then have to refer to the other European Liberal colleagues, who have responded to von der Leyen's appeal? Finally, we do not know what powers candidate Commissioner Reynders can have. Nor do we know what lines of substance will be set out. In addition to the discussion on improving the procedures for the appointment of Commissioners, I would like to call for a feedback of substance in Parliament right now, so that we can discuss on the substance of the project which will be rolled out in the coming years. I look forward to your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-08-30-55-commissie-ic005x.u28	Prime Minister, I will be brief. Should someone be appointed and respond to Ursula von der Leyen's invitation in time? Yes, of course! It was important. All those who say here that we have time are trying to weaken the image of Belgium – I am not surprised by the Vlaams Belang – or are trying to weaken the European institutions. I am not surprised either by some parties. This invitation had to be responded to in due course. It was about the credibility of our country and our European mission. Was the government perfectly legitimate? No, of course not! It was a problem. It was a problem. Was there a plan B? I hear some parties say that we need a Dutch speaker, others that we need a socialist, others that we need an environmentalist. We can imagine the debate that could have taken place in Parliament! I don't think we should add disorder to disorder. It was not Parliament's responsibility to nominate a candidate to the European Commission, it is a prerogative of the Executive. I have appreciated Mr Verherstraeten's speech, which proposes that in the future we take better account of the fact that elections are being held at the same time and that we will have difficulties systematically. For me, there were no alternatives other than to act as the Prime Minister did, namely to consult each other and to verify that we had a candidate who was in a position to be sent to the European Commission by Belgium. Is he going to do the job? I don't think anyone is challenging the political experience of the nominee, even if that's probably not the choice I would have made. Are European debates urgent and important? Yes, of course! We know how much Brexit, for example, poses a threat to the entire European Union. Let us accept that convening the Committee on External Relations in August on European issues was feasible! But I have not always felt a passion for Europe in the opinion committee on European issues. We were not always there to discuss it. I hope that this is a signal for the future because, indeed, a whole series of extremely important debates are taking place at the level of the Council of the European Union – and I am pleased that it is a Belgian who represents us in its presidency – and at the level of the European Commission. We need to try to influence European policies, but let us be careful, we could have had this debate well ahead of us! We'll have some. In particular, it will be important for us to quickly discuss the consequences of Brexit for our country. That seems to me to be the very obvious. I understand that the interests of Belgium must be defended. Absolutely not! Is there a need for a politically balanced European Commission? Of course. I saw and heard the cartoons that were made when Ursula von der Leyen was appointed. The European Commission that Ursula von der Leyen is called upon to preside over is more balanced than that of Jean-Claude Juncker. For the moment, the socialist family has more representatives than the EPP. The Liberals have five representatives. For the first time, there is even a green representative. The new President's request for parity at the level of the European Commission will, I hope, be honoured. It is true that it would have been elegant for Belgium to nominate two candidates, one of whom would have been a woman. In any event, I hope that Mrs Ursula von der Leyen will be satisfied with the way in which parity can be established. I also hope that there will be a debate at European Parliament level – most of us will be represented – to find out what the future European Commission's climate, social, economic, fiscal and migration policy will be. The first accents which appear to be put by Mrs von der Leyen are rather encouraging, positive. I think this is a new ambition. On the part of a country with a European ambition, it is above all and once again a matter of ensuring that the European institutions are consolidated, that they operate, that they are there in time and time and that there is indeed room for debate on the substance. That, in my view, is what Belgium must try to achieve! Prime Minister, I would like to ask you a question. Indeed, we can see that a whole series of personalities are leaving the government and I have concerns about our ability to deal with the issues we face. Today we are experiencing a political crisis with a widely shared responsibility. Let's be good at it! I understand that the new Commission will be set up on 1 November. I'd like to know the schedule. I would like to know if the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Defence will be in office until then, and when the changes will be made. I am thinking in particular of your position. How are things going to happen? I would like to be reassured as to how Belgium can assume its responsibilities. We know that we must present a European budget in the coming weeks. This is an extremely important exercise. Our country should not be discredited again. How do things stand at this level?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-08-30-55-commissie-ic005x.u29	Madam President, Prime Minister, let's go straight to the point! The problem we are dealing with today does not, in fact, concern the person and qualities of Mr Reynders. Practically everyone acknowledges that he has the necessary skill and skill to be the Belgian member of the European Commission. Contrary to what some of my colleagues think, this debate does not concern either the road map or the European priorities of Mr Reynders as Commissioner. Its mission concerns the European Commission and the European Parliament, not the Federal Parliament. The federal Parliament, on the other hand, is the total lack of respect for parliamentary representation by a government in day-to-day, ultra-minoritarian affairs, which, in our view, has clearly abused the concept of day-to-day and emergency affairs. This government has no legitimacy. He is in day-to-day business and has only 38 seats out of 150. It is not just a question of law, it is also a question of good governance or even simply of democratic elegance. Not so long ago, Prime Minister, you were eager to ask for the support of Parliament when your government was not in a position to decide. Last December, you didn't have a majority because the N-VA was gone. You wanted to sign the migration pact in Marrakech and you were right. At that time, strangely, you remembered that there was a federal Parliament. You have asked for his confidence in the form of a resolution allowing you to sign this text. This support has been given to you. We will have to explain why the political situation at the time made it necessary to ask for Parliament's permission to sign a non-binding international text in December and why, a few months later, in the torpor of August, discreetly, you felt allowed to make such an important decision as the appointment of a candidate Commissioner by simply exchanging e-mails with your colleagues. You did not involve, warn or associate Parliament at any time, when in the meantime the government had lost the elections, its majority and its ability to act. I admit to being a bit stunned about hearing you say, "There are not so many problems, because you've made calls to some party presidents." Not all of them, I think, and a priori, not mine. It seems a little light to me to bypass parliamentary representation. That is what our citizens no longer stand for. It is this victory of the party over parliamentary representation. Of course, the magic formula of the emergency exists. You are, of course, aware of the Council of State's ruling, which states: "The urgency must be such that the failure to adopt the measure poses a serious danger or damage to the fundamental interests of the country." With all the real esteem I have for Mr Reynders, I do not see very well how a little delay or the appointment of someone else as Commissioner, in other circumstances, could have caused irreparable harm to our country. At worst, we would have been the last country to appoint a commissioner. Secondly, it is difficult to invoke urgency when one has participated in the creation of it. The government did. It's his find to bypass our assembly. If you want a case to become urgent, it's simple, don't do anything! Let him simmer! Then, at midnight minus five, call for urgency! With this reasoning, any file can become urgent. It has been three months since the elections were held and it has been three months since everyone knows that there will be no federal government on August 26. It has also been three months since the agenda depended in part on a duo of royal informants, in which the main interested person sits. There was therefore a way to do a lot of things: to propose to Parliament a debate, to propose a candidate from civil society, perhaps even to propose Mr Reynders' candidacy in this Parliament! This Parliament has indeed elected Mr Dewael as President! We're not closed, we can talk. In any event, however, Parliament's invitation to ratify Mr Reynders' appointment, having regard to the minority nature of the government, would have been fully justified and, in any case, there is no justification for a decision of such importance to be taken by e-mail on a Saturday afternoon following a telephone call to several party presidents and by dispatching a Belga dispatch on Saturday evening at 9 p.m. You have clearly short-circuited Parliament. Honestly, you're not going to ask us to thank you anymore! Finally, of course, we must move forward! Yes, in our view, the House should have been convened in plenary after the federal government's deliberations to ratify, by a vote of confidence, the appointment of Mr. Reynders. It seems to me that we are facing a form of deal that short-circuits parliamentary representation. No, there was no urgency except to consider that failing to disclose the name of a candidate for the position of Commissioner before August 26 would have caused irremediable harm to the interests of the country. I don't see how this is proven. Of course, we are faced with the fait accompli! We are not going to add chaos to chaos. But this raises a real question that has not been so addressed to you, Prime Minister, since, like Mr Reynders, you have almost already left. Soon you will let us deal with this inextricable political situation, this ungovernable country, these public finances in the red and this surge of extremist votes which are also partly your legacy and which will soon be no longer your problem. But the question is for us for the future. How can we prevent future abuse of the concept of day-to-day business and emergency by another government? How can we ensure that this Parliament is better respected? I believe it is these issues that will have to deal with us in the coming months, given the chronic instability of our country. For our part, and with the groups we are interested in, we will work on legislative initiatives to clarify these concepts of day-to-day business and urgency and to allow Parliament to be more respected.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-08-30-55-commissie-ic005x.u30	Thank you very much for the different points of view that have been expressed. I will try to gather the various comments or observations, to give some reactions. Mr Verherstraeten has given an important message about the procedure, a reasoning which I share 100%. Over the last seven years, the federal and European elections have been linked, and hence the formation of the European Commission. We also know that there is a chance in Belgium that a government in Parliament may have power without the full support of a majority. We knew that we could potentially face such a situation. So this is not new information. What was the situation in July? In the course of time, this is important. We had to wait for the vote in the European Parliament. There was no certainty about that. By the way, it is known that there was only a narrow majority. Only then did the procedure for the composition of the Commission start with the official letter on 19 July. In Mrs von der Leyen's official letter to the federal government, there was no question of two candidates. There was, however, a plea for a joint committee. Last time, Belgium sent a female candidate, Marianne Thyssen. Not only Belgium has proposed just one name. Only two countries gave two names, with only one name remaining for one of the two in the last. Only two out of the twenty-seven countries (Great Britain having not indicated a name) have submitted two applications. Belgium's position is therefore not extravagant in this respect. As far as the procedure is concerned: the last intervention in connection with the current affairs made me smile. When you are pro-European, as you claim to be dear Mr De Smet, you are consistent and try to be consistent. Scanning the deadline of 26 August is to forget in practice that its non-compliance would cause serious damage to Belgium in terms of image and credibility for a founding country of the European Union. It also means forgetting the risk, if one were to wait for a training process – I will return to it – which for the moment has not yet started, that there is a legal problem that is being asked, a question that is open to the legitimacy of the European Commission and its capacity in November to be operational and legally composed on the basis of the Treaties. Mr De Smet, democracy, these are values: the rule of law, human rights, fundamental principles that we all care about. Democracy is also – as Amartya Sen says – procedures, institutions, treaties. It is important to respect the treaties, that is to say credibility, and that is why I acted as prime minister in day-to-day affairs, aware of the limitations of day-to-day affairs: I have considered with the government in day-to-day affairs and after making contacts, it is true, informally – for let us be serious: if there had been a debate here to nominate a candidate, we know how this debate would have gone and how probably it would have been impossible to honour that date on 26 August – with the representatives of the democratic parties that make up recognized groups in Parliament. I even had contact with a president of a democratic party that you know well. These contacts focused on this exceptional situation of having had elections, a government in day-to-day affairs and a date that is right for us. I didn't create the emergency! The urgency is linked to the fact that on 1 November, a Commission must be operational in order to face the challenges – Brexit, migration, multi-annual budget, international issues, geopolitical issues... – that we are facing. Indeed, this was done on the basis of this interpretation of routine cases, which is consistent with the circular and also with the jurisprudence of the Council of State. I refer, for example, to the appointment, a few years ago, by the Belgian Government of a Governor of the National Bank of Belgium, for which a procedure was introduced before the Council of State to challenge this decision. In the way of looking at the circumstances, I have also tried to take into account this interpretation, this jurisprudence of the Council of State in relation to current affairs. That is the question of procedure. Secondly, there is either a huge misunderstanding or a lack of knowledge of the European institutions, but a Commissioner from Belgium, France or Germany is not a Commissioner to defend the interests of a country, a party, of the Länder. No, it does not work that way at European level. The Commission must use the Community method and therefore be guided solely by the interests of the EU. The other institution, the Council, uses a more intergovernmental method. That's a very big difference. That is why some people, out of ignorance, because I do not want to believe that this is something other than a misunderstanding or an incomprehension, seem to argue that there should be a debate to see what the mandate would be given to the one who would be the Belgian European Commissioner. This vision of the role of national parliaments comes in front of the balance of the Treaties. I agree that national parliaments play an important role at European level, for European debates, for a strong democratic vitality and for the future of a European project. That is precisely why I was one of the Belgian Prime Ministers who most often started the debate with the Federal Parliament. More than fifteen times, before and after the European Councils, I came to the Committee of Opinions on European issues to discuss, exchange, discuss, and also to permeate the sensitivities of the various groups – not just those of the majority – and the points that were important to them. I was doing so to take into account the different nuances that represented Belgian democratic vitality on the question of the European project. Thirdly, the issue of gender is essential to us. I am pleased that the Council has supported a high-quality woman, Ursula von der Leyen, to preside over the Commission, and also a woman to preside over the European Central Bank. This is part of the same movement of proposal or designation. I participated and represented Belgium around the table. We will see if we can achieve the ambition of a Joint Committee by voting in the European Parliament. I support that ambition. I will remind you of an important point that some people forget. We are not going to make an appointment. We didn't appoint a person to become a commissioner. We have made a proposal. This is a starting point for the President of the Commission to determine what kind of responsibilities and skills she wants to be able to give to the various Commissioners. This has been said by people with experience as a European parliamentarian, such as Mr Bayet. There are then hearings in the European Parliament. These are serious and do not constitute a health walk. During these meetings, MEPs ask questions and put the European Commissioners candidates on the grill. Then a vote was taken. This will help to avoid a crisis on the part of the European institutions in November and, dear Mr De Smet, that Belgium is not the cause of such a crisis, because of the impossibility, caused by Belgium, of having in November a legitimate, operational Commission composed in accordance with the Treaties. I am rather astonished, saddened, that a representative of a party that claims to be European can neglect, by sweeping this issue, which is important to me, with a turn of the hand with surprising lightness. It is all the more so at a time when Europe is confronted with the debate on Brexit, the debate on migration, the debate on the budget, which leads to the possibility of freeing up resources to affect them where it is thought, after democratic debate, that priorities lie. I am delighted, as the representative of the Sp.a. said... I welcome the fact that Mrs von der Leyen's first reports from the European Parliament take account of various priorities defended by the Belgian Government in recent years. Let me give you two examples. At the European table, I was the first to defend the European Green Deal. I have strongly advocated this, and I am very pleased that Mrs von der Leyen has taken account of the strong position we have taken in this regard. As a second example, I would like to mention a social pillar, in which Commissioner Thyssen played an important role in making progress in this area. With the support of a majority in the Belgian Federal Parliament, I have also argued in recent years for a minimum wage at European level. Even though I know that there are many difficulties and obstacles, I think it will be necessary to make progress in these areas, and I hope so. Despite Mrs von der Leyen's very committed speech on these subjects, I have seen in the European Parliament that many socialist representatives have not supported the appointment of Mrs von der Leyen. I hope that, in the course of the debate, there will be broad support for the European Parliament on the basis of a programme, a project that will have to be clarified and refined. On the question of the candidate being proposed, many wondered why that candidate rather than another candidate. I repeat that, in my informal contacts with the various leaders of the democratic parties represented in Parliament, I have discussed the procedure and interpretation of this question of day-to-day affairs, given the context in which we are, but also the person who can exercise responsibility. For twenty years, the candidate in question was a federal minister. He has participated in numerous meetings throughout this political journey, in European bodies. He was a member of governments that twice presided over the European Union. As you know, he has been active in a campaign to ensure that Belgium can sit on the United Nations Security Council. Thus, it appeared to the government that it did have the profile and credibility to assume such a responsibility. I must note, moreover, that, as opponents or partners of the candidate, no one has really questioned the abilities of the personality advanced by Belgium in order to be able to fulfil the responsibility in question. That, Madam President, is the few words of reaction that I wanted to say as far as I'm concerned. On the substance of the project, I am pleased to note that many have rightly said that what must count is the direction we want to give to the next European project. It is a new chapter that opens up with this new Commission and this new federal Parliament that is being set up. In today's debate, I heard several statements and calls for the formation of a federal government to be given a chance, so that the Chamber can give the federal government the mandate to play a strong and positive role at European level, given the many challenges we face. I also wish, and it is up to Parliament to decide, that it should be possible at the outset to continue to play an active, driving role and to have discussions with representatives of the European institutions. This was the case when Marianne Thyssen came to the federal parliament. There will be many other opportunities. I hope that the Committee of Opinions on European issues can continue its work with a great deal of commitment. In response to the question raised by Mr Dallemagne and others, I am undertaking, as long as I fulfil my duties as Prime Minister in day-to-day affairs, to be available for Parliament, to continue to conduct the necessary debates. Two dates are certain: the return of the European Commission on 1 November – until then, the government is available to carry out the work with Parliament with full respect for the functioning and role of Parliament – and the Presidency of the European Council on 1 December. From this perspective, each measure the availability of Parliament. Finally, as Prime Minister in current affairs, but also for the future of our country and for the interests of our Belgian citizens, I hope that it will be possible to have a government with a majority in Parliament as soon as possible. I do not consider it a priori impossible to have before November a government with full authority and full capacity, which can make decisions. On 26 May, the voters did send out signals. Everyone has their interpretation of those signals. Our assembly has a new composition, which is the translation of a democratic message from the voters. That is why the formation of a government is urgent. The formation of a government is a different process; everyone knows the workings of our institutions. I hope, like Mr Verherstraeten, that it will be possible for those involved to act responsibly as quickly as possible so that they can provide a correct and democratic response to the challenges we face collectively.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-08-30-55-commissie-ic005x.u31	Thank you, Prime Minister. Colleagues, we have about 15 minutes left before the replies. Parliament always has the last word. Anyone who wishes to speak would like to limit the reply to one minute.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-08-30-55-commissie-ic005x.u32	Madam President, I do not know whether I should thank the Prime Minister for his answer, since I have not received an answer to any of my questions. However, the statements made by my fellow Members have made it clear who contacted the Prime Minister, very selectively, and who did not. Prime Minister, your informal contacts have only taken place with those parties that are still in the running to possibly form a federal government in a distant future. It is clear from the debate that the appointment of Mr Reynders was fine for all those parties. For CD&V it is okay, even though CD&V once mentioned Mr Reynders as the worst minister of finance and under no circumstances was he considered fit for premiership in 2014. For Open Vld it is also okay, despite the statements about feminism, gender and rejuvenation, because Open Vld believes that Mr Reynders will defend human rights. However, in spite of my insistence, he never wanted to interfere with the harsh blows that have occurred in Catalonia. In this context, I have never heard of the European Blue Group either. So it's okay for Open Vld, too. It's okay for the N-VA. The anger, which has just been mentioned in the press, has clearly cooled. Nor will it take any further steps. At times it was even touching what praises Mr Reynder received for his abilities. For several people, from Karel De Gucht to Siegfried Bracke, he is even the best suitable candidate. In order to function effortlessly in today's European Union, I believe that it has indeed been taken into account to have qualities such as cynical power politics for its own benefit. The European Union itself has become an undemocratic political system which protects and serves itself regardless of the will of the electorate. In that respect, Reynders might be in the right place. For us it has been clear for a long time that both you, Prime Minister, and Reynders stand for extreme EU federalism, which necessarily wants to be on the right side of history, but above all not on the side of the Flemish electorate. On the contrary, they take the fall. You are right to conclude that the consultation did not oppose the selective choice, but there is a very simple explanation for that. When Reynders leaves, for them the chance of a bigger cake in distributing the posts in a new federal government increases. That's the essence. Then you're surprised that people are getting more and more degout in politics. Madam President, you have asked me to be brief. I have another conclusion. I have just said that this government, a minority government in current affairs, does not have the power to make such decisions. For top appointments with a major political impact, and Mr Verherstraeten has just highlighted the importance of this function, a minority government in current affairs should consult the Chamber. Consulting the Chamber is something other than a selective, totally arbitrary choice of party presidents who are certain that they will support that choice because they still count on other posts. We need to consult the Chamber and we need a majority for milestone decisions. Otherwise, regardless of the consequences, we must postpone the top appointment. I have heard many displeasure today about this way of working and I have heard it said that there was no sense for democracy to act in this way, but displeasure about the undemocratic way of doing things is one thing; trying to do something about it is another. We will challenge that decision legally and initiate a procedure with the Council of State to prevent such a scandalous course of action in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-08-30-55-commissie-ic005x.u33	Mr. Chair, Prime Minister, the introductory statement was heard. There is no question here of discussing people or the skills of each other. They are indisputable and must be pointed out. As you said, we are at a crucial moment for Europe. As with the non-permanent seat on the UN Security Council, the appointment of the President of the European Council and the appointment of a competent Commissioner in European bodies are important moments and opportunities that we must seize. I know – as you have said – that neither the President of the Council nor the Commissioner represent their country's interests. It is therefore clear that you are not meant to represent Belgium, but this will be an opportunity for you to work, through positionings but also through input into the discussion, on imaginative solutions based on the meaning of the compromise that characterizes us, not to mention the local anchor and its roots; as Mr Herman Van Rompuy did before. As has been said, it will not be possible this morning to address all the issues. Some, however, were discussed. At European level, you are called upon, Prime Minister, to be the next President of the Council to sit on the next G7. The one that has just ended has highlighted a whole series of important problems, including one that is urgent, namely that of the Amazon. As with Iran's nuclear power, as with Russia's presence, it is important that we can already have an indication of the positions that can be defended. As far as Belgian policy is concerned, account must be taken of another element, namely the question of Mercosur. As far as Europe is concerned, you have highlighted the challenges. I will not go back to Brexit, but there is an urgent need for migration policy. It is imperative to tackle this problem with a human or even very human dimension. You will not blame me for saying – Mr Reynders has not been Minister of Defence since 1999 – that there is also an important challenge, namely that of European defence which must be put on the table. Finally, there is the axis of North-South solidarity, namely Europe's relationship with Africa, but also the Mediterranean region. In a few days there will be Mr. Tshisekedi's visit in the context of the renewed relationship with the Democratic Republic of the Congo. This is what I am going to do to Mr Reynders and the portfolio that will be allocated to him. It is clear that he will have to pay attention to an idea that you had launched and that was linked by all the federated entities, namely the National Pact for Strategic Investments, which aims to enable us to bring some stimulus to the investments that are important for the future. I am thinking of some investments in infrastructure in the North, but also in education in the South. There is also the problem of the European Structural Funds and the distribution between the regions. Care must be taken to maintain the balance which had been achieved and which had persisted in recent years. I believe that we will have the opportunity, Madam Chair, at future meetings – as the Prime Minister has confirmed his availability, as well as the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Defence – to discuss these issues in detail. It is better not to set up a menu or a walking order, but rather to talk about what we pay the most attention to for the future of Europe.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-08-30-55-commissie-ic005x.u34	Madam President, in the meantime I understand that, unlike in the European Parliament, one minute is relatively relative, but I shall be brief. It is argued that the federal elections in Belgium coincide with the European elections and that it is therefore not so exceptional that a government should make such a nomination in current cases. That is a fact, but today there is the very specific situation that the government in current affairs is supported by a minority of 38 out of 150 seats in Parliament. I hear others saying that we need to restore confidence in politics, and that is just the ones who are defending the current course of events. That's exactly what this is about for us. What message is it sending to Parliament as a symbol of democracy, to the citizen with that hint of conflict of interest and back room politics, but also to the candidate himself? That is why we are calling for the decision-making process in such cases to be transparent by consulting Parliament in advance and involving the state governments. If a conclusion can be drawn as a result of the exchange of views, then I think that there is a lot of work on the table for our committee here. We face many European challenges. The Prime Minister has referred to the fact that he has made a great deal of efforts in the past legislature to often link back to Parliament. However, I believe that a serious tooth can be added. I refer, for example, to a country such as Denmark where Parliament is also consulted before the Council of Ministers. I would also like to call on you, Madam President, to draw up a regulation of the work of our committee as soon as possible. After all, we face a great many European challenges. By the way, I would like to end my reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-08-30-55-commissie-ic005x.u35	I would certainly like to respond positively to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-08-30-55-commissie-ic005x.u36	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answers. In fact, it's very simple. I believe that we need the best possible European Commission in the coming years. We simply cannot answer the question of whether Didier Reynders is the best candidate, because only a minority in Parliament in our country has been able to speak in this way. That is, of course, the problem. The challenges in Europe are immense. The colleagues have already outlined them. We need an ambitious climate policy. Our country does not meet any of the climate objectives. We need a strong social Europe. We also need a core Europe that can move forward if necessary. If we look at Didier Reynders, then we all have to establish, and I think that few people will contradict this, that he is not immediately the pioneer of the progressive change that Europe needs. The problem is not what Mr Verherstraeten has just outlined. The problem isn't that the government is resigning. The problem is that Didier Reynders' nomination took place without the support of a majority of the people's representatives. Your government is not only resigning, it does not have a majority in Parliament either. It is customary to avoid top-ranking officials in a government of current affairs. The European nomination must be done, we know that, but come to Parliament anyway. Make an effort to determine whether Didier Reyners' figure can count on a majority in the country or not. Your government does not have a democratic majority and should be humbled. Only by working with Parliament can a minority government still find some legitimacy. The nomination of Didier Reynders for a European top job without Parliament being consulted is therefore proud and a mistake. Didier Reynders is now being sent to Europe without any clear support. That's weird. I don't think it's a gift for Didier Reynders himself either. Even CD&V realizes something needs to change. We have heard the proposal to change the procedure to avoid such cases. Even CD&V admits that an error has occurred here, because we need to amend the Rules of Procedure so that it does not happen again. If a government like yours, Prime Minister, does not come to Parliament spontaneously, we must make it compulsory in future. Who could have thought that a government without a majority would not come here spontaneously, on its own initiative, to seek that majority? In the last few months, you've done that for other things. You have sought support from the opposition because you have a minority government. You have sought support for the provisional appropriations, support for the UN migration pact, support for other drafts. You didn't do that for this. There are no excuses for this, because it is a very important function. We want to know if Didier Reynders is the best candidate to fill that position. All you have left is to refer to the informal contact you had with the party chairmen. I want to be very formal: my party chairman has not been asked to support Didier Reynders' nomination. My party chairman has only received the dry announcement that the minority government would nominate Didier Reynders. No support has been requested at all. I do not know to what extent other parties have spoken, but one thing is clear: Didier Reynders' nomination does not even have the support of a majority in Parliament because of these short telephone calls. That's a problem. That is not a good way of working for a minority government, Prime Minister. It is well known how great the ecological and social challenges are. The question remains whether a majority in our country thinks Didier Reynders is the best possible candidate. The government here, which may still be working with a minority in the next few months, has taken a decision on its own without questioning whether it can have democratic legitimacy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-08-30-55-commissie-ic005x.u37	Who has politically decided to send Didier Reynders to the European Commission? That is the political question that we have been trying to get an answer to in this debate for two hours. Who made that political decision? The Prime Minister replied. I quote you, Prime Minister. The question was who decided at political level to send Mr Reynders to the Commission. You replied that "all the democratic party groups present in the House have been contacted". Error: The PTB has not been contacted, yet it is a democratic party present in the House. This is the Prime Minister's first factual error. I now hear Groen's correction: it is a second factual error. Among the other colleagues, no one questioned the Prime Minister's phrase: "All groups of democratic parties present in the House". I would like to quote them: PS, sp.a, cdH, CD&V, N-VA, MR, Open Vld, Ecolo. These parties were contacted. Second thesis put forward by the Prime Minister: "No one has questioned Mr Reynders' ability to represent Belgium in the Commission". I find out for the first time what the "big deals" are, which we can't talk about. Do you really think that citizens are so stupid? Do you really think you can pretend that it's not you, it's the government, that you weren't told? Have a little respect for the people! I will quote here the parties that said "yes" to the appointment of Mr Reynders – a conclusion that everyone knows –: the MR – we expected – the Open Vld... The N-VA has also said yes; PS, sp.a, cdH and CD&V have also said yes. There is still the discussion on Ecolo-Green. Green says no. Ecolo hasn't said it clearly, but he's been in touch. As a result, Ecolo, you must confess that the Prime Minister is lying. He says it's not true and nobody called him into question. Ladies and gentlemen, this is precisely the problem in the field of politics in Belgium! It would be better to express clearly the political positions that everyone wants to take. I think this would be much clearer. I have no problem with all the parties who have said here that they would have voted for Reynders. I myself, belonging to a left-wing party, would have voted against it because Didier Reynders has put forward the notional interest deduction, which has cost the Belgian taxpayer 40 billion. I would have voted against Mr Reynders indeed, because if there was one person who represented this liberalism overtly, notional interests at 40 billion, excess profit rules, all these anti-social measures for twenty years, it was Mr Reynders. Ladies and gentlemen, please, why not simply hold this political debate from the beginning: who was in favour, who was against? Don't worry, now everyone is aware and the PTB, indeed, will draw its conclusions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-08-30-55-commissie-ic005x.u38	Mr Prime Minister, I confess that I do not understand very well the reasoning that if we had returned the name of a Commissioner (Mr Reynders or others) a week or two later, the European treaties would have been called into question, the Berlaymont would have collapsed and Belgium would have been a pariah of European integration. But my difficulty in understanding may be due to my lack of experience. Anyway, it's not the heart of my criticism. The heart of my criticism was that before 26 August, there was a way to deal with this emergency by involving Parliament and not just party presidents in one way or another. But you have responded with a great deal of honesty to this, explaining that you did not think that a debate here in Parliament in advance could have given any result whatsoever, which is all about the state of the party in which we are unfortunately.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-08-30-55-commissie-ic005x.u39	Thank you, colleagues. We had an interesting exchange of views. I thank the Prime Minister for his presence. We'll meet again in September for the work to be done.
