ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic027x.u1	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your presence. Before we begin our oral question-and-answer session, I have a communication on this. You may have noticed: the services encounter some difficulties in dealing with oral questions. You may have had a difficulty introducing an oral question to the Minister. If you sent it on time, i.e. before 11:00 a.m., perhaps the question was encoded by the services a few minutes or even a few tens of minutes later, with the effect that the Minister did not have the opportunity to deal with the matter. With regard to the GRAPA theme, which had been the subject of several questions, it was agreed that questions relating to this topic should be included, and therefore to show some flexibility. On the other hand, there are questions on which it is not possible to come back today, since the information could not be sought and an answer could not be drawn up. Do you have any comments, comments or questions on this topic?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic027x.u2	Madam President, I regret this situation. This is Rule 27 of the Rules of Procedure. We are not responsible for the Chamber's computer problems. I hope it doesn't happen again. I think my question was important. I regret this incident.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic027x.u3	That's right. We'll make sure we get the message out.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic027x.u4	I support my colleague's request. Of course, this is a computer issue that goes beyond the secretariats and is a little over everyone. But it's been going on for a few weeks. There are bills that disappear, issues that disappear, issues that reappear. The request is made to try to find a practical solution to this problem. On GRAPA's theme, we're going to be flexible, which I appreciate. Questions had been filed on time and in time and attached on a known and general issue. We were quite in time and then they disappeared. I will therefore be able to join colleagues and ask a question on a subject that you know very well, minister. I hope to get a favourable answer earlier.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic027x.u5	Minister, the income guarantee for the elderly (IGO) is very important. Fortunately, many pensioners with inadequate pensions will be able to supplement this by means of the IGO following an investigation into their livelihoods. On 1 July this year, a new scheme came into force following a new royal decision on the conditions of residence and the control procedure on the income guarantee for the elderly. In order to obtain an IGO, one must now really stay in Belgium. However, 29 days, whether consecutive or not, may stay abroad or 30 days, whether or not consecutive, due to temporary and accidental admission to a hospital or health care institution, or if prior admission has been obtained from the Management Committee of the Federal Pension Service. Those who leave the Belgian territory, even if only for one day, or for more than 21 calendar days, stay in a place other than their main place of residence in Belgium, for example someone who leaves for Paris for one day or stays on the coast for 14 days, are obliged to inform the service in advance. The control procedure has also been adapted. The audit shall be carried out at least once a year for at least 80% of the entitled parties. In the absence of the rightholder at the time of the check, two other attempts shall be made to issue the control document within the 21 calendar days period. If the person concerned is still absent during the last attempt, a residence certificate shall be lodged in the letter box of the person concerned. Within the five working days following the date of issue, the creditor must then present himself to the Town Hall and send a stamped document proving his residence to the Pension Service. Many people are worried about the new rules of control. Some elderly people don't even dare to leave their homes anymore, for fear that there would be a check by the postman. Postmen are called in to check the stay. On the basis of which criteria is the sample drawn up for the checks? The figure is 80 %. Where did they come from and how did they do this? Is it true that anyone who had reported his stay abroad or long-term stay in the country to the service can also be checked? Why is he or she being controlled? Why is he or she not excluded, since one had already indicated oneself to stay abroad, on the coast or in the Ardennes? If you are staying in a rest home, a rest and nursing home or a psychiatric care institution in Belgium, you will be excluded from the control procedure. Are long-term rehabilitation centres also covered by the exception? If not, can you not take care of this, because in the end it is also about people who are in a care facility? Why was the exemption from control for 80-plussers, for whom the whole procedure is very complicated, removed? I submitted my question in July. I suppose there was plenty of time to look into the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic027x.u6	Minister, Mrs Lanjri has already explained the problem. We have the impression that, in order to hunt down a limited number of fraudsters, the figures also show that all persons with an income guarantee, including those over 80, are subject to a heavy control procedure, which also involves substantial sanctions. The impact of these procedures on the lives of those concerned is very high. I myself was contacted by persons with an IGO benefit who are concerned and who are also offended by the procedure. The Network Against Poverty has also contacted me. There was also the letter received by the Minister from the Union des Villes et Communes de Wallonia, from the Federation des CPAS Bruxellois (BRULOCALIS) and from the VVSG. They also get questions from on-site. People with an IGO should now report that they will spend the night with the seniors' association in Zeeland, or that they will look after their grandchildren in another city for three weeks in the summer. We already had a system of whereabouts for athletes, but now we also have one for vulnerable elderly people. Mr Minister, postmen with the right to request the identity card of the person concerned are called in to check the residence of people, as if they were public officials or district agents. Have postmen been trained and sworn to do so? What guarantees are there when it fails to check by the postman? For example, he's ringing the bell at the wrong address. Can this task be entrusted to other private players, whether active or not in the postal market, in the future? Secondly, the cost of the new control system is likely to increase. How much more does it cost compared to the old system? How much does bpost get for this, if any, compared to the savings that the new system should generate. Thirdly, the monitoring system with suspension after that is not waterproof either. The income guarantee benefit is suspended from, for example, a week's trip to the coast, does not see the statement issued by the postman and the three previous times were not at home either. What kind of arrangement is available? Can the retired appeal? In what way? How hard is that? Finally, how many benefits have been suspended since 1 July 2019? How many verification visits have already been carried out? What are the costs of this so far?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic027x.u7	Madam President, Minister, the income guarantee for the elderly (GRAPA) is a social benefit which is subject to a number of conditions, including that of residence in Belgium. Beneficiaries must therefore regularly prove that their residence is fixed and in Belgium. Vacations or trips abroad are permitted upon declaration. Until 1 July 2019, GRAPA beneficiaries received a document to be completed by the municipality and returned to the SFP within 21 days. This document proved their residence in Belgium. In 2016, out of 30,580 residence certificates sent by the SFP, 4,862 (15.8%) resulted in a suspension of payment on the grounds that the document had not been returned on time (21 days). According to the SFP itself, these suspensions were not always justified. This has led you to reform the control system. As of July 1, 2019, GRAPA beneficiaries no longer have to go to the municipality to have their certificate of residence completed. The factor deposits it to them once a year at a random date. In case of absence, the factor will occur twice within 21 days. If he is still not opened, he will leave a certificate of residence to be completed within five working days. Failing this, the payment of GRAPA will be suspended. Minister, my questions are as follows. First, how did bpost get that mandate? Second, I didn't know the mailman was a sworn person. I thought that in our communes, neighbourhood police officers are very familiar with the different residents and might have been able to do the work without this problem of the factor which, as is still often the case for a recommended shipment, can drop it in the mailbox without ringing at the door since often people are not present in their home. Those who are of a certain age take care of their vegetable garden and are at the back of their house and therefore do not hear the factor pass. Of the 4,862 residence certificates not properly completed in 2016, how many did they result in payment suspensions considered unjustified? What are the main reasons for this? How many files were finally regularized and the payments prosecuted? In the event of proven unjustified suspension and interruption of payment, is the allowance finally paid retroactively? What conclusions do you draw from these data regarding the existence and extent of residential fraud on the part of GRAPA beneficiaries and the adaptation of this system to its public? Is this system considered simple or is it rather a source of concern for the population concerned? How will the reform which entered into force on 1 July reduce unjustified payment suspensions? How will it reduce fraud? Is an evaluation of this reform planned? If so, when?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic027x.u8	Mr President, Minister, as several of my colleagues have already said, since 1 January the factors have been responsible for verifying the actual presence in our territory of the beneficiaries of the GRAPA allowance. In order to qualify for this allowance, there is a strict condition, namely to reside in Belgium. The factors will now have the task of checking at least once a year if this condition is met. This new mission is far from unanimous, and it is causing a great deal of unease in the trade union ranks. We also believe that the role of the factor is not to become an instrument for combating social fraud. A factor is not a local police officer and the roles must be distinct. My Ecolo-Groen Group has always argued for an expanded role for the factor. We have no concerns about this; there are pilot experiments in Ostend and Antwerp; there are collaborations with the CPAS, with the civil registry for all urban permits. That's very interesting. But here, this type of mission is not adequate for the factors because it has an aspect of control that goes far beyond their task. Here are my questions. What is the framework negotiated with the SFP and bpost regarding this new mission of factors? For how long? Is there a test period? Is an evaluation considered next? How have the factors been trained in this new role that for us goes beyond their mission? What is expected if the three controls were negative while the controlled person is present in our territory? Does she have an opportunity to appeal the decision?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic027x.u9	Madam Chair, Minister, the former Swede minority and current affairs government persists and signs. Minister Bacquelaine persists and signs in his policy with respect to pensioners who benefit from GRAPA. I recall that the law that was passed under the previous legislature was annulled in its main provision by the Constitutional Court in January of this year, out of ten years of residence, including five uninterrupted years. You persist and sign on a policy that appears to be a policy of disproportionate repression between the need for control and respect for privacy. It is a policy that we find in other areas. We had lengthy debates on home visits to the unemployed, on the screening of water and electricity bills. We're here in the same register. My colleague Mrs Willaert mentioned that the CPAS and the voluntary sector consider this procedure to be disproportionate, intrusive and extremely burdensome for seniors. Some speak of "flicage of the elderly". In principle, the basic law of 2001 states that, in order to benefit from an assistance allowance, one must be resident in Belgium, have his home there and not be absent for more than 30 days. That's the base. All right, that's true for GRAPA, that's true for ARR and that's true for social integration income. No discussion on that. The question is: who exercises control and how is control exercised? We consider that the provision made this summer, in this current context, is indeed disproportionate. The reality of seniors, because all seniors will be controlled, it is sometimes situations of disability, certain addictions or certain diseases that are well known. For the report, I would like to read an excerpt from the collective "A pluralistic and pluralistic alliance for social justice and the serenity of the elderly", which gives the following examples. We're ringing at the door, checking someone's presence. "Many seniors no longer have a fine hearing and cannot afford a hearing aid. A bell can be defective. Sometimes you go out to the garden or go chatting at a neighbor's house. Sometimes a little nap is also needed. Some elderly people are reluctant to respond to an unexpected visitor through caution or poor experience, etc. Among all these motives, the factor could find a wooden door without there being any malversation at the residence." I believe that we must take into account the age of pensioners, their state of health and the fact that, for various reasons, there may be no one and no one. Finally, an administrative charge is carried on persons, i.e. to travel within five days to return the certificate of residence. All of this seems disproportionate to us. As my colleague, Mr Arens, have the factors been sworn in? Is this control not more the responsibility of the police rather than of the bpost? It is another type of operation and these are questions to ask the minister in charge of public enterprises. There is also the question of intrusion into privacy. This means that the factor knows that the person is entitled to a social assistance allowance. Is that normal? Therefore, my questions are as follows. Before this summer's scheme, did you have figures or studies that would indicate a huge tendency to fraud? What is more, I wonder about the disproportionate nature of the mechanism and the means put in place in view of the objective pursued? Then, as my colleagues have asked, what are the first results? How many checks were carried out with what results? Is an evaluation of the system planned in the short term? We actually feel like we're taking a bazooka to kill a fly. Finally, what is the cost of this measure? What will bpost receive for this service when the factors are already pressed into their work by a precise timing? What will be the financial compensation for bpost and other administrative costs?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic027x.u10	Minister, the intertwining of IGO law, in force since 1 July, has been perceived by many senior citizens as a pestilence measure. This income guarantee is a social adjustment for many people who do not come to a certain reference amount. Moreover, the amount, including the adjustment, is still below the European poverty line. The existing amounts, EUR 747 for cohabitants or an adjustment of up to EUR 1,121 for single people, are still below the European poverty line. On this basis, more stringent controls will be carried out. Since the entanglement, people have to automatically notify the Pension Service of any stay abroad. If they do not reside within Belgium for more than 21 days, they must also report it. If they don't, they risk a suspension of their IGO. We have already received many complaints. Let me give you some examples. I myself come from Zelzate, a border municipality. Many pensioners who live in a border municipality and are entitled to an IGO sometimes shop across the border or visit family or friends. In theory, they must always inform the Pension Service of such relocation. If they do not, they risk a penalty or suspension. A lot of seniors are bad on their feet. We reached the next anecdote of a retired man. He got a bell on his doorbell. The man lives on the fourth floor of an apartment building. When the man came downstairs, of course, the mailman had already disappeared. He then found a form in the mailbox stating that he should report to the municipality, but as you know, not all municipal services are organised in the same way. Five working days is very tight for some people. The measure also ensures uniformity, because elderly people are afraid of losing their IGO. They therefore sometimes prefer to stay at home not to be at risk of being at home when the postman rings the doorbell. Minister, how many people have lost their right to the IGO because of these stricter controls? If we look at the administrative nuisance caused by this and at the tax burden on people who are already in a very difficult situation, namely socially weak seniors, do you think it is permissible for us to continue to organise this administrative balast? Finally, there has been some progress in the past. The IGA law was granted automatically, so it is in itself an administrative simplification. What the people have obtained automatically will now be taken back with the other hand by means of these intensified controls. I would have liked to have heard your reaction to that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic027x.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, before I answer the questions precisely, I would like to put things in context. I hear a lot of things that are not in line with reality. I would remind you that GRAPA is not a pension, it is a social benefit. A person aged 65 or older who has never worked in Belgium and who has never contributed may claim the benefit of GRAPA if he or she establishes that he or she has financial resources below a certain ceiling. This social assistance involves – unlike pensioners, who can move freely abroad – the obligation to reside in Belgium. Otherwise, the scheme would be open to any foreign person who, after applying for and obtaining GRAPA, even without ever working in Belgium, could return to his country of origin without any time limit. This residence requirement is not new, although it is tending to be presented as such. It has always been applicable to all social assistance benefits. It is therefore wrong to claim that the reform introduced on 1 July 2018, on the basis of an order dated 30 March 2018, would restrict the freedom of movement of GRAPA beneficiaries. In fact, nothing has changed in this regard! GRAPA beneficiaries are always allowed to stay abroad, provided that the stay has been declared in advance and does not exceed 29 days. Prior declarations have been in the law since 2001. The only thing that has changed is that people are no longer obliged to go systematically to the communal house. Before that, they had to go there. The communal administration has changed. We're in an e-administration phase and we don't force people to go to the communal house to pick up documents. I don't know if there are municipalists here, but people are no longer forced to go to the communal house to fulfill their obligations. It's retrograde! What we are doing today is allowing them, if necessary, not to go there, but if we can't contact them before, they will still have to go there and then we return to the previous situation. In my view, this is progress. Yes, I see it as progress to exempt a whole series of people from having to go to the communal house. You see this as a regression! In my view, this allows more fluidity in control. I wanted to make these few preliminary general remarks because I'm sometimes made to say anything. The idea here is to bring about an improvement. I heard the word "flicage." We're in the middle of a paradox! You'd prefer it to be the police rather than factors. I don't know who's for coping! In this case, the factor is obviously not comptroller. It acts as when it gives a recommendation. Point on the line! It is better to evacuate all the fantasies that would give a role of comptroller to the factors because they are not based on any reality. In response to Mr Arens' specific question, I can state that in 2016, according to the information provided to me by the SFP, the total number of unjustified suspensions amounts to 3,154. A suspension shall be qualified as unjustified where the certificate of residence is not returned to the SFP within the time limits and the beneficiary of GRAPA subsequently provides proof of his presence in Belgian territory during the period of control. In case of unjustified suspension, the file is obviously regularised with retroactive effect. Of all residence certificates sent since 2016, 1,708 GRAPA have been suspended because of a stay abroad exceeding the permitted period. This shows, therefore, that monitoring compliance is necessary and that home fraud is a reality. Like the FPD, which is the basis of this new procedure, I believe it is easier and more practical for all IGO beneficiaries, since they are no longer systematically obliged to go to a municipal administration, except when the beneficiary was not present at the three visits of the postman. The SFP proposed to amend the control procedure as it believes that the new procedure will allow for a reduction in the number of undue payments because it allows for an increase in the checks carried out. The Royal Decree provides for at least 80% of the beneficiaries to be checked. There is therefore a notion of equality that is encountered. Following the information campaign explaining the new procedure and recalling the existing conditions and obligations, the SFP has already seen an increase in declarations of residence abroad. An initial evaluation of the new procedure is planned after a period of six months. The results of this evaluation will be communicated to the Management Committee of the FPD and to the Minister for Pensions. With regard to issues relating to the role of the factor and the framework negotiated with bpost, I would like to stress that this framework is very clear: bpost is a completely neutral logistics partner. The FPS continues to act as a monitoring agency. So it's not the factor that controls. As part of this partnership, bpost has paid particular attention to the neutrality of the factor and respect for privacy. The new control procedure does not in any way transform the role of factor into that of controller. The role of the factor can be compared, as I said earlier, to that which it fulfils when it has to submit a registered mail. The SFP is required to comply with the Public Procurement Act. The mission was assigned to bpost through a competitive procedure with negotiation and covers a period of four years. This period will therefore end on 30 June 2023. Any interested operator may participate in such a procedure. Only candidates selected on the basis of the selection criteria determined by the SFP may then submit an offer. Following negotiations on the terms and conditions of the contract, the contract is awarded to the tenderer who has submitted the most interesting tender at the budgetary level. Because of the confidentiality of this procurement, it is impossible for me to communicate to you the cost per control performed by bpost. I don't know him. However, the SFP estimates that the savings resulting from the reduction in undue payments under the new system will be higher than the cost of the procedure. Between July 2019 and the end of September 2019, 35,853 checks were carried out. During this period, two control cycles took place. The first round of checks on 16,000 cases was closed at the end of August and resulted in 1,072 suspensions. The second round of controls was closed at the end of September. The processing of cases in this second cycle is still ongoing. As a result, the total number of suspensions is not yet stable. It is therefore impossible to give precise figures for this second cycle. However, the SFP estimates that the proportion of suspensions in relation to the number of checks carried out will remain more or less the same, namely – as I recall – 1,072 suspensions out of 16,000 checks. If a personal issue of the document is impossible after three attempts and the time limit for sending the document deposited in the mailbox is exceeded, the payment of the IGO will be suspended. In that case, the person concerned will of course, as was the case before, be able to provide proof of his presence on the Belgian territory during the period of the inspection. As I have already indicated, in such a case, the dossier will be regularised with retroactive effect. The control criteria are determined by the SFP. As provided for in the Royal Decree, at least 80% of beneficiaries will be monitored on a random basis once a year. In 2019, for practical reasons – including the formation of factors by bpost – the controls are planned by zone according to postal codes. Persons paid by subpoena as well as persons admitted to rest homes, nursing homes and psychiatric institutions are excluded from supervision. The beneficiaries staying in long-term rehabilitation centres shall not be excluded from the control. However, after sending the necessary certificates to the FPD, the centre will be considered as the actual and permanent place of residence of the person concerned. I can tell you that those who have declared their stay abroad will not be checked during the declared period. Apart from this period, they can of course be monitored, like all other GRAPA beneficiaries. Persons who have declared a stay at another address in Belgium may also be checked during this declared stay. The check shall then be carried out at the address indicated as the temporary address by the person concerned. This new notification obligation was introduced precisely in order to avoid a series of unjustified suspensions, which was previously the case. Persons over 80 years of age are no longer excluded from the control. Since the check is now carried out at the beneficiary's home or at the given temporary address, there is no valid reason to exclude persons over 80 years of age from the check. These are the answers I wanted to give you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic027x.u12	Madam President, Minister, I am convinced that it is not the intention to bully people but rather to tackle abuses. In practice, however, people feel this differently. You may have received that signal by e-mail and by letter, but also through organisations such as the VVSG and you must take it seriously. An evaluation is planned after six months. I am counting on you to do a number of adjustments. You say, for example, that if you stay in a long-term rehabilitation centre, you will not be excluded, while if you stay in a residential care centre or psychiatric care institution, you will be excluded. If you're in a rehab center, which is often for a few weeks or months, you'll have to give this center an address when it's not his address. Eventually, the person still lives at home and is still dominated at home, but is temporarily in a rehabilitation center. In fact, the royal decree should be amended to exclude those temporarily in a rehabilitation centre. Now it's getting tricky. One must state that one stays in a rehabilitation centre and this is then considered as a permanent residence, but it is not the permanent residence. If you send a certificate, you say it will be considered a permanent residence, but it is not the permanent residence; it is a temporary residence. Otherwise, I didn't understand you correctly. You reassure me a little if you say that who has given up being abroad is not being checked. That's the idea. However, I have an e-mail here in which the person says he has contacted the official. According to the official, a person who has given up residence abroad can still be checked during that stay abroad. The official may be wrong. I don't think it makes any sense either. It is logical that one should be checked during the period when one is in Belgium. During the period of residence abroad, however, it is logical that people are not at home. So, Minister, things are going wrong. I would also like to call for an evaluation to be carried out in the interim, so that things that are already emerging can be corrected as soon as possible. You can do that in current cases. This is a correction or adjustment of adopted legislation. This is policy implementation, nothing new. But it has to be done properly, so people don't feel like they're being bullied. Everyone understands that there are checks on abuses. No one says that people who don't live here should get social assistance. However, there are people who do live there. For example, there are poignant cases of people with a sick partner who, in the long run, are afraid to go to sea for a week in fear of the controls. That's not the point. I therefore hope that those involved will receive more information so that they know that it is not the intention to give people the signal that they cannot go outside. I hope this will be corrected.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic027x.u13	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. You have taught us a little bit about what the IGO is right. There's no harm in that, but I think most of my colleagues knew that. You say that nothing has changed, except that people do not have to go to the congregation once a year. We have to be honest about it: on the whole, a few things have changed. Firstly, it should be mentioned in advance that more than 21 days in Belgium will not be home. That is new, but there is no sanction for not reporting this, I understand. The following is the suspension of the IGO for one month if the prior notification is not complied with when staying abroad. I understand that this is not just a performance, but it is something new. Finally, as you mentioned, subjecting 80+s to this control is also new. This is something in which I believe most Members have questions, not so much about the modalities of the IGO, but about the way in which controls and sanctions are carried out. That is actually what the debate is about. You call it administrative simplification and you dress it up so that it is better for the people in question, because they do not have to go to the municipality when they are at home. The mailman can point that out, and it's okay. I wonder, like Mrs Lanjri, whether the elderly concerned have been asked whether they are asking for this administrative simplification. The Network Against Poverty, not least, also raises many questions. As mentioned in my question, this also applies to the Union des Villes et Communes de Wallonie, BRULOCALIS, the VVSG and so on. All these organisations are asking questions. There are also many elderly people who have been contacted by colleagues here about how this gets in and what fears they have about it. Speaking about administrative simplification seems too far to me if the people themselves were not consulted and authoritative voices also have a lot of questions. You do not know the exact amount you pay to bpost for this, but I suppose you can know or know. It is very important for Parliament to be informed of this. Finally, I find the comparison with a registered shipment for which a postman must also ask for an identity card offensive. A registered shipment can be picked up a day later if the offer is not at home, but the benefit does not depend on it. Whether one can live or survive does not depend on that, but the IGO is now placed in the hands of the postman. Colleagues have cited enough examples of cases that could go wrong. It's more than just a registered shipment. It concerns the monthly income of older people who have not acquired enough pension rights; 65% of them are women, often widows. The comparison you made, I find offensive.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic027x.u14	Madam President, Minister, thank you for the various clarifications you have made. I was very pleased to learn that the unjustified suspensions had been regulated retroactively, which is important. Having said that, it is clear that we must be able to control what is happening. Moreover, if I understand you correctly, the factor only places the various documents in the mailbox. I imagine that the factor deposits the document that is to be completed in the person's mailbox and that if the document is not transmitted, the factor represents itself twice within 21 days. Is it bpost who has to check, who has to follow up, or is it the SFP who asks bpost to deposit other documents in the person's mailbox? Is it possible for the SFP to work with the population service of the communes that have a lot of information? As a mayor, I regularly receive requests for decommissioning from the population service of my municipality, because a person is no longer in the territory. I would really like to be sure that the factor should not assume a role other than that of placing the SFP mail in the person's mailbox.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic027x.u15	Mr Arens, the mailman is just ringing at the door. The person who opens is invited to sign a document attesting to his or her presence. The procedure is the same as for a recommendation. There is obviously an identity check to ensure the identity of the person signing. If the third time the person is still not present, the factor returns the document which must be completed by the municipality, as was the case before. The only thing that changes – I repeat – is the fact that if the person is present when the factor passes, he or she must just sign. She must not go to the communal house and she must not return a document. That's the only difference.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic027x.u16	Madam Chair, Minister, thank you for your answers. I'm gonna focus on the part you just talked about. You say that you are in favour of improving services and that people are not going to the commune any more systematically. Nor do we have any difficulty with this in principle. Let's not mix things up. The difficulty we are encountering, and we are not the only ones – I think you have seen the reaction of a whole series of actors, including representatives of the bpost staff – is this: is that the role of the factors? That is the fundamental question. It's not about going to the communal house less often. I think we can agree that this is interesting. You make the comparison with a recommended one. There is still an element of control, especially on the identity card, which is also done for a recommended one. If there is an absence, the factor must report it. Reporting an absence is still a check. For us, this remains very problematic. You announced that there would be an evaluation after six months. I think it is very important that we can have the debate, at this time, with objectified facts. The last thing I wanted to ask you or your colleague Mr. From Backer who has the tutelage on bpost, concerns the framework contract. It would be interesting if we could get to know its content. You say you're careful that the factor doesn't have a control role. I do not know whether it is up to you or your colleague, but I would like to have this document available to parliamentarians, since it is a public undertaking. It's very important to our work. As far as the factors are concerned, we have not mentioned that today, socially, they are perceived by citizens as having a positive role. We look forward to it. All IBPT investigations show this. New roles such as bringing shopping, medicines, participating in urban surveys remain positive in the collective imagination, and for us too. Here we are talking about another kind of role. I think that the impact on the collective imagination must be taken into account, even if it is less objectivable, because the image of the factor must remain positive for our citizens. It's important to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic027x.u17	Minister, thank you for your answer to the Daniel Bacquelaine. As usual, you drown the fish. It's an art. I'll tell you something. Sometimes, when Mr. Bacquelaine is asked a question, and he has finished answering it, the question asked at the outset is no longer understood. It's not from me, it's from the French comedian Coluche: "Carpe, I call you rabbit". It's an art! You say this is progress, but when I see the reactions of CPAS, social workers, bpost people, the voluntary sector, I think that few of them are convinced that this is progress. The question is not whether people are going to go to the municipal administration or not, but how the control is going to be carried out and how the system is going to be put in place. Knowing you, I'm not sure you're convinced yourself that this is progress, but you're still saying it. I knowingly recalled the legal basis because I knew you were going to refer to it. I have not heard anyone in the colleagues questioning the 2001 legal basis, namely the residence requirement in the country. No one called that into question. The question is who controls and how control is exercised. That's what all the questions are about, but again, you're trying to divert our attention. Let's turn to the role of the factor and the relationship to privacy. Obviously, if the factor sounds at Mr. Dupont or at Ms. Tartempion, it is that he has received an indication of the administration according to which this person perceives GRAPA. I forgot to ask you if you had sought the opinion of what was called the Privacy Commission, now known as the Data Protection Authority.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic027x.u18	I don't think so.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic027x.u19	Okay. It would be interesting to have the opinion of this body that is at the heart of the question. If you could make the request, we would be interested to hear their views on the following question: Is the factor an appropriate person to apply the approach as you are considering? I continue to believe that this is an intrusive mechanism in the lives of seniors who benefit from GRAPA, even if it is not a pension but a social benefit. As far as the figures are concerned, you are talking about 1,072 sanctions on 16,000 checks since 2016. For how many years? Only 2016? Or the period covered since 2016? If you make 1,072 by 16,000, this results in 6.7% of problematic cases. If it's three years, we divide it by three, but it's 105,000 beneficiaries. The vast majority of people do not pose a problem with the question of residence. So if I calculate the proportion of your 1070 out of 105,000, I'm 1%, down over a year, that's...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic027x.u20	No, you have to calculate 16,000.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic027x.u21	Madam President, I am in reply! There are 105,000 beneficiaries and, as always, the vast majority of cases do not pose any difficulties. The rate of sanctions must be calculated in relation to the number of beneficiaries. Of course, you can check the 105,000, but you won't have such a high rate. I think we're 0.034% effective. It's not dishonest! There are 105,000 beneficiaries. The problem rate for me is this one.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic027x.u22	Over two months of checks.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic027x.u23	You've said since 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic027x.u24	I never said that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic027x.u25	Maybe I misheard. I've rated 1,072 since 2016.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic027x.u26	May I ask if everyone agrees that we are drawing this question of numbers to the fore? Minister, can you repeat the figures you provided? Then Mr. Delizée will finish his reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic027x.u27	The first round of checks involving 16,000 people (not out of 105,000) was closed at the end of August. It started on July 1st. Over two months, we had 1,072 suspensions on 16,000 checks. You have to stop saying it's on 105,000.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic027x.u28	I probably didn't get the numbers in the mouth. It's going very fast. However, if you control the 105,000, you won't have such a problem. The whole question is which device is put for what result. I'll finish it. The problem is not exclusively that people would stay abroad. It is also the stay in Belgium. These are people who sometimes live with a child for a convalescence, for example. Inevitably, given the public concerned, there will be squalls. People will be deprived of their allowance when they are not necessarily in default. My conclusion is that this device is intrusive and disproportionate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic027x.u29	I would like to join Mr Delizee. That measure is indeed disproportionate, especially when we look at the checks in the light of the legislative amendment that was intended to be made in 2017 in order to make the conditions for granting more stringent, including by imposing a ten-year stay in Belgium, of which five years are continuous; a legislative amendment that was destroyed by the Constitutional Court. From the committee reports we learned that if these conditions were to be met, 690 people would no longer be able to use the IGO or 0.6% of all users. The IGO represents 1% of the total pension budget. That is what we are discussing now. Within this framework, we are now introducing enhanced control. Mr. Secretary, I think you are quite wrong about your opponent. I think it would be more appropriate for the next government to tackle the major organised tax fraud, rather than just stomping down and making it even more difficult for those who are already struggling. You also claim that nothing has changed. If they wanted to go abroad for more than three weeks, they had to report it to the Federal Pension Service in advance. From now on, we must do so at every move. It says literally: "If one goes abroad, whatever its duration, one has to report it." Something's changed. You speak for yourself, but not in the name of pensioners, who are really afraid and do not dare to leave their homes, especially those living in border municipalities. It has been drawn from the hair as divorced single or single widows who fall back on the husband's survivor's pension every time they cross the border, because they have to declare each move. That's not serious. I understand you want to go further with the red tape, but if it depends on us, we say, please drop it and focus your priorities on something else. The measure has absurd effects. A lot of people are affected by this. We got a lot of testimonies from people who are afraid to leave their homes. Once again, Minister, we are really insisting on abandoning the increased controls and setting priorities elsewhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic027x.u30	Minister, do you really think that families make a distinction between their own children and adoptive children, plus children or foster children? Although, in my view, the law of 22 March 2001, cited earlier, does not make that distinction, an interpretation of that law does reduce the amount for a financially vulnerable pensioner with an IGO to the amount of a cohabitant when living together with a minor foster child of a cohabiting son. I believe that this would not be the case if it were a child of its own, because that interpretation is not given to the law. I find this situation distressing. Especially at a time when there is a shortage of foster homes, you actually force the children of those elderly people to make a choice: either they drop the foster child or the parent they care for, otherwise the IGO of that parent will be shortened. Mr Minister, can you confirm that the derogation provided for in Article 6 (2) 1° of the Law of 22 March 2001 covers all possible children, including child foster children? Is a minor foster child assigned to a straight line blood or related, here the son of the person receiving an IGO, also considered to be registered in the population register and share the same main residence? If that is the case, on the basis of what regulatory provision is it? Do you consider this provision as unfair as I do?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic027x.u31	In order to grant the increased IGO base amount, the FPD relies on Article 6 of the Law of 22 March 2001. The rules laid down in that Article concerning cohabitation with minors and adult children for whom family allowances are granted, as well as blood or related persons in law, shall also apply to children placed under a judicial decision. A minor foster child is therefore considered to be a minor child within the meaning of Article 6 (2). In the event that you have quoted in your question, therefore, the foster child placed with a multi-year-old son of an IGO enjoyer will not prevent the application of the increased IGO base amount. Article 7 (1) of the abovementioned Act provides that only the means of subsistence of the person concerned, his spouse or the legally resident are to be taken into account for the calculation of the IGA. The total of the means of subsistence referred to in § 1 is then divided by the number of persons, including the person concerned, whose means of subsistence are taken into account. However, an exception is provided for the minor and the adult children for whom child benefit is granted, in both cases limited to the first degree in respect of the person concerned, his spouse or legal cohabitant, as well as for children who have been placed with the person concerned, his spouse or his legal cohabitant by a judicial decision and for whom child benefit is granted. The children belonging to these different categories are thus also included in the sharer for the sharing of means of subsistence. Since the case referred to by you concerns a child who is placed with the son of the person concerned and therefore not with the person concerned himself, the child will not be taken into account in the sharer for the sharing of means of subsistence. The rules of Articles 6 and 7 seem logical to me, since the registration at the address of the person concerned of a child placed with a majority son of the person concerned does not prevent the granting of the increased IGA base amount. Since the child is placed with the adult son and therefore not with the person concerned, it also seems logical to me not to include that child in the sharer for sharing the means of subsistence.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic027x.u32	Thank you, Minister, for your clarity. I hope that this interpretation will also be passed on and applied in all areas. My question has arisen as a result of a specific case which has been reported to me. I hope that this will resolve the issue and that the increased basic amount of an IGA beneficiary will not be reduced, particularly in view of the shortage of foster homes. As far as I am concerned, any commitment in this respect must be supported.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic027x.u33	Madam President, Minister, during the previous legislature, the government decided to make it more favourable for people to buy off their academic years. In the past, that only existed for civil servants. Until 1 December 2020 it is possible to purchase a year of study for 1,530 euros, which can result in an annual surplus of 273 euros gross or more on the pension. The system was introduced at the end of 2017 and on 1 July 2019 21,387 Belgians had applied, of which only 5,751 people have already deposited their money. In principle, this measure was intended to generate EUR 80 million for the 2018 budget, but figures in the press refer to a revenue of EUR 18 million since its introduction at the end of 2017. Although the introduction of the measure was delayed due to a conflict of interest, people still have six months to make their payments and there may still be a peak to be expected at the end of the favourable arrangement because some people may still have doubts, I believe there are other factors that explain this poor success. One is the fact that questions are not answered or are not answered in good time. People have told me there's a problem when they contact mypension. It is not easy to know whether the investment to be made is interesting for the future. It is EUR 1,530 per year and perhaps they want to buy off for a few years, so sometimes it is about EUR 4 to EUR 5,000. A lot of people have questions about this. In principle, they can ask their question via mypension and have it calculated whether it is advantageous to regularize the years of study. Now, however, it appears that these questions are not always answered. I have received examples of questions already submitted in November 2018 and to which there is still no answer. Are you aware that questions relating to the purchase of study years that are asked via mypension are not or are not dealt with within an acceptable period of time? Waiting a year for an answer is absolutely impossible. A question should be answered immediately, or at least one should receive a notification of receipt and an answer within one month. That is not the case. How will this problem be addressed? Within what period are you looking to fix that? In the meantime, where can people go with their questions as long as the problems of mypension have not been solved and the system is working properly? The normal path to walk is mypension, which platform serves to ask questions. I myself took the test once by telephone, and it is said that there is a huge delay and that it may take a very long time for an answer to come, even if the requested documents are sent immediately. I don't think this is very hopeful.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic027x.u34	Since the implementation of the reform relating to the purchase of the academic years, my cabinet has asked the FPD to provide monthly statistics on the questions asked, the applications submitted, the rhythm with which the applications are handled and the size of the stock of untreated files. Despite the budget allocated by the government for the recruitment of additional officials to deal with the requests for purchase, we have indeed found that sometimes the time-limit for dealing with the questions and applications can be very long and therefore the stock is increasing. My head of the cabinet and myself have repeatedly expressed our concern about these deadlines and I have therefore asked the FPD to explain to me the deadlines set. The FPD replied that these deadlines are mainly due to the fact that the FPD is dependent on third parties in a number of files before being able to deal with them. For example, it is often necessary to verify diplomas before confirming whether they can be regularised. In many files, the FPD also depends on Defense for military service records. Just like you, I regret the long term treatment. I requested an additional analysis from the FPD to check whether the number of persons assigned to the examination of applications is sufficient. Following this analysis, I will ask the FPD to take the necessary measures to significantly improve the treatment period, to deal with pending dossiers as soon as possible and to better inform citizens in the event of delays caused by third parties. In this context, I would also like to stress that the problem has nothing to do with mypension, but with the back office services that deal with the questions and requests.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic027x.u35	Minister, it is good that you have requested the figures and the statistics. I suggest that you deliver them to us through the secretariat. Can you also tell me what the delay is at the moment?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic027x.u36	I don't have those numbers here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic027x.u37	This can also be delivered by mail. It cannot be the intention that people who have a limited time to apply themselves, until 1 December 2020, should not do so because they know that it would take far too long because of the delay in mypension. They have been deterred by this, while it is in their favor to do so. A side effect is that the expected revenues will therefore no longer be there. The short-term payment for these years of study reduces the resources that could be available. You say you've requested an additional analysis. I hope that it is not just an analysis or a regret. You regret this, but you can do something about it. It is my job to ask you to do so effectively. I'm counting on you to do that. I hope that new people will be recruited to the back office when I ask you again about a state of affairs in a month's time. In the meantime, I'd like to see your figures. I hope I can have it this afternoon.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic027x.u38	Minister, in 2006, the Staff Regulations of the Integrated Police Logistics Framework (CALog) were published. This statute provides for a competence allowance from which a pension contribution is levied. However, the Royal Decree allowing this contribution to be taken into account in the calculation of the pension has never been adopted. Workers are therefore injured: they pay a contribution but their pension does not increase. This situation has been dragging on since 2006 and you are not entirely responsible for it. However, it is becoming urgent to solve the problem because some have already taken their pensions. Minister, you confirmed in 2017 and 2018 that you would pass the Royal Order to take this assessment into account, but nothing has yet been published. Are you going to pass this royal decree? If so, when? How many contributions have been collected since 2006 on the competency allowance? Is this money capitalized? Will this amount be taken into account in granting retroactive effect in the calculation of pensions?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic027x.u39	Dear colleague, the draft royal decree allowing the pension to be taken into account for the calculation of the pension of various competence allowances, in particular that granted to the personnel of the logistics framework of the integrated police, cannot be submitted for approval by the Council of Ministers until a new government is formed. Indeed, given the budgetary impact on the public treasury of taking into account these jurisdictional allocations – of which there is no doubt – this decision is outside the strict framework of the management of current affairs. It will therefore be up to the next government to take an attitude on this issue. With respect to your question about the total 7.5% personal contributions collected so far from CALOG's jurisdictional allowances, the Federal Pension Service does not have these data. Since these levies are made by the ONSS, it is therefore appropriate to question the Minister of Social Affairs who exercises the supervision over this body. The draft Royal Decree has retroactive effect since it provides for a course to be taken on 1 January 2007, when the competence allowance is granted when certified training is successfully followed by the CALOGs. This draft royal decree therefore allows the revision of the pensions already allocated to take account of these competence allowances in the calculation of the pension.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic027x.u40	Minister, I thank you for your reassuring answers, particularly because of the retroactivity and the revision of pensions that have already been awarded. Nevertheless, I will table a motion for a resolution to speed up the entry into force of this decree.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic027x.u41	Minister, if a servant becomes ill for a long time in the middle of the year and there are days left at the end of the year which he could not take because he was ill, the employer must pay the balance of those holidays. No invalidity benefit is therefore paid on those days. Apparently, those days for which the employer pays the balance are not counted for the pension either as worked or as treated days. I think that situation is very unfair. From people who get seriously ill, at any time, it is difficult to say that with their holiday money they can book a carefree holiday to the sun? Moreover, they are punished again because those days later do not count for their pension. Minister, are you aware of this unfair situation? Are you prepared to take measures to eliminate this unfair situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic027x.u42	Non-working days for which no social benefit is paid are indeed not recorded in the individual pension account. The receiving of a social benefit is, after all, the basic condition for the equivalence of an inactive period for the pension. However, I agree with you that the situation is unfair. I will ask the Federal Pension Service, in consultation with the RIZIV, to examine how that situation can be rectified. It is essential, however, for the award of equivalence, that the Federal Pension Service has the necessary information to include such days in the career.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-10-15-55-commissie-ic027x.u43	Of course, Minister, I am pleased that you consider this situation as unfair as I do. You're starting a meeting. I would like to be kept informed of the results so that I can monitor the situation. Thank you for the answer.
