ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u1	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Thiéry's 26069 will be dealt with in the Committee on Health.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u2	Madam Minister, the CREG published a follow-up study on the organisation of group purchases in the energy market in October 2018. The study showed that there are still some improvements. For example, the energy regulator currently has no or insufficient information on such group purchases. Nor can they be included in the CREG Scan, which makes it difficult for consumers to compare the offer of the group purchase with the regular offer, which means a fairly large defect if we want consumers to be able to make the necessary comparisons, all the more so since the share of group purchases on the market is not insignificant. Following these findings and other shortcomings, the CREG requests that its powers be extended and makes some recommendations to this end, including the introduction of the possibility for the CREG to request information from the organisers of group purchases. This could be done by extending or adding to the definition of intermediary in the Electricity and Gas Act. I have included in the text of my question what such an addition might look like. A new version of the charter for the provision of good information in the price comparison of electricity and gas can also include a clear definition of the term "saving potential'. Madam Secretary, are you aware of the study? I suppose so. What actions do you intend to take in this regard? Are you prepared to consider, together with us, an amendment to the Electricity and Gas Act concerning the definition of intermediary and the definition of savings potential?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u3	Mr Calvo, in her recent study on group purchases in the retail market for electricity and natural gas, the CREG made it clear once again that the request for information from, among other things, group purchases organisers is currently not within the competence of the CREG, as they are included in the Electricity and Gas Act. In the study, the CREG is in favour of extending its powers to request information from, among other things, group purchasing organisers by extending the definition of intermediary in the Electricity Act and including the definition of intermediary in the Gas Act. What's a middleman? I quote: "Every natural or legal person directly or indirectly involved in: analysing contracts, carrying out price comparisons with or without the possibility of switching, bringing suppliers and final customers together, organising group purchases, allocating energy supplies to suppliers and/or concluding energy contracts for final customers." This implies an extension of the powers of the CREG, which should be given the possibility to request information on this matter, and an adaptation of the Electricity and Gas Act. At the end of 2018, VREG published a study on the same theme. The VREG also calls for an extension of the regulatory framework at regional level in order to better monitor the organisation of group purchases. In July 2018, the CREG approved a new version of the charter for the provision of good information in the price comparison of electricity and gas. The new text of that charter, which entered into force on 1 October 2018, is addressed to the price comparison service providers, including the group purchase organisers. A new provision was added to the Charter for the provision of good information in the price comparison of electricity and gas, namely § 2, 8, as the CREG wishes to clearly define the terminology used for the comparison of products and the potential for saving. Suppliers have the possibility to adjust the product portfolio and prices or price formulas. In addition, certain suppliers have specific comparison contracts for certain products offered in the past. The monitoring of the CREG shows that suppliers have changed a product portfolio several times, so that a user does not find its product in the list of existing products, and/or have modified a product with the same name, price or price formula, so that a user does not know which version of the product was endorsed. The consumer agreement provides that each tariff card remains available as long as there are contracts based on the tariff card. At the simple request of the consumer, the tariff card applicable to his contract is immediately provided to him by the energy supplier. It is also permanently available in its digital customer zone, as long as its contract runs. The CREG wishes to make a clear distinction between a comparison of the products of the existing offer and the comparison of the existing offer with the current contract. The CREG notes that potential savings for the user are often miscommunicated and a potential for savings that does not correspond to reality is reported. The CREG Scan is a starting point and indicates for a standard consumption whether the contract previously concluded is an asset or other contract and how it relates to the cheapest and most expensive product in the current market. Moreover, the provisions of the charter do not in any way affect the legal provisions that may apply to online price comparisons, such as the rules on unfair commercial practices and on misleading and comparative advertising. It may be possible to examine with the Minister of Economy whether it is indeed appropriate to define the potential savings in economic legislation or in energy legislation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u4	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for her comprehensive reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u5	Mr President, these are two questions of a different order, so it was not the very best idea in the history of our committee. That said, Madam Minister, the first question concerns the speech by Secretary of State Pieter De Crem at the International Atomic Energy Agency and the role he was given as a special envoy for the MYRRHA project. That speech took place on 18 September 2018. He has committed himself to funding by the Belgian government in the period 2019-2038, for as much as 558 million euros. A first installation should be completed by 2026. The Secretary of State also announced that the Belgian Government will establish a structure to promote the project and allow interested partner countries to participate in the project. I have the following questions. If I am not mistaken, the establishment of this non-profit organisation was announced as early as October 2017, when the Secretary of State was appointed as Special Envoy. Has it been established by now? Why did the foundation take so long? One of the missions of the Special Envoy was to seek external funding. In the meantime, what's the outcome of the search? What impact does the role of Special Envoy have on the budget? Are there any additional fees, resources, staff deployment and expenses associated with that mandate? To whom and by what frequency is the Special Envoy accountable? Until when does Mr De Crem's mandate as Special Envoy run? Will he be followed? Has his mandate ended in the meantime, given that he, as the Minister of the Interior, has something more to do with him? My second series of questions concerns the state of funding for MYRRHA. This is also quite topical because some party chairmen have turned it into their own. In addition to the questions about the role of the Special Envoy and Mr De Crem, I would like to know more about the general state of affairs, in particular about funding, Madam Minister. What is the project status of MYRRHA? There is a regular project evaluation. What are the main findings of the project evaluation? Which investors, whether or not driven by Pieter De Crem, have now made concrete commitments to invest in MYRRHA? I would like to hear the actual figures. In addition to project funding, does part of the basic funding of the SCK-CEN go to the MYRRHA project? If so, what share? What exactly are these funds devoted to? How much additional funding will be provided for the MYRRHA project in the coming years? How do you account for this amount in a time of scarce resources, in which all the resources for the real energy transition must be collected?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u6	Madam Minister, the Research Centre for Nuclear Energy in Mol is one of the world's leading nuclear applications research centres and is one of the largest producers of radioisotopes in the world. To maintain this leading position, the SCK is currently developing a new type of nuclear reactor MYRRHA. The SCK aims to embed the development of this reactor in an international cooperation for which other countries are also wanted to cross the line. They also look at the Länder, including Flanders. A collaboration with the Netherlands already exists for medical applications. The reactor in Petten and the BR2 reactor in Belgium provide almost 100 percent of the European medical isotope requirement. Both reactors date back to the 1960s and therefore a new infrastructure is desirable. On 7 September 2018, the Council of Ministers decided to release more than 550 million euros for structural funding in the period 2019-2038, in order to give the project every chance of success. However, as a result of the government crisis, the budget has gone into twelfths. What impact does this have on the resources, funding and implementation of the MYRRHA project? Is there any interest or agreements with other countries, Flanders or other states to participate in MYRRHA? In the Netherlands we are working on the PALLAS reactor, in Belgium we are looking at the MYRRHA project. Is there any interest from the Netherlands in investing in the MYRRHA project? Are there any other forms of cooperation with the Netherlands in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as a preliminary remark, I should like to point out that Mr De Crem made the statements at the IAEA General Conference, to which you refer, not as MYRRHA's special envoy, but as head of the Belgian delegation. In addition, at the general conference, Belgium's declaration also included a number of other themes, including security, proliferation and international geopolitics. He also took the opportunity to make various contacts in Vienna, as should be the case. In the context of the gradual core step, the Belgian Government considers it a priority to maintain Belgian knowledge and expertise in the nuclear field and remain a world-class player in the field of innovation in key areas such as nuclear medicine, the production of medical radioisotopes, research into new materials, particle accelerators and the study of transmutation of long-lived radioactive waste. The latter is one of the most important and aims to make progress through scientific developments on new and complementary solutions for responsible management of radioactive waste, a subject of common international interest. For this reason and in order to achieve that objective, the government decided on 7 September 2018 to build a new large research infrastructure in Belgium, the only one identified by the European Commission through its ESFRI programme, in particular MYRRHA. In order to ensure every chance of success of the project, the Council of Ministers decided to allocate a structural funding of EUR 558 million for the period 2019-2038 to cover investments in the MINERVA plant by 2026 and, on the other hand, the future operating costs after 2027 and the studies and developments of the MYRRHA installation. The government wanted to make as many decisions as technically, scientifically and financially possible at this stage. It is intended that the decision is structural and that the project is maximum self-sufficient. I do not need to underline how much interest there is in the technology of particle accelerators in that area. The decision was already the result of a real team effort, namely by myself and my colleagues, Minister Peeters and Secretary of State De Crem. You understand that a decision of EUR 558 million must be weighed and ripened. The breakdown of funding is as follows: Firstly, the investments related to the construction and commissioning of phase 1 of MINERVA for the period 2018-2026 amount to EUR 287,3 million. The operating costs of MINERVA for the period 2027-2038 amount to EUR 156 million. Finally, the design costs for the preparation of Stages 2 and 3 relating to an application for authorisation for the period 2019-2026 are EUR 115 million. The project was financed by SCK-CEN, mainly from the ordinary budget, for a total amount of EUR 22.6 million during the period when the project did not yet receive a special grant from the Belgian Government. In addition, from 2010 to 2017, the MYRRHA project received a special donation from the federal government, which also accounted for the largest share of the funding, for a total amount of 101.9 million euros. During that period, the project was financed by SCK-CEN, from the ordinary amount and own resources, for a total amount of EUR 39.7 million. Including European grants or contract research, the total amount of funding for the MYRRHA project between 1995 and 2017 was therefore EUR 178,2 million. Through the government agreement, the federal government has committed itself to supporting the MYRRHA project. In order to ensure that promotion at the international level is as effective as possible at the lowest possible cost, the SCK-CEN supervisory ministers, namely myself, as Minister of Energy, and Kris Peeters, as Minister of Economy, also responsible for Foreign Trade, decided on 6 September 2017 to ask the Secretary of State for Foreign Trade to support the MYRRHA project within the framework of its powers. What are the possible budgetary implications? On 11 October 2015, the Council of Ministers ruled that "this appointment does not involve a request for additional budgetary resources'. He can rely on SCK-CEN and the MYRRHA ad hoc group. The Council of Ministers of 7 September 2018 decided to continue the existing efforts to promote the project internationally, as agreed between the Ministers of Economy and Energy. Mr De Crem held that difficult position since October 2017. Why is it a difficult position? Although it is true that the MYRRHA project continues to interest foreign partners, the main question of those partners was that Belgium would first take the risk and decide to invest in the project itself. This is one of the reasons why no agreement has yet been reached with another country to participate in the implementation of the project. The ministers concerned shall consult each other on how to report on the actions undertaken and on future actions; the Cabinets concerned shall exchange the necessary information. In order to attract partners and convince them to join the project, the government decided on 7 September 2018 to establish an international non-profit association as a successor structure in 2019, with the aim of promoting the project and encouraging the participation of interested international partners. Once operational, the Ivzw will be the owner of the installations, responsible for the international promotion of the MYRRHA project and bringing together the participations of other partner states. In order to strengthen synergies, in particular at the level of international action, the Council of Ministers of 7 September 2018 invited the future Ivzw in formation, assisted by SCK-CEN, in consultation with the AD Energy of the FPS Economy, SMEs, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and Energy, and in cooperation with the FPS Foreign Affairs, Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation, to develop an international outreach strategy. A representative of the FPS Foreign Affairs, Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation will also be present in the body. This presentation will give you the status of the MYRRHA project, a financial overview of both the past and the budgetary aspects for the future of the important decision that was taken by the Council of Ministers on 7 September 2018. With regard to the impact of the budgetary means in twelfths for 2019, one must of course regret such a situation. The issue is currently under discussion between the budget teams of the offices concerned, i.e. the office of the Minister of Budget and the SCK-CEN. As far as your other questions are concerned, it seems to me, Mr Calvo, that I have already had the opportunity to give a detailed answer to them at the committee meeting on 7 March 2018 (question No 23405). As far as my observations on this subject are concerned, as you already asked me, I am making my own those that the government made on 7 September 2018 and in particular, as I explained, that "Belgium should remain a major player in the areas of particle accelerators, new materials, advanced material testing, etc." Scientists and researchers have stressed the need to maintain knowledge in the nuclear field in the context of our gradual exit from nuclear energy, in order to allow responsible management of spent fuel from our nuclear power plants and thus comply with our legal and moral obligation to ensure, on a graduated basis, a high level of safety in the long-term management of these materials in order to avoid leaving undue burdens to future generations. This time interval and infrastructure will also enable scientists to develop useful solutions for radioactive waste management. From a socio-economic point of view, the socio-economic impact of MYRRHA in terms of value-added creation, in its entirety, is estimated at €6.4 billion over its lifetime until 2065. This impact is divided between construction for a total of EUR 1.5 billion (23%) and the impact generated by a total of EUR 4.9 billion (77%). Moreover, it has been found that many collaborations have already taken place since the origin of the MYRRHA project between the SCK-CEN and the universities, research centres and Belgian sister organisations, such as UCL, MRIM, VKI, KU Leuven, UGent, ULB, ULg, VUB, UZ Leuven, or foreign authorities. More than 100 PhD or Master's theses were done on the MYRRHA project between 1998 and 2018. In this dossier, as in other dossiers, the government places innovation and engagements in strategic and structural investment at the heart of its action.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u8	I have a small technical question, following on from Mr Wilrycx's question. Because the government is in ongoing business, the new structural funding of MYRRHA has not yet started, if I am not mistaken?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u9	Structural financing is guaranteed by the decision I mentioned to you. Of course, its implementation in a system of provisional twelfths, in which funds are released on a quarterly basis, requires agreements with the Minister of Budget. We're discussing it. I will of course keep you informed of the decision that will be taken, since we are in the first quarter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u10	Madam Minister, thank you for the explanation. In this respect, we should perhaps consider current matters as an opportunity, because I am quite sceptical about the new subsidy. In any case, it is not politically evident to launch such mega-subsidies in current cases. Moreover, there are a number of serious reasons for doubting this today. You yourself have said how much MYRRHA has already cost for the basic operation of the SCK, while perhaps other things could happen with that basic operation, such as extending the centre into a key player and becoming a top in nuclear safety and decommissioning. I will go over the report again, but a good amount of own resources has already gone to MYRRHA. More importantly, many public funds have so far gone to MYRRHA and not to the hoped-for success. After all, you are telling a very different story today than what has been told to us so far. You say that there are no foreign resources yet because the foreign partners are waiting for a structural commitment from Belgium and that you now hope that this structural commitment will provide for those foreign partners. That is your story now, whereas earlier it was the story that subsidies over the past few years served to initiate international cooperation and financial partnerships. That was the idea. Colleague Wilrycx can confirm that. That is why the Belgian government has subsidised MYRRHA for a number of years, but even this multi-annual subsidy has not yet produced any financial agreement. You confirm that today. No financial agreement was concluded around MYRRHA, after we have already invested more than EUR 150 million of SCK funds and public funds in that project. What kind of project can such treatment be expected in Belgium? And now you say that you want to open your checkbook even in current cases for the next ten, fifteen, even twenty years, if I am not mistaken. In my view, this is neither an act of good governance nor a well-thought-out energy policy. We'll look into this. I will question the Minister for the Budget on this in order to ensure that funding cannot take place. In this way, this will be a decision that belongs to the next government. This not only has to do with our substantive concerns, but it also has to do with proper governance. I don't think it's up to this government of pending cases to open a checkbook for a long time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u11	Madam Secretary, thank you for your detailed answer. You will not be surprised that I do not agree with Mr Calvo's statement. You have clearly described the importance of nuclear research and applications in Belgium. You have listed various applications and I think it is important to continue to play a leading role in this area in the future. We are world leaders in this respect. It's important to stay that way. We are also very pleased that the Minister approved structural funding in September. It is a pity that the government has fallen and we have had to move to provisional twelfths. I hope that you will get out with the Minister for the Budget, Mrs Wilmès, and that you can guarantee the structural funding of MYRRHA. This can attract other players abroad. We are satisfied with this decision by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u12	Questions Nos 27981 by Mr Daniel Senesael and 27999 by Mrs Karin Temmerman are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u13	Minister, I will not be long since we take stock every time you come to committee. We know that a draft bill has been sent to the Council of State. The latter delivered an opinion on the draft legislation in early November. In addition, the Council of Ministers has asked you to make proposals to strengthen the first text. As you stated at the December 18th Committee on the Economy, the Nuclear Supplies Commission (NPC) delivered an opinion in mid-December on the second bill you drafted. My questions are about timing because we know that it is absolutely necessary to pass something under this legislature in relation to the guarantee of these nuclear supplies. Minister, will you pass the first text to the Council of Ministers for second reading so that the House can examine and amend it? I think that if we already have the opinion of the Council of State, we can make progress if the government or Parliament adds amendments to the committee. We can work in dialogue and partnership on these bills. With respect to the second bill, the last time you were questioned, the lawyers were still in full drafting. Can you now provide us with the detailed content of the NPC's opinion? Can you also detail the timing, minister, because there are only eight weeks left and eight plenary sittings before the end of the legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u14	Madam Minister, Mr Lalieux has outlined the history and highlighted the importance of rapid cooperation on this issue. You just said you'd like to get the green light for the funds for MYRRHA. However, the issue of nuclear facilities is even more urgent. We must achieve not only a budgetary but, above all, a legislative breakthrough there. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to examine the exact state of affairs with you. How do you see this cooperation with Parliament? Do you really want to work on that? I would also like to look at the negotiations that have taken place with the operators on this subject. What arrangements have been made, if any? Madam Minister, I particularly hope that you will correctly assess the seriousness of the situation. Perhaps a temporary working group within this committee can decide on this. We have been able to make use of the Commission's proposal on nuclear facilities. We have submitted it to the Chamber with a number of adjustments that we believe we should make. If we can work together in this area, we are happy to do so. However, it is something that we absolutely must do before the dissolution of Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Lalieux is well aware of the retroacts, Mr Calvo perhaps a little less. I will therefore remind them of the context and, in this way, answer your questions. First of all, as you said, I have tabled the bill drawn up by the Committee on Nuclear Supplies, which I had mandated for that purpose and which had appointed a law firm - the Stibbe cabinet - to carry out this project, in the form of a preliminary draft at the Council of Ministers on 26 July 2018. On that occasion, the Committee took several important decisions. The first was the need to approve this preliminary draft, so that no one could ignore its content. The second was to submit it to the Council of State for its opinion and then to resubmit it to the Council of Ministers; to entrust me with the task of presenting in IKW the outcome of ENGIE's proposals; to provide a guarantee mechanism to ensure that the latter will cover nuclear provisions in the event of an operator's default; to present - between the first and second readings of this preliminary draft - an amendment which would strengthen it. In short, my mandate was to consolidate the PNC bill. In this context, through a public procurement which appointed lawyer Xavier Dieu, who is also a professor at the ULB, I have examined three points at the request of the Council of Ministers. I take up the specifications which had been drawn up: 1. The legal and financial measures that the Belgian State can take to make ENGIE's parent company more responsible for nuclear supplies - not the operator alone. 2. How to strengthen control over the use, perimeter, guarantees and recovery of loaned assets and assets - the famous 75%. 3. An international comparison of the modes of provisioning - for example, with Switzerland, Spain, Finland or the United Kingdom - both as internal and external funds, their governance and control. In addition, this comparison could be used to strengthen the preliminary draft. The same Council of Ministers agreed to the appointment of an external cabinet to assist me, I have just spoken about it. The aim was to examine the legal possibilities to extend the base of guarantees to the whole ENGIE group and to enable the Belgian State to deal, by all means of law, with any actions which the ENGIE group would take in the event of its action to organise itself in order to escape the legal obligations imposed on its subsidiary, in the framework of the Act of 11 April 2003. The opinion of the Council of State was requested for the preliminary draft CPN on 27 July 2018, with a period of 30 days extended automatically until 12 September. Finally, you will recall that the Council of State took a little longer to send us its opinion, which we received on 8 November in its provisional version and on 20 November in its final version. Overall, the opinion contains a small number of formal comments and additional clarifications, which is not resounding. In accordance with the decision of the Council of Ministers, the external cabinet has been designated, which has identified several legislative amendments that will strengthen, as requested, the draft CPN legislation and which have been incorporated into a new alternative text. The CPN, to whom I asked, delivered an opinion on this alternative text on November 21, 2018. In general, she pointed out that the work that had led to the preparation of the February draft law - that is, their own draft - was essentially taken up and strengthened in the text. Of course, the full letter will come to you, what you ask. Then you know very well what happened at the government level, but we continued our work and a meeting in IKW took place last week to review both texts. A future Kern will look at the way forward on this issue. My cabinet is in the process of finalizing the note on this subject, the aim of which is of course to arrive at Parliament with a bill because it is the engine that we must use for this text to come to Parliament. I suggest that there be a bill called CPN with amendments from the second text, so that this problem can be dealt with as quickly as possible. Colleagues, this is my proposal in Kern. I haven't discussed it yet at the Kern level. Therefore, I cannot prejudge that it will necessarily go in that direction. But that's what I imagined to be the most effective and quickest way to make progress on this issue. As I have already indicated in early July and September, especially to you, Mrs. Lalieux, the operator had the opportunity to talk with the CPN and myself on the subject, regardless of the text. I would also like to invite you to review our exchange and my response to point 10.05 of this committee's report of 4 July 2018. In particular, I stressed that the basic principle was that future generations did not have to pay the least one hundred euros for the costs of dismantling and downstream of the fuel cycle, but that this cost should be borne in full by the operator, in accordance with the polluter-pays principle. The exchanges with ENGIE did not lead to any convincing result calling for changes to the text - neither of them - except to strengthen it even further. It's finally what happened. You know that because I've already said it several times. As far as I am concerned, in this question which I consider to be a regal question, there is no question of pushing anything or going in a different direction from strengthening, both in substance - in the means and tools of prudential control granted to the CPN - and in form - in legal certainty - in order to anticipate any recourse and to ensure that the basis on which we could rely in terms of responding is the broadest possible basis with the ENGIE guarantee.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u16	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. I support you. I'm not a member of the Kern - not yet. In any case, the CD&V and the Open Vld are your only partners in the Kern. I support your proposal to introduce the bill and the amendments, so that we can have a real discussion here in committee quickly, so that we can move forward on these nuclear supplies. We should not end this Parliament without clear lines and beacons, so that future generations do not have to pay for the dismantling of power plants. ENGIE must also be given a clear signal. I hope that this will be on the agenda of the next Kern, and that it will be tabled very quickly in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u17	Madam Minister, my reply is in line with Mr Lalieux's and I would like to comment on your proposal for a working method. If this method were to be accepted in the nuclear cabinet, it would be interesting if the text were already delivered to us through the secretariat. After all, the committee's agenda is fairly full. On the shelf are also the capacity mechanism and matters relating to the economy and the self-employed. Maybe it's a piste to deliver it as soon as possible and to call together a technical working group. In this way we can do as much as possible in anticipation of the actual discussion in committee. We do indeed need countries on this issue. Our group has a number of ideas in this area and would like to share them with the other groups and discuss them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u18	Minister, the capacity of the new interconnection between Great Britain and Belgium, Nemo Link, will be available from January 30, 2019 through the Day-Ahead Energy Auction. The first quantity of energy can therefore be delivered on 31 January. I guess it's done because my question is earlier than that date. This good news comes in the somewhat special context of Brexit. Indeed, the likelihood of an exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union without agreement is becoming increasingly high. Can you therefore explain to this committee what would be the consequences for electricity exchanges via this interconnection if our British friends were to go to English? In addition, another interconnection project with Great Britain, Nautilus, is currently under consideration. Would a hard Brexit ring the bell?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u19	"Will it ring the bell?" As Hemingway said.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u20	Madam Minister, the new cable between Belgium and Great Britain will be put into operation this quarter and will allow for an interconnection of 1000 megawatts of extra exports or imports. However, on 29 March 2019, the United Kingdom will in principle leave the European Union. It does indeed seem that it could become a hard Brexit. Then there are a number of risks around the corner, including for the energy market. This was also made clear recently by the CREG when discussing the 2019 budget. Indeed, if UK energy production is no longer part of the integrated market, prices in the United Kingdom could increase significantly, which could reduce the profitability of the interconnection. Madam Secretary, is there an impact of the Brexit on the prices of energy flowing through the Nemo Link Connection? Are there any additional charges for applications that could be imposed by the World Trade Organisation in the event of a hard Brexit? What is the impact on the profitability of the cable? What will be the impact on the Belgian energy market if the United Kingdom leaves the European Union at the end of March? What impact will the exit have specifically on the new Nemo Link interconnection? What is the cost of the different possible scenarios? At the inauguration of the interconnection, Elia's top man, Chris Peeters, said that a second connection with the British is already on the drawing board. How concrete are the plans? What steps are still to be taken in this regard?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u21	Dear colleague, Nemo Link is the first interconnector connecting our country directly to the UK. Since the end of January, this infrastructure allows us to achieve a physical exchange of energy with it. On the basis of price signals, it is determined hour by hour whether the electricity will be exported or imported. This is a complement to the Day-Ahead market connection, already existing between the continent and the United Kingdom, which used to take place through the United Kingdom-France-United Kingdom-Netherlands interconnectors. This offers added value to limit the price of energy and increase security of supply in both countries. (Nemo Link) In the absence of a final agreement on Brexit, the impact on this interconnection is difficult to estimate. However, I can reassure you that even in the case of a hard Brexit, the exchange of electricity between Belgium and the United Kingdom is still possible. In April 2018, the European Commission published a stakeholder note, in which it commented on the impact of Brexit on the internal energy market and in which stakeholders were encouraged to take the necessary preparedness measures. In general, I can tell you that the planned integration of Nemo Link will, in the worst case, be replaced, in the implicit connection of the European market, by an explicit allocation of interconnection capacities. Elia, with the support of DG Energy and CREG, and in close consultation with the UK counterparts, is currently preparing the necessary measures and methods to allow this passage: among others, IT tools, market rules, etc. In this context, a public consultation has already taken place last November. Therefore, in the worst case scenario, we are preparing to ensure the benefits that this infrastructure could offer to countries. In other words, if I have to go further in the description of these measures - and if you are interested - I will have to ask myself again, because I will first have to inform myself of the progress of the work carried out by Elia, DG Energy, CREG and know what is the situation of the British counterparts. That said, a priori, there is no difficulty in ensuring that this physical exchange of electricity continues, even in the case of hard Brexit. Subsequently, the Nautilus project was taken over by Elia - as an indication - in the federal development plan, which is at the final stage of its adoption. When the next quadrennial plan is drawn up, this project will be further examined in detail, since the consequences of Brexit will then be clearer. Like other investment programmes, this will be evaluated for a final investment decision.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u22	Minister, I take note of your decisions regarding the possibility of a hard Brexit. I hear this shouldn't change. However, have price guarantees been given for deliveries? Indeed, if the price increases, the profitability of the process will be called into question. You did not answer that question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u23	That is why I have indicated to you that, if you would like further details, I would be happy to come back to you in a later committee.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u24	All right!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u25	Madam Minister, the dossier must indeed be followed very closely. This interconnection is important. As security of supply is sometimes called into question here, it is very good that we can count on the additional interconnection. With regard to the price, I will certainly put forward another follow-up question, as you yourself said.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u26	Madam Minister, when we read the newspaper Le Soir on Friday 18 January, we learned that operator ENGIE Electrabel had sent you a letter on 11 January announcing that he was afraid to do without at least three reactors for the next winter: Doel 1, Doel 2, Tihange 1. Experience has taught us that unavailability is often accompanied by unforeseen failures. However, as history repeats itself to the end, you have again taken the decision not to provide a strategic reserve for the winter 2019-2020. Is the letter sent by Electrabel such as to make you reconsider your decision not to enter into a strategic reserve for next winter? If a strategic reserve is established, what capacity could you rely on? Outside the strategic reserve, will you take steps to anticipate this likely shortage?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u27	Madam Minister, on 15 January, you decided not to set a strategic reserve for the period from 1 November 2019 to 31 March 2020. A few days after that decision it was announced that Objective 1, Objective 2 and Tihange 1 will be shut down in the second half of this year as part of the extension of life. I have a number of questions on this, Madam Secretary. When were you informed of the unavailability of those three nuclear reactors? Has the operator also communicated the exact period when the three nuclear reactors will be shut down? If so, what is that period? You would not have taken note of the operator's announcement until after your decision not to create a strategic reserve. Is that right? Before the decision, have there been any contacts with the operator on the availability of the nuclear park? If so, why was the unavailability not communicated at that time? The required volume of the strategic reserve can be revised until 1 September. Have you asked the network operator for a new analysis? If so, what are the conclusions on the need to establish a strategic reserve or not? In your view, will a revision of the strategic reserve be necessary? Why is that? Why is that?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u28	Mr President, I will not repeat what my colleagues have said. There is therefore uncertainty about the availability of 2000 MW of nuclear capacity for the winter period 2019-2020. Minister, in light of these elements, do you intend to review your decision not to enter into a strategic reserve for the winter of 2019-2020?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u29	Madam Secretary, my questions are in line. On 15 January, there was a decision not to set up a strategic reserve, but afterwards it was announced that the plants Objective 1 and 2 and Tihange 1 would not be available in the winter, resulting in a large amount of nuclear capacity being lost. That was not yet known when you made the decision of 15 January. You ordered a new study, in which the new data was passed on. Do you have a closer look at that? Is the time of maintenance fixed for the three plants I mentioned? Or is there any possibility of moving there, as happened this year? Did you discuss the new situation in the task force you set up?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u30	ENGIE's confidential letter concerning the listed non-availability dates from 11 January 2019. That letter confirms the already known non-availabilitys of Tihange 1, until 27 November 2019, from Objective 1 to 27 December 2019 and from Objective 2 to 20 December 2019, in accordance with ENGIE's publications under REMIT. The non-availabilitys were already taken into account in Elia's analysis published in November 2018. In addition, the letter highlights the risk that the non-availabilitys published under REMIT will have to be extended beyond the 2019 to 2020 transition. ENGIE's letter is dated 11 January and the Ministerial Order of 15 January. It therefore falls within the meaning that I was aware of the necessary elements, after having had a reassessment made by Elia, in order to fix the strategic reserve. It is indeed a matter of saying that we have fixed it. In fact, we have set it at zero, which is not the same as not at all. Setting it to zero allows us, in the new legislation, to change it in line with developments in the situation. We expect to reassess the situation in September. We have therefore asked ENGIE to check its possibilities to move maintenance outside the winter period, and we will see at the appropriate time. I would like to recall that I have been maintaining the work of the Task Force from now until next winter, in order to be able to assess the situation step by step, in order to have a complete view in September, and to decide whether the strategic reserve should remain at zero as at present. I asked DG Energy, in collaboration with Elia and CREG, to determine the impact of the extension of these unavailabilitys on the required volume of strategic reserves 2019-2020.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u31	Madam Minister, thank you. You start your answer by saying that you have received a confidential letter. She was kept confidential for two days!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u32	It's always like that. That's why I insist.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u33	That was a free comment. On the other hand, I take note of your answer, which refers to the establishment of a zero strategic reserve, which can be revalued. But you have not answered me as to the question of the capabilities that could be added to this zero strategic reserve. Where to go for this energy, if we were to increase the strategic reserve for 2019-2020? It seems to me that you have already called on a lot of actors for this winter. Are there hidden reserves that could be operated? You told me that you were going to anticipate this likely shortage and that you were maintaining the task force. Where will you go to look for production capacity?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u34	Mr President, I have indeed answered in a stoning manner. I'm going to go into more detail. There are two problems. First, there is the evolution of the situation on the ENGIE side. Then, with the evaluations of DG, CREG and Elia – a growing work on which we want to have a precise view in September – there is the state of the market. Of course, what is in the market will remain there because it will cost the consumer less. We're going to do this evaluation. Based on the calculations made by these three institutions and the advice they will give me, we will see what non-market capacity can be used in a strategic reserve that would be above zero. Once we've gone to the end of what exists, as long as everything works, we can do it. We've proven it this winter. Everything that could work under ENGIE has been implemented. These capacities were mobilized in the market as the reserve was zero.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u35	Thank you, but I will return to the subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u36	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. I'm a little confused. On 15 January 2019 the strategic reserve was officially set at 0, but on 11 January there was a letter from ENGIE. Did you receive it on January 15th or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u37	Yeah, I had it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u38	You had that letter on January 15th, but no account has yet been taken of the new data?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u39	Yes, we did. I asked for a reassessment on the basis of this letter and took it into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u40	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u41	Mr. Chair, I thank the minister for her answer, but we will have to keep an eye on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u42	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. One more point. It is important that the communication that appears from each partner is correct and agreed within the task force, because often what one of the partners says has a great impact on the energy market. We often see these prices go up or down, depending on what the partners say. It is therefore important that good cooperation remains within the task force.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u43	Mr. Chair, Minister, the draft legislation establishing a capacity compensation mechanism was approved at the Council of Ministers on January 11. Have you received the opinion of the Council of State and when are you going to present this draft to Parliament? Just like nuclear supplies, there is an urgent need and we are ready to work with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u44	Mrs Lalieux, the Council of Ministers in Routine Affairs has approved the sending of the draft bill to the Council of State, whose opinion is expected on 12 February. I am still considering presenting this draft as soon as it comes from the Council of State and having it adopted before the end of the legislature. We will, of course, propose it to Parliament in the form of a bill.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u45	We'll be here to work, minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u46	Minister, CREG has pointed out that the unavailability of nuclear reactors has an impact on prices and that it is ultimately the consumers who will pay for the broken pots. I would like to know whether the government will respect its word and obtain compensation for consumers or whether it is simply a promise in the air made by the Prime Minister. What is the status of these negotiations with Electrabel?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u47	Mrs Lalieux, there is no negotiation possible in such matters as these, since we are looking for ways to act on the liability of the debtor. I told you that, technically, there are several solutions that are being considered by a law firm. In practical terms, namely the height of the damage, the CREG told us that we had to wait until we had a complete view of the entire winter, that is, two exercises, knowing that we have already received a notice from the CREG which is already visible on its site. This is a January 24th study on 2018 prices and their evolution. It will obviously be necessary to do the same exercise in 2019. It is this comparison that will give us the result.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u48	Minister, this is going to take a long time. I fear that consumers will be paying for two years, three years, six years anyway.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u49	Mrs Lalieux, that's all the damage and nothing but the damage. You know the law. It is accessible to everyone. That's the theory of responsibility. So we are not going to over-remove one to give the other in an exaggerated way. Just the damage!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u50	You know my position on the reduction of VAT. We've been repackaged! So the case is closed here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u51	Mr President, this is another question of timing. On 7 December last, the Council of Ministers approved a preliminary draft law aimed at launching the procedure for the construction of new offshore wind farms from 2020 onwards. Minister, have you received the advice of the Council of State? How long are you going to table it in Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u52	Madam Member, the draft bill concerns not the construction of new parks as such, but more specifically the organization of a competitive or tending procedure for granting concessions to future offshore wind farms to be built in the new 221-square-kilometre area in the North Sea and to achieve an installed capacity of 4 GW in 2030. In view of the formulation of the trending, the main aim is to create better competition, thus a better price for the consumer, who must also benefit from the evolution of this now mature technology. This preliminary draft law, which is a draft framework law, is the result of the implementation of the energy strategy decided on 20 April 2018. The opinion of the Council of State in its preliminary version was issued on 30 January 2019 and its final translated version was received yesterday at the end of the day (i.e. 5 February). It is now under review in my office, as well as in my colleague, the minister responsible for the North Sea, and by the administration. The preliminary draft was discussed no later than this morning in a consultation committee. It passed like a letter to the post office. And after taking into account the opinion of the Council of State, it will be examined in intercabinets meeting, then second reading in order to obtain the authorization to introduce it into Parliament and submit it to your debates.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u53	Madam Minister, thank you. I imagine that this is the same as the three other projects that have been mentioned and that you want to work for it as quickly as possible, so that it will be implemented by the end of the legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u54	The answer is yes!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u55	Madam Secretary, the coalition agreement states the agreement to introduce the energy standard. That intention was incorporated into the federal energy strategy of 30 March 2018. Before the fall of the government, you were working hard on a preliminary draft to introduce the energy standard. My questions are actually very simple. Where are you on the preparation of the bill? Is the lyrics almost ready? Can we expect that text in Parliament? We are looking forward to it, because we really want to do something about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u56	Mrs Dierick, I have no answer in Dutch, only in French. We can provide a Dutch answer, but now I can only give the answer in French. First of all, it should be recalled that the government agreement, when referring to the energy standard, begins by indicating the need for collaboration with federated entities. The first sentence of the agreement that speaks of the standard says: "The government will establish an energy standard in cooperation as much as possible with the federated entities." It should be noted that a standard that would be only federal has no meaning. The decrease in one component of the electricity bill could be offset by an increase in another component and would therefore render the transaction unnecessary. At the risk of repeating what I have already said on many occasions, in terms of how to act on prices, when a problem is detected (which is the virtue of a standard), the federal government has identified four items: the cost of electricity, the cost of transportation, offshore overload and the federal contribution. In relation to each of these components, we examined what can be done. For the price of electricity, we are powerless because it is fixed by the market. It is therefore, a priori, very difficult to act, but not impossible, since by developing our project of a mechanism for the remuneration of capacity, we intend not only to face the exit of nuclear power but also to bring about sufficient capacity. This offer, more suitable with demand, will play on the price of convenience. As far as offshore overload is concerned, a reform of the degression mechanism to adapt it to the guidelines of the European Commission is, as you know, under way. The aim here too is to preserve the purchasing power and competitiveness of electro-intensive enterprises. With respect to the federal contribution, we did not want to act to reduce it because, in fact, it funds funds to support sheltered residential clients. This is commonly referred to as the social tariff. We therefore preferred the cost of transportation in order to introduce a standard by means of an amendment to the Act. Last July, a text was discussed in a working group in order to propose a preliminary draft law with the aim of establishing, on the one hand, a monitoring of electricity prices and, on the other, a comparison of those practised in neighbouring countries. It is therefore from the point of view of protecting purchasing power and defending competitiveness that we have addressed the issue. Secondly, the text provided - in the event of price or competitiveness problems - for the regulator, namely CREG, to be entrusted with the means, with a guideline, to intervene on transport costs. As you know, a study common to all regulators should allow for this monitoring and tariff comparison. Their aim was, at our request, to set a schedule and determine the role of each. These actions are under way within FORBEG, the informal body hosting the consultation of regulators. The text I am talking about has not been approved, because it increases the burden on some companies that are large consumers. Since December 21, the government has been in day-to-day business. As a result, it no longer has the necessary majority to complete the development of an energy standard. The only initiative we have taken was to commission price monitoring and tariff benchmarking studies for neighbouring countries. That's the state of the matter!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u57	Madam Secretary, thank you for your comprehensive answer. Many steps have already been taken and I also realise that the government cannot intervene in all the components of the energy price. You explained that very well. It is a pity, of course, that the fall of the government has prevented us from continuing to work. Parliament can work on this. So we can work together. I believe that there is a great willingness in Parliament to take initiatives. The energy standard is an important aspect for both companies and families. We still have a number of weeks before we can get to work. As a Member of this House, I am certainly prepared to work on this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u58	Anyone affected by a leaking fuel oil tank and who has to pay for the cost of cleaning up the land will have to bear the costs. The Council of Ministers has approved a cooperation agreement with the Regions for the implementation and financing of the soil restoration of gas stations and gas oil tanks for heating purposes. The heavy costs could thus be recovered from that fund. What's the status? How much of the remaining funds from BOFAS will be transferred to the new PREMAZ Fuel Oil Fund? Will these resources be sufficient to meet demand? What steps do the various authorities, the Regions, still have to take to reach an agreement? When will private individuals be able to use this fund? Can legal persons also benefit from that aid?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u59	Mr Wilrycx, as far as your first question is concerned, a third call to service stations is being launched via BOFAS. As a result, the maximum available resources are used to clean up the gas stations. The maximum scenario for that call shall be evaluated at EUR 62 526 800. The reserve resources of BOFAS, less that amount, can be transferred to the new bottom-up fund for gas oil tanks to be set up. The balance is currently estimated at EUR 96 945 000. That available balance at BOFAS, with the exception of the amounts required for liquidation, may be transferred to the new PREMAZ fund after BOFAS has made the last payments linked to the third call. The resources available will not be sufficient to fully finance the PREMAZ Fund. Consequently, a further contribution will have to be paid by the consumer and/or producer after a certain period of time. As for your second question, the text has just been submitted to the respective parliaments of the three regions and I expect its adoption in March or April. As regards your third question, once the cooperation agreement has been published and entered into force, there will be a three-year notification period. As far as your last question is concerned, it is indeed the owner and thus the person responsible for the gas oil tank, who makes the request for intervention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u60	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. It is a good thing that there is finally a solution to the problems of leaking gas oil tanks that have been going on for years. For some people, the costs are very high. The text will be dealt with in the three regions. I hope that this legislative period will be completed so that the citizens concerned can submit their applications.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u61	Madam Minister, I have been trying for some time to get a closer look at the lifetime adjustments and related investments for Goal and Tihange. On 18 January 2019, ENGIE informed you by letter that three nuclear reactors may not be active during the next winter. ENGIE claims that a maintenance of Objectives 1 and 2 and Tihange 1 is planned to extend the life of the nuclear power plants. Through his spokesperson, Hellen Smeets, the electricity producer said: "So far, the three nuclear reactors in question, the oldest reactors in the country, will remain stationary until the second half of this year, but we would like to point out to the Minister that the works may take longer." ENGIE Electrabel also states that the company wishes to point out with the letter that the longer stay of the nuclear power plants are elements to be taken into account. For the time being, you wouldn't have taken any measures. I have the following questions, Madam Secretary. Can you give me an overview of the unavailability of Objectives 1 and 2 and Tihange 1 due to lifetime investments and unplanned shutdowns since the 10-year extension period of the plants started? When will the nuclear power plants stop before the LTO investments? Why were the investments not carried out earlier? Why are the LTO works not carried out in the summer when the risk of supply problems is much less? In the meantime, can you give me an overview of all the LTO investments carried out so far, including the cost? Can you give me an overview of all the LTO investments that have yet to be carried out and their planning? What measures will you take or will you take to rule out the possibility of power shortages in the coming winter?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u62	Mr President, Mr Calvo, in your first two questions, you want to get an overview of the unavailability of Doel 1 and 2 and Tihange 1. The ENGIE platform for market transparency REMIT contains all information on planned stops up to and including 2022. According to information provided by Electrabel, the latest LTO projects will be carried out in the revision that will begin in 2019. According to Electrabel, these investments cannot be carried out earlier for the following reasons. Firstly, the operator has always optimally planned the LTO projects, taking into account the legal framework conditions and requirements imposed by the Authority. Secondly, the modalities for LTO projects were also laid down in an RB. Thirdly, the LTO programmes are being implemented under the supervision of the FANC. Fourthly, in the context of security of supply this winter, we had also, in agreement with the Federal Nuclear Control Agency, limited the scope of the previous Tihange 1 revision to the most important safety work. Consequently, it is the work of lesser importance that is postponed until the next revision. For more technical details, please refer to my colleague, responsible for nuclear safety. Fourthly, there are seven nuclear power plants in Belgium, all of which must be provided with minimum annual or monthly maintenance. The modalities for this are laid down by law. That doesn't make it obvious to fit all these maintenance stops in a year, especially if a long standstill is needed in the context of LTO investments, as is still the case in 2019. The standstills of the plants in Tihange 2, Objective 3 and Tihange 1 all fall somewhere in the summer months. It is therefore not the case that no maintenance work is planned during the summer months. Work schedules also depend on the delivery of parts and the availability of experienced subcontractor services for some work. In accordance with the Royal Decrees of the LTO of the plants, the projects in the three plants concerned should in principle be implemented by the end of 2019. Therefore, the maintenance stops will last even longer next year. To your questions five and six concerning the investments already carried out or to be carried out, the investments under the LTO Tihange 1 amount to about 600 million euros and 700 million euros for Objectives 1 and 2. In Objectives 1 and 2, 85% of these investments were already made and 70% in Tihange 1. Finally, with regard to your seventh question on the measures put in place to avoid a shortage next winter, as I said earlier in replying to another speaker, a security of supply task force met on 31 January 2019. We agreed that the structure and composition of this task force would be maintained by next winter and next winter to monitor this situation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u63	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u64	Madam Secretary, this is an annual recurring question as far as I am concerned. It deals with the export of nuclear material, for which the Advisory Committee on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, in the popular name of CANVEK, should give an opinion. Firstly, can you give an overview for 2018 of the authorisations granted for the export of nuclear goods and technology, indicating the time, country and nature of the goods? Secondly, can you also give an overview of the refused files for that period, including the same information? Thirdly, can you outline the evolution of the number of authorisations granted and the number of files refused for the past five years? Fourthly, has the law of 9 February 1981 been infringed in the last five years? What is the outcome of the judicial investigation into the export of depleted uranium gamma-graphy devices to Iran, a file from 2010? What lessons have been drawn from this for the functioning of the CANVEK? Fifthly, has there been any draft cooperation agreement on nuclear exports? Have you had discussions with the Regions on the problem? When do you expect to formalise the cooperation agreement? Sixthly, what other initiatives to improve the CANVEK are in the pipeline?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u65	Mr President, even now I only have the answer in French. To answer the first question, in the course of 2018, 29 authorizations for exports of nuclear and dual-use nuclear goods were signed. In particular, they dealt with the following requests: 1. ten exports of rotary press elements (two to China, three to Russia, one to the United States, one to Argentina, one to Canada, one to Kazakhstan and one to South Korea); 2. an export of hot isostatic presses to India; 3. an export of sodium diuranate to the United States; 4. Two exports of reference material (one to China and one to South Korea); 5. fourteen licensed aluminium exports (six to India, four to Israel, and four to China); 6. Technology transfer to China. In the course of 2018, three refusals to authorise applications for exports of nuclear and dual-use nuclear goods were signed. They dealt with the following requests: - a hot isostatic press export to India; - two exports of hot isostatic presses to China. The evolution of the number of authorisations granted and the number of refusals in the previous five years is as follows: - in 2014, eight authorisations were granted and none were refused; - in 2015, 16 authorisations were granted and none were refused; - in 2016, 15 authorisations were granted and three were refused; - in 2017, fourteen authorisations were granted and two were refused; - in 2018, 29 authorisations were granted and three were refused. With regard to the irregular export mentioned in my answer to your questions Nos 15690 and 23140, it has been communicated that customs have concluded a transaction. An analysis of the situation with respect to the export of high-quality aluminum led to the inclusion of these exports in the federal authorization procedure, which also explains the increase in the number of permits in 2018. With regard to the fraudulent export of radiography equipment to Iran, the investigation is still under way. I refer to my answer to your question No 15690 on the CANPAN approach, in order to avoid this situation in the future. During 2018, an interdepartmental foreign policy conference discussion was held. No problems have been encountered with respect to cooperation between the different regions and the federal authority. The analysis of the regulatory framework by specialized external lawyers was completed in 2018. The translation of the law into a concrete bill and its implementing decrees has not yet been initiated. Given the technicality of this process, this initiative will be prepared for the next legislature.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u66	I would like to thank the Minister for her reply and would like a written version of her reply, so that we can have all the information available.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u67	Madam Minister, it is a matter for our group to question the government about its initiatives on battery technology and battery production in its own country. This is very important for a system of renewable energy. Production will take place worldwide and the question arises where it will take place, here or elsewhere. The European Commission is well aware of this challenge/opportunity and therefore launched the EU Battery Alliance in October 2017, a Commission plan to further expand battery production in Europe. In my exchanges of views with the Prime Minister on the investment plan, I regularly drew attention to this. As far as we are concerned, attracting battery production is an absolute spearhead of a sensible investment strategy. It's just waiting for government initiatives to make that concrete. However, there are Belgian players who can submit the necessary nobility letters in this area. So there are building blocks, but for the time being the necessary political initiatives are lacking to get to work on this. Madam Minister, what has been the Belgian contribution to the preparation of this plan for the EU Battery Alliance so far? What are the government's priorities in this area? What efforts have been made in recent months to enable large-scale battery production in the home country? Do you not think it is necessary to deepen and implement the ambitions in this area?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1030x.u68	Mr Calvo, the European Alliance for Batteries was established in October 2017 by Vice-President Sefcovic of the European Commission, together with some EU Member States, in addition to Belgium, Germany, France, Finland and so on, the European Investment Bank and industry representatives. For Belgium, these include Solvay and Umicore. The approach is that the development of a battery industry for the European Union should be a strategic priority, both in industrial and climate terms. Only the European scale can allow us to compete with international players such as China. I have expressed my support for the European Commission on this initiative. The Ministers for Economic Affairs of France, Germany, Italy and Poland, in turn, sent a joint letter to the Commission with concrete action points on which they wish to work. Minister of Economy Peeters and I have written to these countries to inform them that Belgium is supporting the initiative. In early February 2018, the Belgian Permanent Representation to the European Union organised a high-level stakeholder consultation on the Roadmap for a European Alliance for Batteries. In June 2018, a round table was organised by the Federal Public Service Economy. The aim of this round table was to gain an insight into how Belgian companies could be more involved in the initiative. Companies were specifically asked to raise problems and actions on various related themes such as raw materials, recycling, production, infrastructure, financing, etc. At the initiative of the Vice-President of the European Commission, Maros Sefcovic, the countries of the EU Battery Alliance, including Belgium, and representatives of their industry met in Brussels on 15 October 2018 to discuss the wave forward in the development of a European battery industry. In December 2018, another round table was organised by the FPS Economy with the relevant Belgian regional and federal administrations of Economy, Innovation, Environment and Energy. The aim of this round table was to understand the actions and measures currently being taken by the various administrations and how to cooperate. A written consultation on this matter is ongoing. The Belgian coordination of this transversal dossier was ensured by the services of the Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Peeters. In reply to your second and third questions, a strategic action plan for batteries was launched by the European Commission on 17 May 2018. That plan includes the following six strategic areas of action. Firstly, guaranteeing sustainable raw materials. Secondly, support for European projects covering various segments of the battery value chain, including the production of cells. Thirdly, strengthening industrial leadership by providing more EU support for research and innovation across the entire value chain. Fourthly, ensuring highly skilled workers in all parts of the battery value chain. Fifth, supporting a sustainable battery value chain, i.e. requirements for safe and sustainable battery production as an important engine for EU competitiveness. Sixthly, ensuring coherence with the broader supportive and regulatory framework. As already mentioned, there is currently a written consultation with all relevant administrations, both federally and regionally, in order to gain insight into the various powers, ongoing actions and planned measures in Belgium in the six strategic areas of action. At the moment, I cannot give any more information about this. As Federal Minister for Energy, I can report that the European Strategic Action Plan on Batteries concerned does not contain a specific strategic field of action on federal energy aspects, but my services do follow up on the subject, especially in view of the interesting policy opportunities that performant batteries and related battery applications may entail in the context of the desired transition of the Belgian energy sector. I am thinking in particular of the importance of batteries for the further breakthrough of electric vehicles and the expansion of large-scale energy storage, such as home batteries and battery parks, as part of the flexibilisation of our energy system. To this end, two ENOVER working groups are also active, namely ENOVER-Transport and ENOVER-Water Energy Storage, following these themes and consulting regional energy administrations. In addition, the General Energy Directorate is also responsible for the Energy Transition Fund, which aims to encourage and support research and development in the field of energy. Within the framework of the Energy Transition Fund, the General Directorate for Energy organises an annual call for proposals aimed primarily at supporting innovative research projects within the federal energy powers, such as renewable energy in the Belgian exclusive economic zone in the North Sea, biofuel, nuclear energy, security of supply and grid balance. The budget of the Energy Transition Fund for 2019 amounts to 30 million euros. This budget can be allocated as a subsidy to projects, including those related to batteries, in the context of security of supply and the balance of networks. Projects involving battery applications such as METIS and BREGILAB have already been selected in the previous project calls. Finally, I can also say that discussions are currently taking place with France and Germany, among others, in order to further concreteise and strengthen our cross-border cooperation on batteries in the short term.
