ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u1	Minister, on November 16th, a number of new train lines linking Belgium and France were inaugurated. The first trains started running from 9 December. This is the first time in more than 20 years that conventional trains, not TGVs, connect the two countries. So it fills a missing link between our two countries. These links are mainly aimed at workers, border students, but also tourists. Two daily connections will be made in both directions. The advantage is important: on the one hand, prices will be lower than those for high-speed trains; on the other hand, bookings will no longer be compulsory. Finally, there is no need for Walloons to travel to Brussels to join France. For these reasons, I warmly welcome this initiative. A few questions, however, come to mind. First of all, does this new project definitely bury the hope that one day Thalys will return to Wallonia? Secondly, what are the costs of these new lines and how will they be distributed between the two countries? How many users are expected in the first year? Finally, are new links of this type planned in the long term between our two countries?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u2	Dear colleague, I have already answered this type of question on November 28, 2018. On your first question and in a synthetic way, this is not an alternative to Thalys and the use of Thalys is not at all in question. Take the example of Benelux trains and classic trains driving towards Amsterdam: a Thalys is driving towards Amsterdam. This is not incompatible at all and I would even say that it is complementary. Secondly, it should be noted that the Hauts-de-France Region, which is taking over regional trains, whose train in the coming months, was particularly interested, in the same way as we, on the Belgian side, because many French workers crossed the border to come to Belgium. Furthermore, as you said, this does not require a reservation. The price is very attractive. The study on cross-border subscription is coming to an end, but it will also be attractive. Be aware that the inhabitants of the Hauts-de-France Region are particularly interested in being connected with Belgium, whether with Charleroi, Namur, Brussels, Mons and university centres. As far as we are concerned, there are university centres in Saint-Quentin, Compiègne and of course Paris. In short, I wanted to find a pragmatic solution to re-establish such a link that existed in the past and was indeed very attractive in view of the number of travellers who frequented it. It was abolished at the advent of the Thalys Brussels-Paris. It is a train called "for all" unlike Thalys which is intended for a target audience. That's what I wanted to answer. In the case of possible take-overs by the SNCB and, on the French side, by the Hauts-de-France region and no longer by the SNCF or the State, the proportion is 40% on the Belgian side and 20% on the French side, if there were to be a deficit. In any event, I think that all people in the regions crossed are satisfied with the service offered. A review will be made within a year or two, also knowing that the goal is to have a direct link, without breaking the load at Maubeuge. So far, correspondence has been assured, except twice as a result of incidents on the French side. People then missed their connections, but local solutions to repatriate people by car to Belgium were put in place by SNCF.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u3	Mr Minister, I thank you, and I can only abound in your sense, every time we strengthen the links between Belgium and France, especially on the human level. Let us not forget that this whole northern region was Belgian until 1667. I can only congratulate you that human ties can be strengthened through you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u4	The opposite was the case, since Wallonia was the department of the Entre-Sambre-et-Meuse of Napoleon's time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u5	Mr President, Minister, a few days ago, on November 24, a citizens' meeting was held to establish a short list of claims regarding line 96 between Mons and Quévy. The issues of punctuality and correspondence on this line were discussed, as well as SNCB's new transport plan 2020-2023. This line has been known for several years for its problems of delay. In 2016, you called on experts to work, among other things, on this line. You also asked for a new plan to be launched. According to many commuters, the situation has not since been improved. My question dates back to November and I find that in January the situation improved. Minister, can you provide an update on this matter? First of all, regarding this meeting on November 24, have you ever received specific claims? If so, what are your reactions to them? With regard to the problems observed on this line, how do you think it has evolved over the last two years? Can or should new measures be taken in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u6	Mr Flahaux, first of all, I would like to point out that the meeting on 24 November was held at the initiative of the working party on line 96, which was supervised by commuters.be. SNCB and Infrabel were invited to attend, but only the first one attended – as well as a member of my firm. The working group sent three questions by e-mail on May 10, 2018. These were discussed at the meeting on 24 November. They concern the setting up of a service schedule during the weekend, the extension of the hourly amplitude at the end of the day and the improvement of punctuality or, failing that, the reinforcement of the guarantees of correspondence at Mons station for users travelling from or to Quévy. The request for service at the weekend was also submitted to SNCB by my firm during the first half of the year. The company took up the first two points in its studies of the 2020-2023 transport plan. Actions relating to punctuality and respect for correspondence are the subject of short-term analyses and actions. With regard to punctuality, Infrabel informs me that incidents explain the fall between 2017 and 2018. In other words, this decline is not structural. With regard to the work at the Mons station, which has a strong impact on rail service, SNCB informs me that it regularly consults with Infrabel in order to plan the important work as efficiently as possible, with a view to limiting their impact on punctuality. Moreover, an adaptation of the furrows is to be studied at the station of Quévy and at the entrance of that of Mons. SNCB adds that it also gives priority to reducing the number of rolling stock damage. As far as adhesion problems are concerned, the two companies indicate that they take additional measures during autumn and winter according to weather forecasts, and commit themselves to minimise the risks associated with autumn and winter phenomena, including leaf fall and frost.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u7	Minister, thank you for your question. In January, I found that the trains were even in advance! Of course, they did not leave earlier than the scheduled time, but at least they arrived three or four minutes before the announced time. I find this very appreciative. I take note of the list you provided us at the moment.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u8	Minister, weeding the railway tracks is an imperative for safety. Otherwise, weeds could distort the structure of the tracks and cause accidents. At present, this operation is carried out in the spring thanks to the passage of weeding trains which spray the tracks and the landings with a solution based on glyphosate. This would have reduced the amount of herbicides used by 30% in ten years. As far as land such as slope is concerned, mechanical operations are carried out. In some cases, Infrabel even uses sheep, as you explained in a previous answer. As far as pathways are concerned, however, there is to date no alternative to herbicide. Minister, at a time when gyphosate is increasingly being called into question at all levels and where it is being accused of causing cancer, what is Infrabel's policy in this area? Are any research being carried out to find an alternative solution? In concrete terms, are there any avenues that have already been explored? Is there a timetable for the end of use of this product? Minister, thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u9	Madam President, Mr Flahaux, the infrastructure manager attaches great importance to the protection of the fauna and flora present along the railways and on the sites of which he is the owner. Biodiversity is also one of the priority environmental themes of Infrabel's 2018-2020 environmental policy plan. The reduction in the use of these products is also part of the plan. Pesticides are only used in places where weeds have an impact on the safety of rail traffic, railway employees and passengers and where there is no alternative. In this regard, Infrabel strictly complies with legal obligations in consultation with the regional authorities. In order to further reduce the use of pesticides, a large number of practical pilot projects are being set up in the rail sector in order to analyse the feasibility of alternative techniques such as, for example, mowing or manual grubbing-up, which seems a bit difficult on 3 200 km of tracks...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u10	I think so, too.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u11	But also the feasibility of preventive techniques, such as a hard coating to prevent weed growth. In these projects, financial, technical and operational conditions were defined with a distinction between railway-related land (signalling lodges, ICT cabinets, access runways and traction substations) and safety lanes and runways. These technologies will be implemented progressively over the next few years, with priority given to vulnerable natural areas. Planning and practical deployment are currently coordinated with the various regional authorities.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u12	Minister, thank you. I am fully satisfied with your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u13	Minister, a few weeks ago, at the start of 2018, the Train Map website was launched. A moving map is available on which passengers can locate their train at any time and consult the information for their attention. Travellers can search the route, train type, train station or train number. Once the train has been selected, information on the schedule, possible delay, planned stops and docks will be displayed. The current version of Train Map is based on measuring points placed in the tracks to adapt the information in real time. Geolocation and GPS signals will also be used in the future. Mr Minister, a few weeks after the opening of this new service - which I welcome as a Member of Parliament but also, and above all, as a user - can you already take a brief look at us? First of all, is this site a success? What was the expected traffic and what is it ultimately? Is there a positive or negative trend in the number of visitors since its posting? It was announced when the site was activated that new features would arrive soon. What are they and what are the timetables? Finally, what is the annual cost of this new service?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u14	Dear colleague, SNCB informs me that the results of a survey conducted on the train and online reveal that the first users largely consulted Train Map out of curiosity. Users who continue to use this site later do so mainly during the trip or just before, to check where the train they are waiting for, if it is in motion, how much delay it is, etc. The visual presentation is described as accessible. It helps travellers get an idea of their trip. Sometimes they detect that their train, even if it's on time, will arrive late. You've seen a number of articles. But some trains announced late recover this delay during the journey. So the site really allows you to follow your train in real time. The current average use of the site ranges from 3,000 to 4,500 users per day on weekdays and from approximately 2,500 users on weekends. This is a shame because we need to connect this with the 800,000 daily travellers. SNCB notes that peaks of site use occur mainly during peak morning and evening hours. Train Map has been available not only via the website but also via the SNCB app for the last few weeks. As a result, the number of users increases from week to week. The version of Train Map that was launched in September was a basic version. According to SNCB, the added value of Train Map will increase as additional features are added. The return received from travellers has mainly detected many new potential features that are likely to provide them with increased added value during or just before their train trip. The features with the highest added value will be developed in 2019: geolocation, a more correct indication of the train's position, optimisation of the algorithm to determine the train's position and the use of GPS and Galileo data, presentation of information on train composition, presentation of information on map disturbances, presentation of information on railway work on the map. SNCB indicates that Train Map is part of a broad budget for passenger information. Developments in the Train Map functions that will occur will also be used to enrich the travel planner and other information channels. I would also point out that the whole "digitization, information and organisation phase" represents a budget of €260 million over five years with the release of a new application every three months. This is what SNCB wishes to register for the passenger service.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u15	Minister, of all the questions I have asked, this is probably one of the most essential for the traveller. For two things are important: know how and make known. This site may need to be further popularized since 80% of people have a smartphone. This makes it possible to communicate, to make known and, finally, to reassure, because the one waiting for a traveller can also see where the latter is. It is an excellent implementation and I congratulate you on that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u16	Minister, on November 14, 2018, Infrabel tested the use of a drone, out of sight of its pilot and at night, to combat cable theft. Unfortunately, we have seen that cable thefts have again started in recent times. This flight took place in the vicinity of the 132 Charleroi-Mariembourg line. To do this test, Infrabel had obtained an exemption from the Air Transport Branch (ADB). At present, the legislation does not allow this to be done. "Out-of-view" pilotage is still prohibited for the time being, and the Cameras Act does not allow for aerial surveillance operations using mobile cameras. Equipped with two cameras, one of which is thermal night vision, the drone tested is particularly effective in providing aerial surveillance, which would be an asset in the fight against cable theft, according to the railway company. The Commission would therefore like to see legislation evolve in order to be able to better combat these flights, of which more than 260 were listed in 2018 alone, of which there was still a month and a half at the time of this calculation. My questions are as follows, minister. What feedback did you receive from this first test? Do you consider it appropriate to review the legislation in force in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u17	Mr Flahaux, I refer you to my answer to the question that was asked on November 28, 2018. According to Infrabel, the test confirmed the willingness to use this technology. On the other hand, our legislation will not be amended at the moment, as the European Commission is going to issue a regulation expected later this year. In any event, you will have noticed that we have recently opened in Flanders, Saint-Trond, and Wallonia, north of Namur, a drone testing area to derogate from all rules in a well-contained space - both for night flights and the simulation of commercial flights as well as for flights outside the pilot's field of vision. All these technologies are being developed to inform the European Council of the return offered by these experiments. It should be noted that our country, which has restrictive and strict legislation, including the basic knowledge of pilots, is part of the conquest of the world to carry out essential missions in the service of major international organizations. I must admit that we have expressed some reservations through the opinion we have communicated to the European Council. The principle in force in Belgium is that everything is prohibited, except for what is allowed to pilots with good theoretical and practical knowledge. On the contrary, the European Commission's regulation considers that everything is allowed, except for what is prohibited. When I say that everything is allowed, it means that we could buy 15 kilos of drones, go to the countryside and use these machines that can be used at long distances, without any training. This is why a balance must be struck between, on the one hand, the qualities of the operatives in operation and safety and, on the other, economic development. Moreover, the European Commission is following very closely the experiences we have in both Saint-Trond and Liernu, in different settings that we believe are essential for ensuring safety. On the day we reassure the authorities, the use of the drone will develop much more than is currently the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u18	Minister, thank you for your answer, which completely satisfies me.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u19	Mr President, on the occasion of the Black Friday on 23 November, SNCB proposed a more than attractive offer: round-trip tickets to all Belgian destinations for the modest sum of 5 euros, only on that day for journeys valid between 23 November and 14 December. Thousands of people visited the railway company's website, but SNCB announced at 10:30 p.m. that it was suspending the offer due to too much traffic. However, the offer had to be available until midnight, without any ticket limitations. A technical bug would cause the end of the action on the website, which explains why not all requests could be met. Many people did not receive their tickets after the transaction and access to the site remained problematic despite the solutions put in place on Friday night. It is obvious that these potential travellers were very unhappy. Complaints were filed. Changing the terms and conditions of an ongoing offer and changing its terms and conditions is not legally acceptable. Indeed, no ticket limits had been previously announced by SNCB. Minister, what really happened on November 23, 2018? How do you explain this technical bug? What action has been taken on complaints from potential clients? Are you planning to put in place a new action in 2019 in order to catch up with the failure of the Black Friday action?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u20	SNCB informs me that it has not changed an existing offer. His intention was to propose an unlimited number of tickets as of November 23, 2018. Although SNCB's sales systems were tested in advance to deal with a large number of visitors and were therefore prepared for a large number of purchases via the website and the application, a technical failure unfortunately caused the entire backend of the ticketing system to crash. It was this technical failure that meant that it was no longer possible to sell tickets via the website and the application. This therefore has nothing to do with changing the conditions of supply. SNCB adds that despite the many efforts made, it was not possible to re-establish the sales system before midnight. It was only during the night that everything was resolved and the sale was able to resume normally. SNCB concludes by stating that its customer service took care to explain to the passengers concerned the reasons for the incident and apologized to them. For customers who paid but did not get the ticket, the amount was refunded. In the context of a company that everyone wants to operate normally, it is not up to me as a minister to intervene in this business case. On the other hand, I have no doubt that management will learn from this incident to avoid such experience in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u21	Thank you for your answer. Even if one cannot interfere in commercial management, the enthusiasm and computer bug are proof that this approach has worked well and created crowds. It is the technical failure that is regrettable. Let's hope this kind of inconvenience doesn't happen again.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u22	Mr President, Minister, you recently announced your support for the project for a rail link between Aix-la-Chapelle and Liège via Heerlen and Maastricht. Bémol: the rolling stock used by the transport company Arriva does not meet Belgian safety standards. It is not equipped with the ETCS automatic train control system. Fortunately, you said that it was out of the question of lowering our demands on this matter. So, Minister, how do you see the situation? Do you think that this affair will, however, be possible to see the light of day? What is the status of the discussions now?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u23	Mr President, Mr Flahaux, first of all, I would like to confirm that, in accordance with the Rotterdam Declaration of June 2016 on the improvement of cross-border rail links between Belgium and the Netherlands, I have always supported the commissioning of a "three-country" train on the Aix-la-Chapelle-Maastricht-Liège link in the interests of passengers and provided that the safety and operating rules are respected. Mr Flahaux, I have received questions on this subject on several occasions. I would remind you that the National Safety Authority, which manages the traffic licences on the network in Belgium, is under the responsibility of the Minister Denis Ducrame, who has the responsibility of granting or not granting the authorisations of this train on Belgian territory. I therefore invite you to question my colleague.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u24	Minister, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u25	Mr President, since I have to go to the Social Affairs Committee, I turn my questions Nos 28281 and 28374 into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u26	Minister, I have asked a number of questions about the new double-deck trains. Everyone's looking forward to that. I think it's necessary, too. My previous question on the subject dates from the end of September 2018. I read in the newspaper that there would be a serious delay in the delivery of the new M7 double deck trains. The delay in the press is greater than what you replied to my question of 26 September 2018. At that time there was a maximum delay of four to six months. Now we are talking about a first delivery in mid-2019, which corresponds to a delay of at least 9 months. It is unclear what impact this delay will have before the end of the delivery planned at the end of 2022. This setback is particularly inconvenient as the punctuality figures do not evolve favourably. We heard that in the hearings two weeks ago. Minister, what are the contractual obligations of Bombardier if the first delivery takes place in mid-2019? Do they have to pay financial compensation or something like that? What impact does this delay have on the entire delivery schedule? Does the entire delivery period amount to more than nine months? What are the operational consequences for SNCB? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u27	In mid-October, the manufacturers informed SNCB that they were slowing down due to technical difficulties in the various validation and accreditation tests. For example, there are currently technical problems with the results of the brake tests and with the stability of the wheels. However, the contract provides for the possibility of increasing the cadence of the production of the carriages within certain limits. This means that the manufacturers have the possibility of gradually catching up with the delays incurred in the course of the project. In this context, SNCB urgently calls for a new, stable planning of the manufacturers, both in terms of activities for accreditation and validation as well as in terms of the delivery of carriages. According to the planning of the constructors currently available to SNCB, the last of the 445 ordered M7s will be delivered in the second semester of 2022. It is of course true that the delivery schedule of all trains is contractually fixed. The penalty system is part of that contract. However, SNCB is currently focusing as much as possible on assisting manufacturers wherever possible in the search for solutions to their technical problems, in order to possibly reduce delays and to avoid further delays. Indeed, this delay in delivery will make it easier for passengers to make use of the increased comfort and additional capacity. A delay in delivery will also make it easier for SNCB to decommission its oldest equipment such as the M140 and M4 wagons and the T21 and T27 locomotives. When the framework agreement was signed in December 2015, SNCB ordered 445 carriages. The delivery of these 445 carriages M7 accounts for more than 50 000 seats and will ensure that SNCB can provide sufficient seats until 2022. SNCB has not yet entered into a binding agreement for the remaining 917 vehicles. As long as SNCB does not place an additional order, there is no obligation to purchase. SNCB, however, is in the process of determining the need for the following years, looking at the most appropriate type of rolling stock. It is only after these strategic analyses that new projects and specifications can be prepared. The precise allocation of the M7 equipment is not yet 100% determined. Since the start of the project, however, it is clear that the M7 will be used as a priority for the most heavily loaded trains and lines, in particular for the services using the north-south link.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u28	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your detailed reply, which I will read out in the report. I would ask you to keep following up on this dossier, because it is important that these trains get there as soon as possible. It is regrettable that for an order that was placed in 2015, in 2019 we have to find that there are technical problems such as problems with brake tests and stability problems with the wheels. It should be possible to assume that if one places an order with a large firm and uses proven technology, such problems would not arise. I hope that this dossier will be followed up so that the traveller can have additional capacity and new, comfortable devices as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u29	Question No 28009 by Mrs Gwenaëlle Grovonius is transformed into a written question. Question No 28012 by Mr Michel Corthouts was withdrawn. Question No 28030 by Mr Gilles Vanden Burre, question No 28051 by Mrs Kattrin Jadin and question No 28068 by Mr Frédéric Daerden fall, their authors being absent. Question No 28059 by Mr Stefaan Van Hecke is not applicable: it was answered in writing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u30	Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you again about SNCB's intentions with regard to the bridges of Allain and Chercq, in Tournai, which were once intended for rail traffic and welcomed line 88A. In April 2018, SNCB filed with the delegated official two permits to demolish these works of art. However, these bridges have heritage and mobility interests. From a heritage point of view, there are several arguments for their conservation. In the report called "A railway heritage at risk: the bridges of line 88A in Allain and Chercq", we can read that "these works of art still tell, together with other witnesses of industrial architecture, the history of the economic development of these localities, and especially that of the activity of limestone quarries. On the technical level, the three rail bridges bear witness to two completely different periods and constructive methods, one of steel and the other of prestressed concrete. On the scale of the Belgian railway, the bridge over the Scheldt, built around 1959, is particularly remarkable because of the precocity of its engineering." In terms of mobility, these bridges respond to a concrete opportunity linked to sustainable development. Indeed, this section is included in the municipal development plan of the city of Tournai as a structural axis for the development of the RAVeL. In view of the climate challenges we face, the emphasis on sustainable modes of travel is in the right direction. The city of Tournai is ready to take over the management of these works by prior rehabilitation by the current owner, i.e. the SNCB. In view of its future destination, i.e. to accommodate pedestrians and cyclists, the precautionary measures are finally quite moderate, especially if care is taken to remove the ballast from the rails and to relieve the apron. This would be less costly than demolition, which represents costs associated with setting up a very specific logistics. Minister, what is the estimated cost to SNCB of demolishing these two bridges? Is not their restoration prior to their management by the city of Tournai a solution that would arrange both sides?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u31	Dear colleague, the SNCB informs me that it has brought an action in view of the refusal of the Walloon Region on 5 June 2018 to take over line 88A, Annex 3 of the Convention, and the refusal of the permit to demolish by the delegated official for all works of art. The transfer to the Appeals Board took place in two phases: on 9 January for the bridge over the Scheldt and on 14 January for the other three bridges. SNCB states that it should receive a response in the course of March. As regards the cost of demolition, it is estimated that 450,000 euros for the bridge over the Scheldt and 550 000 euros for new cables and the Ravel Road, plus an amount of 105 000 euros for the rehabilitation of the other three bridges.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u32	Minister, you have answered me in part. Do you realize the amount of money to spend, just to demolish bridges? We're a little in the realm of surrealism. Indeed, the only thing that is asked of you is to restore these bridges more or less in condition and to give them, through a convention, to the city of Tournai. This would, in any case, make it possible not to commit the irreparable. Indeed, if you blow up the bridge, there will no longer be any physical possibility to allow the RAVel to pass between the two shores. So I do not understand how hard it is to pretend that we do not understand, especially since the sums you have just quoted are enormous. If, rather than simply demolishing, we were to secure and establish a convention, that would make it easier for everyone to do so. Quite honestly, I was present on 9 January at the Appeals Board and I did not really feel, in the leadership of each other, a willingness to reach a calm decision that would make it easier for everyone.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u33	Mr.President, Minister, I come back to an event that took place on Saturday, December 15, 2018. I draw attention here to the fact that this is not a single event. The one we are interested in today is the last train that connects Brussels to Namur from 23:38, leaving the Central Station. On that day, the train was first announced with a delay of 5 minutes, then 14 minutes, then 22 minutes, before being definitively cancelled. The information given via the speakers and screens was limited to indicating that the train was cancelled. No excuse, no explanation, no guidance, or even an invitation to visit the website was given. The passengers were delivered to themselves to find a solution at this late hour. At a meeting of the Infrastructure Committee in January, we had the chance to hear a presentation, in particular on the delay of trains. The question of the abolition and cancellation of trains was not widely discussed at this meeting. While the press regularly refers to train delays, it also refers to total or partial train cancellations. It turns out that these cancellations exploded in 2018. For the first ten months of the year, there are 21,968 deletions, compared to 14,412 in 2017, an increase of 52.4% in one year. In addition, 48% of trains abolished in 2018 were due to third parties, for example, because of people travelling on the tracks or throwing their bikes on a catenary. That's what Vincent Bayer, the SNCB spokesperson, said. Only 33.7% of the deletions were attributable to SNCB, mainly due to technical problems with railway equipment. Finally, 16% of the causes of deletions are attributable to lnfrabel, the network manager. The SNCB spokesperson added another element to consider. Strikes took place, particularly in February. In that month, 3,389 cancellations were recorded. Minister, why, in the event of a train cancellation, is no information given via the speakers to clarify the rights of passengers, and therefore they can call a taxi and be reimbursed under certain conditions? Is there no way to invite, via speakers or screens, to consult a specific page of the SNCB website? Why is an explanation of the cause of the cancellation or delay not given? It seems to me that users know how to be understanding as long as they receive information. Not receiving information is a source of frustration. In the specific case, why did the station manager, or another staff member, not report to the wharf, as is sometimes the case, to redirect passengers? How are cancelled trains accounted for in delay statistics? Is SNCB potentially encouraged to cancel trains to improve punctuality statistics? How to explain the overall increase in cancellations? I'm talking about cancellations and not delays.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u34	Where there is a risk that passengers may miss a connection with the last train, SNCB anticipates at different levels, in order to best assist travellers. In theory, the train attendant who finds, when checking tickets on the last train, that these passengers might miss their connections, must inform the passenger dispatching. It ensures that a taxi is called by telephone so that travellers can continue their journey as quickly as possible. SNCB also provides additional waiting time for the last trains. Information is available via the travel planner. The SNCB thus increases the possibility of connecting with the last train, even in the event of delay. Station sub-chiefs are also attentive to significant delays and must do what is necessary to help commuters continue their journey. SNCB strives to offer a concrete alternative for travellers to reach their destination. SNCB informs me that it will undertake additional actions on two points: the rights of travellers will be added to its website and it will also establish a procedure for these travellers to be helped more concretely via the speakers to continue their journey. For any train deleted, SNCB applies the rule to disclose the cause. However, the evening of 15 December 2018 was very agitated due to poor weather conditions, disturbed traffic at Denderleeuw, interrupted train traffic at Enghien and impossible train departure for Brussels Airport. In such cases, SNCB must select which messages are broadcast via the speakers. This is why the reason for the train's deletion was not communicated in this particular case. SNCB informs me that it has examined the situation of 15 December which you mentioned in considering that your employee was in Brussels North at the time when train E2123 was abolished. You cite the Brussels-Central train station as the origin of this train instead of the Brussels-Midi train station. However, SNCB not only investigated the situation in Brussels North, but also the situation in Brussels Central, Brussels Schumann and Brussels Luxembourg. After investigation, his findings are as follows. In Brussels-Central, staff were well present and travellers were well taken care of. In addition, the dock staff explained to the travellers the procedure to be followed. The aim was to channel travellers to Brussels North. This line was conducted orally by the staff at the wharf as well as by the speakers. The message said: "Travellers to Namur must travel to Brussels North where they can continue their journey." After arriving in Brussels North, travellers were welcomed again by the sub-chief of the wharf, who gathered everyone and wrote six taxi vouchers for 19 travellers. As from 10 p.m., there are no longer staff in Brussels-Schumann and Brussels-Luxembourg, SNCB immediately went there to write taxi vouchers – one for four travellers – to help travellers to their final destination. As regards the accounting of cancelled trains, it should be noted that all trains are measured at the final destination station or at our border points. Trains passing through the Nord-Midi junction are therefore measured a second time. By dividing the number of measurements where the train was measured as per hour by the total of measurements performed, the rate of punctuality of the network is obtained. The calculation shall take account of partially deleted trains if they make a stop at one of the two measuring points, Brussels or the final destination. Trains completely deleted are not counted in the punctuality calculation. The number of trains deleted shall be the subject of separate statistics giving rise to follow-up. At the meeting of the Infrastructure Commission, it was explained that in 2018, 26,626 trains were abolished, which was higher than in 2017, where they were only 19,557. We are well below the 38,041 trains that were abolished in 2016. For about half of the trains deleted in 2018, the removal was caused by third parties. Finally, the only action that can be taken in incidents such as a rolling stock failure, an accident of people, etc. and, in order to improve punctuality, it is to limit or eliminate trains so as to avoid cascading delays.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u35	Minister, thank you for your explanations and I am pleased that a procedure is being studied to better inform and communicate. This will reduce people's frustrations. We can be understanding but to a certain limit.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u36	According to the press, asbestos was found in some SNCB trains. Indeed, two of the 20 vehicles examined in the Sprinter series would contain traces of asbestos in a closed technical space. Although no traces of asbestos have been found in passenger compartments and no free fibres have been detected, this seems to be a concern to SNCB staff. Faced with this problem, SNCB intends to recall several trains in order to analyse them more fully. Minister, how many trains are involved in the possible presence of asbestos in their technical space? What measures are being taken or envisaged not only in terms of equipment but also with regard to railway personnel? Do you have any information on the possible consequences of the recall of several trains on the service provided to passengers?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u37	Dear colleague, the SNCB informs me that the series to which the press has referred consists of 51 automotors. Meanwhile, the driving positions of all the Sprinters have been checked. SNCB indicates that in the driving stations of seven automotors asbestos dust was found in the space where the heating register is located. For each of these driving stations, an air measurement was performed and the results were analyzed using the NIOSH 7402-TEM technique. No asbestos dust was found. Air measurements in passenger compartments were also carried out and asbestos dust was not found. SNCB adds that an action plan will be implemented for the replacement of small asbestos slats and asbestos joints in the technical space. According to SNCB, the consequences of the controls on the presence of asbestos in the closed technical space for all Sprinter series have had only a small impact on train service.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u38	Mr President, I thank the Minister for his reassuring response.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u39	Joined Questions Nos 28128 and 28231 by Mrs Véronique Waterschoot and 28203 by Mr Olivier Maingain, as well as Question No 28131 by Mr Marcel Cheron, are deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u40	Minister, the press has recently echoed problems with the display of railway destinations in SNCB's fixed or mobile infrastructure. In concrete terms, for stops such as Liège-Jonfosse or Liège-Palais, which have become Liège-Carré and Liège-Saint-Lambert respectively, the updating of data would not have yet been fully achieved in computer systems. It would also not have been made for billboards, causing confusion and problems of correspondence with rail users. Minister, according to the information at your disposal, what exactly is the extent of the problem? What are the causes? Therefore, what steps have been taken to rectify the situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u41	Dear colleague, SNCB informs me that when a station changes its name, adaptations must be made in many different types of systems. The name changes in Liège-Carré and Liège-Saint-Lambert had already been made on the day of launch on the website, on the SNCB app, the screens of the sound systems and the yellow posters in the stations as well as on board the Desiros. For the most recent trains such as Desiro, the software is centrally managed. For the 774 older cars such as AM96, I11 and M6, a SNCB employee must install the new software manually in each car. Ideally, this operation takes place at night at one time. Many employees are then required to carry out the operation, which involves a high cost. In the case of the name changes in question, SNCB adapts the software gradually and during the day, in order to reduce costs. When the name is next changed, SNCB will re-apply to a night shift as far as possible the day before the new name is introduced.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u42	Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u43	Debates of the European Parliament 28222 by Mr Geerts was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u44	Mr Minister, on 28 November 2018, in response to one of my questions, you expressed your intention to organise a meeting in order to present the situation, the evolution of the certification of rolling stock, the impact on schedules, the work, and the planning of improvements on the Brussels-Luxembourg line, which has been a problem for some months. In your opinion, we had to be transparent and avoid being taken hostage by commuters without information. I am reminded that delays and deletions are still relevant. It is more than important that this meeting be held as quickly as possible and that all relevant actors be invited to the province of Luxembourg, including the public authorities and the municipalities. Minister, would I have liked to know if you had announced your intention to instruct SNCB and Infrabel to agree to make this meeting a reality? What about it? If this meeting is planned, can you inform me about the details of the meeting and the invited actors? On the other hand, if this meeting is no longer on the agenda, can you explain why?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u45	Dear colleague, I said in the Committee on Infrastructure at the end of last year that I wanted to organise an information meeting in the province of Luxembourg in the presence of SNCB and Infrabel, in order to discuss the organisation of work on axis 3, which is particularly detrimental to rail supply, taking into account, in particular, the decisions taken by the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg in terms of TCS and, therefore, instructing the companies to agree in order to make this meeting a reality. For your information, this meeting was to be held at the end of January, but it was cancelled at the request of both companies. It will normally be organised in early March, according to the agenda that has been communicated to me. If it were tomorrow it would be the same for me, but the SNCB officials have ministerial agendas, so they have difficult to agree! The meeting will be attended by federal, regional, provincial and municipal representatives of the province of Luxembourg, as well as representatives of travel associations. I insisted – because I felt what they wanted me to do – that this meeting should take place. I know that Arlon is far from Brussels, but it is as easy to organise a meeting in Arlon as it is in Brussels.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u46	Minister, I am very pleased to hear from you on this subject. I just regret that we are going from December to January and from January to March: it is making fun of part of Belgium. Indeed, the grunt is intensifying and I think it is more than urgent to communicate. Perhaps both societies are afraid to come to this point. In any event, I had heard that the meeting was to be held in January, and that one of the two companies had to cancel, not for an agenda reason but because there were not enough premises in the province of Luxembourg to accommodate all the protagonists. I hope that this excuse will not be the same in March, but I am glad to see that you are resisting.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u47	So we meet in Arlon at the beginning of March?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u48	I hope it's the first.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u49	Question No 28281 by Mr Jean-Jacques Flahaux is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u50	Mr Minister, in a resolution of 17 March 2016, the Chamber of Representatives asked the Court of Auditors to investigate the causes of the failure of the GEN fund and the significant delays in the GEN work. The Court of Auditors conducted that investigation and reported its findings in a very interesting report on 25 January 2017. Unfortunately, those findings weren't very rosy. In the meantime, we are two years ahead and in other words, it is more than useful to evaluate the consequences of the Court of Auditors' findings since then. One of the findings of the Court of Auditors is the lack of an up-to-date mobility needs analysis. That study was carried out with delay and has not been updated since. However, Article 13 of the 2003 GEN Agreement provided for a five-yearly update of that need analysis. In addition, the Court of Auditors found that for a larger number of stations there is a reduced train frequency during peak hours rather than an increased train frequency. However, most of the works have already been carried out and a large part of the operating objectives set out in the agreement of 4 April 2003 with, for example, four trains per hour can already be achieved. I have the following questions, Minister. What impact has SNCB already had on the Court of Auditors' report on the GEN works? What impact has Infrabel already had on the Court of Auditors' report on the GEN works? When will there be an update of the mobility needs analysis, as provided for in Article 13 of the 2003 Agreement? What has already been achieved from the objectives of the original GEN cooperation agreement, please broken down by GEN line? What is the reason why certain objectives have not yet been achieved?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u51	The Court of Auditors' report has already been thoroughly analysed and discussed. So I will not go into its conclusions in detail here. However, I have taken out the following elements. The criticism of the Court of Auditors mainly concerned the political approach of the file. Firstly, excessive requests in the context of licences. Secondly, the annual 60-40 key. Thirdly, the lack of follow-up by the body provided for in the cooperation agreement. Fourthly, there are several reasons for exceeding the time limit for obtaining licences for appeal and lack of reporting. At federal level, measures were taken to address this situation, including the relaxation of the distribution key which will now be applied on a multiannual basis. The most important measure for managing an investment project such as the GEN is perhaps the fact that I started the GEN steering group and organised numerous CCM meetings. This led to the cooperation agreement of 5 October 2018 agreed by the Federal Parliament last week. Today, I would like to ask all representatives of the people once again to urge their colleagues in the regions to approve shortly the decrees approving this cooperation agreement, which I understand will also be done by the regions. The CCM has contributed to the implementation of the multi-annual strategic investment plan and has validated its content, including the GEN works. Moreover, the GEN Steering Group, chaired by Jean-Pierre Hansen, bringing together the various parties, was fully reactivated in accordance with the governance provided for in the 2003 Agreement. Since August 2017, this steering committee has been bringing together SNCB, De Lijn, TEC, STIB and the federal and regional Cabinets and Administrations on a monthly basis to take stock of progress and discuss possible blocking elements such as building permits, etc. As far as planning is concerned, companies have relied on their years of experience with GEN works to prepare planning in the context of financing the valuable billions. We therefore have confidence in the plans drawn up in accordance with realistic deadlines for obtaining the permits in the regions. In this context, the cooperation agreement provides that the regions will do everything in their power to ensure that applications for authorisation are processed quickly. It is also important that, in the context of the examination of these licence applications, the regions do not make the same mistakes as in the past with regard to the imposition of urban charges. There can be no question of the funds made available to companies being used to plant geraniums. Infrabel now has a multi-annual strategic investment plan within which the GEN project was fully completed. As regards reporting, a quarterly report was developed for the management bodies of the company, the board of directors in which the State and the Regions are represented, but also for the federal cabinet, based on financial and operational planning, established within the multi-annual strategic investment plan. This report contains a financial follow-up of the projects, but also an operational follow-up of the yards. It also aims to identify and communicate as soon as possible all risks and problems that can stop or slow down the progress of work. As regards the rail supply, SNCB continued its S-offer, which forms the rail link of the GEN and was launched in 2015 while the Court of Auditors prepared its report, extended in 2016 and later on following the new transport planning in December 2017 and its review in December 2018. SNCB has also made efforts to improve the visibility of the stations and stops in Brussels by placing identification totems. In addition, there was also a campaign to promote the S-offer. Indeed, Article 13 of the GEN Agreement provides for an up-to-date examination of relocation needs, which is analysed on the basis of objective criteria, at least every five years. This initiative is launched at the initiative of the GEN Steering Group and is funded by all parties according to a key to be determined. However, the improvements in supply in 2016, 2017 and 2018 have significantly bridged the gap between the objectives pursued and the current situation. As regards the study of Article 13, Article 3 of the Cooperation Agreement states that: "The federal government is committed to taking the necessary measures, in due course, together with SNCB and within the framework of the ECCM, so that the offer can be adjusted at every major stage until placing in service, and in such a way that the new infrastructure is used as effectively as possible." This requires that, in particular, a new study be carried out for the GEN in accordance with Article 13 in due course. A significant improvement in the offer with every 15 minutes serviced stops is envisaged by 2025. In addition, when the Steering Committee was redesigned in August 2017, the priority immediately focused on re-launching works, on the one hand, and interoperability, in particular the integrated tariff offer, on the other. In the context of the discussions on the integrated tariff offer, it was asked which area would be relevant to such integration. The GEN Steering Group expressed its wish at the ECCM to conduct an investigation into areas which would have become more relevant in the meantime.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u52	Mr President, Minister, it is a very unfortunate dossier. For us or for me, no geraniums should be planted, but the objective of four trains per hour must be achieved. Now I hear that this objective would not be achieved until 2025, for an agreement made in 2003. I really don't understand that. I refer to my own line, line 60 Dendermonde-Brussels, which should not be on four tracks. She was allowed to stay on two tracks. There used to be... I can talk about it, because as a high school student I also took the train... more trains per hour on that line than there are now. Now there are only two trains per hour. Moreover, it is now clear that we will have to wait until 2025 before we get those four trains per hour. On our line, that certainly has nothing to do with the infrastructure that is still needed. I doubt whether this is the case on all lines, namely that it is due to infrastructure delays that the GEN target cannot be rolled out faster than in 2025. Those geraniums are nothing to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u53	Mr Van Hecke asks for question No. Question No 28140 and Question No 28140 28236 to be converted into a written question. We have no news from Mrs Detiège. Her question No. 28349 is therefore deleted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u54	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, 'on the basis of persons on the tracks between Brussels-North and Brussels-South, rail traffic has been disrupted'. That message resounded on Tuesday evening 15 January in the Brussels stations, and that was certainly not the first time. Railroads in the North-South link inevitably lead to enormous delays on the entire rail network. In recent years, the number of incidents seems to have increased, although this may also have to do with clearer communication or greater attention to the problem. In recent years, however, there has been considerable investment in better shielding of rail infrastructure, including with trip mats and security cameras. Minister, how many incidents involving railrunners between Brussels-North and Brussels-South were registered in 2018? How much was the total delay due to these incidents? In how many cases could the trackers be caught or identified afterwards? Could costs be recovered from those involved? How do you evaluate the measures taken to prevent trackers in the North-South link? I am thinking, among other things, of cameras, trip mats and locks. Is additional measures foreseen in the near future? How do you evaluate the existing procedures used for reporting runners? Is there any provision for an adjustment? One could, for example, allow the next train to continue at reduced speed, as a visual check, after which, if necessary, rail traffic can be resumed immediately. If I am not mistaken, it used to be customary, but that arrangement was changed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u55	Dear colleague, in 2018, 43 incidents involving railrunners were recorded between Brussels-North and Brussels-South. The total delay resulting from these incidents was 19 324 minutes. When track runners are identified, SNCB tries to recover its costs for the delays. In this way, SNCB's legal service started 175 files in 2018, billing approximately 30 000 euros of expenses to trackers. The North-South link is currently implementing several measures: the installation of new cameras in the tunnel, when entering and at the end of the platforms in Brussels-South, Brussels-Central, Brussels-Congres and Brussels-North, the change in lighting when a case of rail runs occurs, the improvement of the sound system and the possibility of transmitting messages when track runs are detected. On all platform edges of the North-South link stations signs were also placed which prohibit the crossing of tracks to remind train users that this is formally prohibited. If a train driver sees an intruder in the danger zone, he must first horn, reduce the speed of the train and, if necessary, stop to avoid a collision. He must also send a mobile-air alarm to his fellow drivers nearby, to the Traffic Control Dispatching and the managing signalling station. The Security Operation Center, in consultation with Traffic Control, determines the need to recover police, emergency services and or Securail. After receiving an intruder's report, Infrabel imposes an order for careful driving over a distance of 1,500 meters from where the intruder was last observed. There are no changes to these rules for the time being. However, consideration is being given to better use of SOC camera images when releasing the tracks so that the "careful driving" measure could be lifted more quickly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u56	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I think it would make a big difference if the trains were to be able to drive carefully in the case of runners rather than having to stop completely.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u57	Questions Nos 28361, 28362 and 28541 by Mrs Schlitz were deleted, given her absence. Question No 28374 by Mr Flahaux is transformed into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u58	Mr President, Minister, I am regularly called upon not only by the inhabitants of Koekelberg, but also by the neighbouring communes. I am thinking in particular of the commune of Jette. This concerns the north-west of Brussels, in general, so also Berchem-Sainte-Agathe, Molenbeek and Ganshoren. These residents complain about an increase in the overflight of their neighbourhood. An increased use of the 07L airstrip at Brussels-National Airport is often denounced as responsible for these noise nuisances and the deterioration of their living environment. Needless to say, Koekelberg, for example, is one of the most densely populated municipalities in the country. As far as public health is concerned, it is therefore unacceptable that it should be overflew more than other less populated areas around the airport. Minister, do you confirm the increase in landings via runway 07L at the airport? What are the reasons for the increased use of this runway? What measures are you planning to take to reduce the overflight of the most densely populated areas of the capital?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u59	It would be good for the chairman of the committee and Mr Laaouej to agree. That would already be a big step in this question. Mr.Laaouej, Runway 07L was used for 0.9% of landings in 2013, 1.2% in 2014, 2.3% in 2015, 3.7% in 2016, 2.1% in 2017 and 4.6% in 2018. The choice of take-off and landing runways is primarily aimed at ensuring the highest level of safety in air navigation. The year-to-year variations in the rate of use of Runway 07L are mainly due to the variation in weather conditions - for example, two cold waves, in 2018, as exceptional circumstances - and the variation in the availability of other runways based on maintenance work, particularly at the end of 2018. The rules for the use of runways have not been changed during this legislature and have been the same since 2013. With regard to the other questions, Mr Laaouej, I refer you to the answers given to the questions raised today by Mrs Lalieux, Mrs Becq and Mr Jiroflée and Mr M. Van Rompuy. When you read the answers to these questions, you will get details of the work done, the reasons why 07L was used. This includes work on the BUB tag. 07L was therefore used with PBN for a strictly time-limited period. By reading my answers, you will have an overview of the use of 07L. You should also know that, in the vortex at the end of March 2018, the mediator who has been there for sixteen years has indicated that he had never known such an east wind for twelve days in a row. There is an uninterrupted wind of 12 to 20 knots. This explains the use of the 07L that allows aircraft to land with a strong east-facing wind.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u60	Minister, I take note of the information you have given me. You refer me to the answers given to other questions. I also take note of that. Mr Minister, I would like to deliver the following message: the north-west of Brussels is more than 200 000 inhabitants. So this is a densely populated area, so I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the figures you give me show an increase in the use of the track, except for a year when there is a slight decline. In any case, in 2018, there was a particularly important recovery. You have mentioned a number of factors related to climatic conditions, maintenance problems, but also to other physical considerations. Nevertheless, there is a clear increase. I wish you would know that there is a growing ras-le-bol of a large number of inhabitants. It's not a big deal. This represents a fifth of the Brussels-Capital Region in terms of population. All of this indicates that your services should be taken into account in making operational choices. I will not fail to return to you when the time comes. Thank you, and thank you, colleagues and Mr President.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make it clear that when I say maintenance, it is for safety reasons. As you know, an impact study is under way. I can assure you that it is truly rigorous and independent. I'll invite you both to discover it. A part is already known and has been disseminated. It will allow everyone to analyse the findings, both as regards the legal framework, the operations that are carried out, the role of policy, the technical role and the role of operators. In any case, she will have the merit of putting all this black on white. This is a question that I have asked in today's five interventions on the Envisa study. It will allow a neutral, objective and independent light to be projected on this issue, which needs this, so that we can finally find solutions if we want to move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u62	Minister, you will agree that it is also up to us, as representatives, to draw your attention to the real feeling and experience of a large part of the population that is flown over by aircraft. This population obviously expects the authority of the information but also that it takes into account all the parameters that allow for proper management of the file.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u63	We are also concerned in Zaventem. The aircraft coming from the direction of Koekelberg are the most noisy aircraft for the inhabitants of Zaventem-centre. We are finally all bound by the same problem. However, the planes must land somewhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u64	Minister, it is decided that the southern part of Belgium is the cursed region. After line 162, line 165, line 167! It comes to my mind that, beyond what is currently happening, work planned between SNCB and CFLs would soon be planned on lines 165, 167 and 170 according to the following agenda: On the SNCB coast, there would be parallel work on connection to the Athus terminal, imposing the cut-off of line 165 from 1 November 2019 to 1 March 2020, obviously making the Virton station inaccessible and line 167, which would be cut from 2 March 2020 to 30 August 2020, then making the Athus station inaccessible. Substitution buses would be set up. In parallel, on the CFL side, the 70 Rodange-Virton line would be completely closed from 21 August 2019 to 14 December 2019. If all this work were combined, there would be a problematic situation in the south of the province of Luxembourg, since between Virton and Luxembourg there would then be 128 days - for this year - and 371 days - between mid-August this year and August 2020 - of rail traffic interrupted. This work is certainly necessary, but this one-year interruption of the rail link between Virton and Luxembourg gives rise to many fears for the future of the line. Indeed, it is difficult to imagine how to recover commuters who have had to change their mobility habits for almost a year. This is, of course, another blow for cross-border commuters who frequent this line on a daily basis, as well as for the municipalities concerned. There are definitely too many problems in the south of Belgium! Minister, can you confirm to me that this work will take place according to the agenda I have just mentioned? What are your fears about the eventual removal of lines 165 and 167? Could you consider better coordinating this work in order to minimize its impact on commuters? Of course, I agree, it is not easy to do so when construction sites are located at the border of two countries. In advance, thank you for your clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u65	Mrs Goffinet, you refer to the figures provided by the ASBL "Friends of the Rail". This dossier, which I know well, is linked in particular to the improvement project of the Athus container terminal, which offers very promising prospects and which all the forces in the province of Luxembourg have asked me to do. I hear you'd like to question them. Indeed, if we suspend the work, the disadvantages disappear. If you don't, you cut. With regard to line 165, Infrabel informs me that, since last summer, a construction site is under way at Virton station and is due to end in April 2019. This work consists of a renewal of referrals as well as improvements to the wharfs. Further work is expected in mid-2020 on modernisation, signalling and power supply. However, this should not lead to a total cut-off of traffic and, in any case, not for the duration you mention. Rather, they should be shutdowns on Sundays, a day when no passenger train is travelling. As far as line 167 is concerned, Infrabel informs me that two projects will be planned. On the one hand, a total cut in traffic of 4 weeks between 13 May and 10 June is planned between Arlon and Athus to allow a lowering of track of about 25 cm under a bridge located at Hondelange. It is in fact a matter of renewing the power supply to 25,000 volts, which requires a larger model of electrical infrastructure. Infrabel's teams will work in double pose, including on weekends, in order to minimize inconvenience to users of this line; of which cost + 100%. On the other hand, the traffic will be completely interrupted over a longer period - probably a few months - in 2020 between Athus and Redange, following the development of a new link between Athus and France. The timing of this work is still under consideration. The fact that Infrabel makes significant investments on these lines ensures safety. Without work, this could no longer be ensured and traffic should then be stopped. Optimization of the work is part of Infrabel's strategy, which systematically makes every effort to limit the nuisances incurred by rail users, even if this complicates its task and involves significant additional costs. We are talking about an additional cost of about 30 to 50% compared to day work. Total traffic cuts are therefore reduced to the strict minimum by carrying out work during the weekend and at night. According to Infrabel, SNCB is also informed of these cuts in order to allow it to program alternatives when possible. More fundamentally, in relation to the province of Luxembourg, I would like to point out that I had to fight for these changes to a new line between Athus and France. It would have been easier for me not to get involved in this case. But, long before the climate demonstrations, I was convinced that this new relationship is indispensable in terms of rail freight for Belgium as a whole. That is why I have joined all my energies with IDELUX in order to carry out this project. I am convinced that this will have an advantage for the province of Luxembourg, although it will have consequences during the work on the lines operated. Your question symbolizes the paradox facing us collectively, namely, to take measures in favour of rail transport (which represents concrete and immediate action in favour of the climate), but without any aspect of our daily life being disturbed. This is a ten-unknown equation that does not require any solution. Unfortunately, this equation is impossible. We must make choices and, as I have already said, my choice is that of the long term, that of making today the decisions that will strengthen the rail of tomorrow and that, I hope, will help to shift more passengers and goods from road to rail. However, these choices must be explained to the citizen so that he can consider today's disadvantages from a positive perspective. As regards the future of lines 165 and 167, I refer you to Article 3 which I have included in the cooperation agreements, which ensure that the entire Belgian railway network remains at least equivalent to what it is today until the completion of the work set out in the strategic plan, in other words, until at least 2031. I would point out that, following the implementation of the strategic plan, the Belgian rail network will, for the first time since 1980, be expanded by 100 kilometres of additional tracks. Indeed, this strategic plan provides for the construction of new lines and routes, which represents a growth that we have not seen since 1980, since a number of lines have only been dismantled. I thank you for allowing me to provide this explanation for the entire Belgian territory through one example, namely that of the southern part of the province of Luxembourg.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u66	Minister, thank you for these explanations. It seems to me that we misunderstood each other because I did not say that I was against the works. They're more than necessary. I was talking about optimisation and the importance, beyond the paradox that you evoke, of communicating things well and their interest. It seems to me that everything comes from a communication problem. Of course, you mention the Friends of the Rail, but this question follows a meeting that I had with a collective of commuters of these lines that are really worried because they are afraid, in the long run, to lose the line 165-167 in favour of freight lines and that the passenger aspect would be forgotten. I note that the cuts will not always be total but partial and that work arrangements will be made with the aim of causing the least possible nuisance to users. I share your choices to develop the train even more. I had not forgotten Article 3 of the Cooperation Agreement, rest assured. I think all parties have read it well at our last plenary meeting.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u67	Mr President, Minister, in 1993, line 163 between Libramont and Gouvy and Saint-Vith via Bastogne closed. As a result, it is currently out of service. Since 2017, a "pre-RAVeL", which can be driven on foot and by bike, has been built between Libramont and Wideumont, on part of the section. According to the press, there would be a possible reopening of this line 163. Indeed, your Walloon counterpart, Minister Carlo Di Antonio, has included in the railway network the restoration of the Libramont-Bastogne cross-border link, which would be extended to Wiltz and Luxembourg. However, it appears that the RAVeL would be fully compatible with a railway line. I see that not all local municipalities share the same opinion as the Friends of Rail. Minister, what is your current position on line 163? Is this on the agenda at the federal level?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u68	Mr President, Mrs Goffinet, with regard to the line 163 Libramont-Bastogne, SNCB terminated the operation of the trains on the line in May 1993. I would point out that a bus service with the cost of serving SNCB has been set up to compensate for this end of operation. In accordance with article 90 of the management contract between the State and Infrabel, the authorization for the dismantling of line 163 between Libramont and Bastogne-Sud was granted on 27 February 2009 by the two tutelary ministers of the time. However, the base of this line was maintained with a view to a possible reopening if the traffic so required and if a decision to that effect had to be taken. However, it is important to be aware that this would require very important and costly work, as the infrastructure that has been unused for more than 25 years has obviously been very dilapidated since 1993. The reopening of the line was not the subject of the 18 priority projects of the Walloon Region that were tabled four or five years ago and introduced into the investment unit. As a result, this project was also not included in the bilateral cooperation agreement on strategic rail investments between the Federal State and the Walloon Region. On the other hand, I have noted that at the local level there is also no unanimity, since the municipal council of Libramont confirmed its opposition to the project during the presentation of the Territorial Development Scheme in January 2019. Finally, I would like to add that in the past, the trains that made the Bastogne-Libramont journey stopped only at one intermediate station. Today, the alternative bus service stops at more than sixteen locations and the SCNB has been funding this since the closure of the line in 1993.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u69	Minister, you confirm the information in my possession. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u70	Mr Minister, following the stop at Libramont of the last two IC trains from Brussels, it would appear that SNCB would have abandoned the introduction of a second alternative bus. However, it was during a parliamentary question asked last year that you referred precisely to the introduction of two substitute buses. Since Monday, 14 January, apparently only one replacement bus has been put into service, from the Libramont train station to Marbehan and Arlon, to replace the Brussels-Namur-Luxembourg train of 8:33 p.m., which no longer runs beyond Libramont. No solution is therefore available to passengers on the train leaving Brussels at 9:33 p.m. who wish to continue their journey beyond Libramont. It also comes to my mind that the only bus available to passengers at 10:45 p.m. could also be abolished if the number of passengers was not sufficient. It is regrettable that a service is not offered to travellers who, in the end, will no longer take the train to make their journey. This is the same problem as that mentioned in my previous question. The fear is that at the end of the work, the trains will no longer run during these time zones. Minister, what are the reasons for the removal of the second bus? Do you have attendance figures for the first bus? Apparently, we'd be talking about ten people. Could you guarantee that the trains will re-roll once the work is completed in accordance with the schedule proposed by SNCB?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u71	Dear colleague, it has been decided not to replace train IC 2121 at 21:33 in Brussels-Midi between Libramont and Arlon, due to the small number of customers on this bus between May and December 2018, compared to the high cost of this service. For IC 2120, it was replaced by a replacement bus between Arlon and Libramont. From January 14 to 21, this bus carried an average of one to nine passengers a day. The abolition of trains IC 2120 and 2121 between Libramont and Arlon is the result of Infrabel's desire to work under cover of extended night cuts for this section to speed up the work. This re-electrification work is currently planned until August 2020. Once this phase of work is completed, SNCB will reinstate the original IC offer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u72	I am pleased to hear that the initial IC offer will be reinstated. That's good news. As I understand it, the first bus has been removed since January 21 for lack of passengers?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u73	No, the second one!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u74	The second, not the first!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u75	Initially, since December, there were no substitute buses. I asked for a reassessment of the situation, which was done. A bus was planned to replace the first train, the 2120. On train 2121, there was only one person on board, if not zero. Therefore, the commissioning of a bus was superfluous.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u76	Minister, SNCB is one of the most important and largest employers in our country. The 2009 management contract of the holding company provides for a diversity plan and a target of 10% of immigrants in the annual staff intake from 2009. The management contract shall stipulate that the diversity plan shall also be reviewed and updated annually. How do you evaluate the implementation of the current management contract in the area of diversity policy, in relation to persons with a migration background? What was the share of immigrants in the influx in the years 2015 to 2018, number and percentage? In 2017, we adopted a wide-ranging resolution on diversity at SNCB. In view of this, what additional measures were taken in 2018 to boost the share? Were the evaluation reports drawn up for the years 2014 to 2018? Would you be able to deliver it to the committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u77	Dear colleague, HR Rail lets me know that the department has reorganised its diversity activities and that it did not make specific evaluation reports in 2016, 2017 and 2018 to promote diversity. HR Rail has undertaken several actions on diversity. In 2018, a working group on Diversity was set up at HR Rail, which focused on different themes, such as age, origin, culture and belief. In this context, SNCB participated in a survey conducted by the Ghent University on diversity and dealing with each other in the workplace. HR Rail awaits the results of the survey to consider, if necessary, additional actions in the future. In addition, SNCB recruited a responsible diversity and inclusion in October 2018, which will further develop the diversity and inclusion policy for SNCB. SNCB will also cooperate with Actiris, the Brussels Regional Employment Service, which will guide the development of diversity plans. I provide you with the numerical and percentage evolution of the inflow for the years 2015 to 2018, which I received from HR Rail. You will find that the non-Belgen share has doubled in that period. HR Rail draws attention to the fact that the figures cover all non-Belgian nationalities. HR Rail does not use the concept of ethnicity. At the end of 2018, however, a definition of persons with a migration background was drawn up, but the General Data Protection Regulation does not allow for the request or retention of such personal data.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u78	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I shall, of course, take a close look at the figures first. You say that there is a doubling of the percentage compared to 2014. If that is the case, it is of course a good and positive thing. SNCB needs a lot of staff because of redundancies and retirements. That is therefore an opportunity for SNCB. By the way, I would stress that public enterprises, and in particular SNCB, have a social role to play, in addition to their role as an example. I believe that SNCB should look up even more diversity and also give people with a migration background opportunities to do a job with SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u79	Mr Yüksel put his questions to me. 28641 and 28642 in written questions. Debates of the European Parliament 28664 by Mr Geerts and 28670 by Mr Yüksel are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u80	Minister, I have questioned you on several occasions about the renovations at the Ghent-Sint-Pieters station. The works have been quiet for quite some time now. Today, in De Gentenaar, as it were my home newspaper, we were able to read that a new construction plan has been drawn up, for which a new environmental analysis has to be carried out and for which a new tender would also take place. Mr Minister, could you explain that construction plan? To what extent is that different from the original construction plan from the years 2006-2010? What are the financial implications of this? Should a new tender be launched? What's the timing of this? Does this mean that a new building application must also be submitted? What does this mean for the planned timing to restart the works? Can you give a timing when work on the station can be started? Finally, an important question. The project has been slowing down for a long time now. I have already asked you several questions about this. I ask you to investigate what went wrong and what went wrong with this project.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u81	Mr Yüksel, in the context of the current public contract and negotiated procedure with prior publication at European level, it appeared that the tenders under the construction plan, which already included a number of optimisations with regard to the initial construction plan, still exceeded SNCB's available budget. SNCB therefore examined a number of additional modifications to the construction plan and consulted the city of Ghent and the steering and sounding board group. These adjustments relate mainly to an adapted large canopy, placing solar panels on that large canopy, improving access to the window access along the Clementinalaan, separating cyclists and pedestrians, smaller adjustments to improve walking lines, improving access to the bicycle shed, adapting an elevator so that it can be used by cyclists and optimizing the commercial area. In the original building plan from the building permit the excavated part on the ground floor was slightly larger. In the basement the technical spaces were already removed. On the ground floor there is less commercial space. The large canopy has been modified. The length of the small roofs was also shortened. The building application included a storage for 6 700 bicycles. Over the years this figure has been adjusted to 13 500. With the optimization room was created for 15 400 bikes. The wide platforms with escalators, fixed stairs and lifts are maintained. The works at the tram station are carried out as planned. SNCB provides that the above modifications to the construction plan will reduce construction costs. Of course, this will only be possible once SNCB has received the final tenders for the works. However, in view of the current public contract, SNCB is not currently able to disclose figures. As indicated above, there is currently a negotiated procedure with prior publication at the European level. In the context of the negotiations with the contractors, therefore, an appropriate specifications will be provided to them. Due to the different optimizations and savings compared to the initial construction plan, a new building request is needed anyway. The plans for this are in preparation. As indicated above, the modified construction plan requires consultation with the city of Ghent. The aim is currently to start the implementation of the works by spring 2020. SNCB considers that in this project it behaves as a good housekeeper and deals with the available budget with due care.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u82	Minister, I have a number of comments to make. I find it incomprehensible that this project is now in a new situation. You have confirmed that a lot of things are changing and that a new building request needs to be submitted. The allocation has yet to be made. When I look at all this, the timing of spring 2020 is unrealistic. I repeat that this is not an advertisement for the train or for SNCB. I also speak on behalf of the engineers and commuters, who are more than tired of delays. I would ask you once again, Minister, to find out what is wrong with this project. This is yet another delay and yet another problem situation. I'd like to ask you to have this examined. You know that Eurostation started this project. Meanwhile, Eurostation has been shut down and SNCB has taken over this project itself. Are you prepared to have this thoroughly investigated and to take appropriate measures? Can you assure me that after drawing up a plan and applying for construction work can start in 2020? I am very concerned about this and I am asking questions about it. I would like an answer to this now, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u83	I don't have anything to investigate this kind of thing. I was simply asked to apply things properly. Every parliamentarian has the right to request an inquiry, even from the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u84	Minister, you say that you have no elements, but the work has been quiet for a year now, and that is not a reproach to you, and you say that we could restart in 2020. That means that construction site would be shut down for two years. This isn't normal. You can't think this is normal. That is why I ask that your services ask SNCB for an investigation into why this is taking so long. It is two years in which nothing happens at a station where 57 000 people take the train daily. I take the train to Brussels almost every day. There is no justification for this, and you must not just push it aside. I ask you to have this examined by SNCB. This is not a question of malice, but it does not deserve all those travelers, people who put their trust in SNCB.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u85	I pay attention to the fact that the great works have become of such legal and administrative complexity that the engineer that I am draws the alarm bell! In our country, it has become extremely difficult to carry out much more extensive work as the legal, administrative and European issues weigh on those who have to carry out this work. It's become unbearable! See what is happening to the construction of the Haren prison or the Namur courthouse: we have been waiting for the decisions of the ICN for a year. Even sometimes during construction sites, we are obliged to apply safety rules that have been adapted. I draw attention: as soon as there is a large-scale project, there are difficulties! I refer you to the Court of Auditors' report on the ER. Irrespective of the deadlines, why have there been overruns, including appropriations? Because during the execution of the work, we decided to put the ETCS on. It's normal, but we came with this extra element to a construction site that was already complicated. As these are important amounts, we must repeat a European call. For the Ghent railway station, the construction site is very complex, as the construction sites of the Antwerp, Liège and Mons railway stations could have been. For these projects, I think it will be necessary to have an external steering committee, a little like we did for the ER. This committee should be composed of all parties, but also with externals who will be somewhat the watchdogs of the proper execution of things: respect for deadlines, respect for the amounts, respect for the techniques to be implemented. This case at Ghent station probably suffers from this kind of difficulty.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u86	Minister, this is complex work, and I agree with you on this, but this cannot explain why nothing is going to happen there for two years. This is unacceptable. I will continue to question you over and over again for the commuters who take the train there every day. I would ask you once again to ensure that these works are restarted as soon as possible and can be brought to a successful conclusion.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u87	Mr President, Minister, I will tell you nothing new when I say that in June 2017, you were obliged by the Court of First Instance to conduct a study on the national airport. You ordered the French consultancy company Envisa to produce a report to objectify the problem of noise pollution around Brussels Airport. A number of particularly critical conclusions emerged from the first phase of that study. There are, among other things, too many arbitrary adjustments to escape routes, flight routes that are adapted more frequently than usual, adjustments on the basis of "dubious criteria," adjustments without an analysis of the wider impact and a number of complaints that are disproportionately high in relation to neighbouring countries. The investigators are surprised that both the court and the minister can just change routes. In other countries this is done in a much stricter way and much more accompanied by the air traffic controllers themselves. In addition, the researchers point out that powers are fragmented and that national policies are not applied across one of the most important strategic sectors of the economy in Belgium. So much for a number of elements from the first phase of that study. Apparently there will be a second and even a third part. I'd like to know what you're concluding from this study. In what way does this go on? I know that at least part of that study will be carried out, but I assume that a Minister for Infrastructure is not waiting for that second part to draw at least some preliminary conclusions. I therefore hope that you will be able to help us in this respect.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u88	Mr President, I will not repeat Mrs Jiroflé's remarks and I will come to my questions immediately. Minister, when will this study be available? Some information on the Envisa study was provided but not its entirety. What conclusions do you draw? What will be the next steps?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u89	[[...]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u90	Woluwe-Saint-Pierre, intensely flying.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u91	Like my commune!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u92	But not by the same planes! If you could keep a few of them!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u93	You said everything, Mr. Dallemagne! The problem is solved.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u94	I think that one day we should put in a single room all the parliamentarians concerned to ask them to come out of the room once they have found the solution. More seriously, Minister, following the judgment of the Court of First Instance in July 2017, you were forced to commission an impact study on the overflight of Brussels. In June 2018, you finally awarded the contract for this study to the French office Envisa. The results of the first part of this study were made available to the press. They are particularly critical – I am weighing my words – of the management of this case by the Belgian authorities, all of them. In view of the importance of the Brussels overflight dossier, it seems to us important that this first part of the study be tabled in Parliament in order to be informed as parliamentarians as well as the media. If the media have had access to this information through your cabinet or through other channels, it would be good if Parliament had the same level of information. I would like you to be able to present your conclusions and comments, "conclusions" being perhaps a hasty word in relation to this first part. How long will the full study be available? We're talking about early June. This is a particular timing given the political situation. It would be interesting if Parliament could dispose of it as soon as possible. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to ask you about an old subject, which is still an application and as important, namely the clarification of the wind standards that you announced to us two years ago. You had communicated on this point because Belgocontrol seemed at the time to question the directives and instructions that the administration, DGTA, had transmitted on the basis of the interpretation of wind standards. Two years later, do you still intend to clarify these wind standards? Or did you give it up under the pressure of Belgocontrol? Can we still wait for him before the end of the legislature?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u95	Mr Minister, I agree with the questions raised by colleagues on the report of the French consultancy Envisa, which is a result of a judgment of the Court of First Instance of June 2017. The report has been published and I have read some of the excerpts. The report is devastating, and we already knew that for airport policy, which you, as the current minister, are not to blame, but which has been dragging on for 15 years. Each year it becomes more difficult to make decisions on the basis of clear criteria. Previous adjustments took place on the basis of unclear grounds and political manipulation was also carried out. At some point, politicians even became traffic controllers, because I heard them in Parliament talking about runways as if they were in the Belgocontrol control tower and were going to explain to themselves under what circumstances, for example, in which direction, which route should be chosen. Such operational decisions actually belong to Belgocontrol, which has been called Skeyes since recently. However, it remains unclear how things are evolving. A new verdict states that a real impact study of noise must be completed by 3 June. Envisa has identified a total lack of objectification, but not really formulated recommendations, but listed several possible criticisms. One of the criticisms is also about the fragmentation of competence between the federal level and the regions. Envisa also does not appreciate the finality of the noise standards with associated fines. The report therefore raises a number of questions, which of course need to be answered. We've been waiting a long time. I've been working on that file since 1999. In 2003 we discussed the night flights with Minister Durant at the time. After her came the ministers Anciaux and Landuyt. Under Secretary of State Schouppe there has been a certain period of rest. In the end, we have made very little progress in recent years because we cannot agree on the criteria. I do not believe that the impact study that should be completed by 3 June will bring clarity. Minister, it is very late in the legislature. Anything else coming? Last time, something came up in full campaign. During the election campaign Melchior Wathelet and Catherine Fonck outlined a number of routes, including above Zaventem, the famous Ikearoute. This was eventually destroyed after complaints from the Regions. Those two ministers and the CdH in Brussels did not get much credit for this. On the contrary, the electoral defeat is partly attributed to that. Other members of the government were also affected, for example Mrs Durant in 2003. Then there was also a whole discussion about flying over the Noordrand. For the people who live there, that is very far-reaching matters and elections are not the right time to look for new solutions. What else is in your agenda, Minister? Is there any progress to be expected?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u96	Mr President, with regard to the publication of this first report, I believe that transparency is important in the management of this dossier. Many of you are asking me to send a copy of the report to Parliament. In the context of this study and as announced, transparency goes far beyond Parliament. For this reason, the first chapter of Envisa's report was published on the website of the FPS Mobility. I think it's been accessible for two or three weeks. It is therefore available to everyone: local residents, MPs, operational actors in this dossier and so on. Let me remind you that this study has two phases. The first was to obtain an objective view of the current situation. The second will have to provide avenues for alternative solutions. As the process is alive, the first report has to evolve over the course of the meetings of the study office. I do not have to draw any conclusions at this stage. Small accuracy: The report was published and posted on the Mobility FPS website. In particular, the report reflects all interviews with associations of local residents, etc. If one of the actors who gives evidence of his point of view considers that the report does not accurately reproduce the point of view of the association, of one actor or the other, he can point out to Envisa (and not to me) that he considers that a correction is necessary. The first report is available. Corrections can be made before the final version of the report is published by Envisa. As I described in my general policy paper for 2019, I have wanted to develop a new approach in this dossier over the last two years to build a stable future. Although this takes time, I am aware of that, we have learned from the mistakes of the past that haste is not a sustainable solution, something that all actors are asking for. I have deduced that the only way to define and adopt a structural solution is on two pillars, namely, to objectiveize and consult, and not, as in the past, to move the problem without ever finding a lasting solution and without conducting any consultation or scientific study. The reading of the first conclusions strengthens me in this approach. The report notes historical errors by all actors, whether federal or regional. It calls into question court decisions and local residents by, inter alia, pointing to incessant changes for political purposes. The report highlights the following points: - too much involvement of the policy in operational choices, whereas in other countries it is authorities and airport operators who alone have the power to decide; - political decisions in Belgium which have led to increased awareness of the problem; - lack of coordination among all actors; - the absence of a coherent noise or spatial planning policy; - the use of complaints for political purposes; - lack of transparency, etc. I urge you to take note of this report, which is very detailed and comprehensive. Envisa must now provide us with a second report that provides solutions alternatives to reduce noise. These recommendations should form the basis for making choices. This report will be provided on time, certainly before the beginning of June.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u97	Beginning of June, therefore, after the elections.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u98	No. I did not specify whether it would be before or after the elections. The study is independent, a contract must be respected but never one of my collaborators or I will tell Envisa what to do, where to go and when to deposit it. Envisa spoke. We will have the report before the beginning of June, when Envisa completes his mission. All stakeholders in the dossier can consult Envisa. I want things to be independent. Not everyone has yet understood this, but the study will be independent. I haven't set a deadline. I just said the sooner it would be, the better. Envisa replied that it would be good before the beginning of June.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u99	Mrs Becq came in a little later, but has the floor in the replies.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u100	Mr Minister, you are putting quite a lot of emphasis on the critical remarks made in the report, which I have just briefly listed. I have the impression that you attribute this criticism mainly to the policy of the previous legislatures. That is partly right, but you and your fellow party members have been working on the dossier for five years and we have not seen any progress in that regard at all. Nothing really happened. I am specifically concerned with the unfair distribution of the nuisance, in the sense that the region around Haacht must carry with it the route Leuven Straight through very excessive burdens that were previously more spread out. I insist that this is unjust and that you should do something about it in no time. However, the study will provide a second part before the beginning of June, in which a number of solutions will be provided. You are now definitively saying what I suspected for some time, namely that you are lifting the file on this legislature and that you are transferring the hot potato to your successor. We will have no choice but to wait for the study to be completed at the beginning of June; I repeat that you and your partymates have been competent for five years now and that no progress has really been made.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u101	Mr. President, Mr. Dallemagne will reply for both of us.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u102	Mr President, Minister, I would like to join Mrs Jiroflée's remarks. It's a little easy, minister - and I weigh my words - to say that there is an independent study and that no one has understood, etc. However, you were five years old to act and you didn't. Your predecessor, Mrs. Galant, told us that she was going to act on this issue. You made the same remarks. You said, in particular, two years ago, that you were going to clarify the wind standards and you did not. So you sat on that file. It took justice to force you to conduct an impact study. And justice has just intervened again to make it clear that you are hiding behind this study in order not to act. She complained about the slowness. And if the conclusions of the impact study come in the aftermath of the elections, it's not because it's an independent study, it's because it's included in the specifications.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u103	No.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u104	If this is not in the specifications, it is an additional mistake. Indeed, one can very well indicate in a specification from when one wishes to have the results of such a study. The fact that these results are delivered in the aftermath of the elections is very good for your government. In any case, it suits you very well: good riddance! That is what we are contesting. Indeed, from the beginning, your policy was to say that you were not dealing with the issue. Earlier, the chairman of our committee recalled that this issue had been extremely unpleasant for many ministers. As far as you're concerned, the lesson you learned from this is that we had to touch this file as little as possible, that we were taking far too many risks in trying to find solutions. I regret that this is the only lesson you have learned while this file is rotting the lives of the residents. You say that it is not a question of delaying the nuisances that each one suffers. This is obviously a difficulty. In this area, a good compromise must be found, justice must be exercised in relation to all residents. There are keys. There are airports that make it possible to find a solution. The Infrastructure Committee went a few years ago, on the basis of my proposal, to see what was happening in Schiphol. For years, Schiphol Airport has been taking measures that we have not taken, whether they are quota counts, aircraft trajectories, consultation with residents, or opening or closing hours of the airport. As far as the latter are concerned, it is not a matter of delaying a flight from one region to another; it is indeed possible to ensure a form of tranquillity around the airport at night or for longer periods of time. That's the kind of action you haven't taken. Once again, the report's findings are interesting, but hiding behind this impact study for not doing anything bears witness to a responsibility which you have taken on politically, and which has a painful impact on the daily lives of all residents, in any case on the daily lives of Brusselsers, but also on the lives of the inhabitants of Flemish Brabant and Walloon Brabant. I think it was possible to act more effectively on this issue.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u105	Mr Minister, as far as I have heard the answer and on the basis of what I have read, it is clear, firstly, from the study that decisions have been taken on a regular basis. However, for a long time now we have been asking for a clear framework on the basis of objective data relating to safety in order to spread the burden across the regions. As the wind is more common from the west than from the east, it is obvious that some regions are more likely to suffer under these directions. In these circumstances, too, the applicable safety standards must be respected. I am thinking, for example, of flying straight ahead instead of taking many turns to avoid certain regions. The study reveals that a number of objective elements have to be taken into account, which were previously agreed in the government, but with which little or nothing has been done. Secondly, I must also point out that it seems that it is necessary to go to court in order to obtain some justice. The Noordrand has waited quite a long time. Other routes were removed from the Wathelet plan, but the Noordrand was not. There must be protests here to get justice, but then appeals are made. In the meantime, this legislature did not reduce the measures that were condemned for taking place à la carte without having to do so for security reasons and in consultation with the flight managers themselves. I hear you saying that there will be some study work. I suppose the announced States-General will still be called together. I didn't hear anything about that. I can only conclude that the additional studies will be available on 1 June, i.e. after the elections. Then perhaps the matter will be put before the next parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u106	Mr Minister, it is difficult to blame this government for what was said about the airport and the new flight plan. If one is in opposition, it is easy to say that nothing has happened and that it is the government's fault. For years I have been ships of the Environment in Zaventem and I know the file and the environment. I have been through all the major debates during the night flights with Mrs Durant. Then there were the attempts of Anciaux and Landuyt to come up with a real distribution plan. As the file has evolved, everyone knows which planes are above his head and which are not. If a change is made to the routes, both during the day and at night, people immediately get the reaction that they are burdened more heavily and regions that are less burdened do not want to recognise it. I think it's an insoluble problem.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u107	I would like you to read the report objectively. Mr Dallemagne, this legislature has been marked by decisions to withdraw the cdH plan from the overflight of Brussels. I call it the "cdH plan." We got the situation worse with the cdH plan. All judicial decisions, again the last, question decisions of the CDH. Mrs Jiroflée, what does the report say? The report says that the political world has taken over operational problems. That's an exception in the air world. In all other countries, the problem is solved by operators and administrative authorities. And that goes even further. It should be noted that the latest court decisions taken are contrary to Regulation 598/14, which states that "where a road change measure is likely to reach the operational capacity of the airport, the procedures of Regulation 598/14 shall be complied with". If you're dealing with air records, I'll have two things to tell you. On the one hand, if Regulation 598/14 is to be applied in the context of a new set of roads, the deadline for implementation is three to four years, not six months or one year as before, because the procedure must be respected. On the other hand, I would like to ask the following question to each of the groups represented here. When we have proposals for the organisation of the Brussels airport, as politicians, will we allow operators to do so on the basis of the recommendations and choices of the study office? Or will we do as in all other countries, where the administrative and technical operational authorities make the choice of roads by putting safety as a priority, as the policy no longer interferes with the air operation? Secondly, it is no longer up to a minister's office or a government to decide. Mr. Dallemagne cited the case of Schiphol. I asked the two Dutch ministers I met in my legislature if they were on the roads. Never! I went to Schiphol three times. I'm ready to apply what's happening to Schiphol. But let everyone do it, then! Let everyone accept it! Schiphol Airport has six runways. When they are in PRS three tracks, they do not change, during the day, for the other three tracks. They have an accompanying committee, with all the residents. They're having trouble, too. They may have an ease by the fact that the city of Amsterdam is the largest shareholder of the airport, which makes things a little easier. But when you look at a situation, you have to object to it. We looked at what was going on. Envisa worked at American airports. Today, there is 60% less noise at these airports. But do the political groups represented here agree to make recommendations from Envisa on the future Brussels overflight plan? I invite you to first read the first report, and then the next one. I'm very interested in reading it. I don't have a problem with that. I would have liked to implement things! But, systematically, we find ourselves confronted with appeals against a whole range of measures and judicial decisions that are not even in line with European rules. Take the case of 'Leuven rechtdoor'. The same judge took two different opposing judgements. We have to understand that too. There's the separation of powers. But I think that, as a minister, we can also have an external judgment. I don't dispute the judgment. I'm just saying there are two contradictory judgments. Which one should we apply, especially since they are the subject of appeals? That is the situation as it is today! A toolbox will soon be available and will include all the necessary tools. Who will make the final choice? Should this be left to the government or should technicians be told to make their choice based on the recommendations? These are the recommendations we will follow. I do not know if you have already read them, but I urge you to read points 4.3, 5.3, 6.3 and 7.3. These conclusions follow on from their observations and analyses.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u108	There is still the possibility of a brief reply, because it is a difficult discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u109	Mr President, I will be very brief. Minister, I have also read in the report that it is unusual for politicians to interfere and that in the past the problem has been dealt with in an unusual way. In fact, I began to acknowledge that in my question. However, using that passage in the report as an excuse to do nothing for five years is far beyond. If all your predecessors had so much to do with the file, you might have been able to do something to correct it. But nothing really happened.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u110	Yes! The Wathelet Plan and the cdH Plan were removed. It's not that bad!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u111	It is not by repeating it that this will change things. Keep your sleeve effects for the TV sets, Minister! What you just said is a fake news. What we have implemented is the Schouppe plan. We did it fairly, in a government in which you were. I find it quite unpleasant, politically, to see how short your memory is. This is your own responsibility in a proposal defended by the previous government as a whole. One of the mistakes, as Mr. President said, was that we were actually in an election campaign, and that all this was getting very complicated. For the rest, I think it's pretty weak as a defense. Indeed, in the end, through this answer, which is a fake news, you confirm that you have done nothing. You admit that's the only thing you've done. I remind you that it took you five minutes when the government took office. Since those first five minutes, you haven't done anything. When you promised, two years ago, to clarify the wind standards, you did not honour your word, because you never clarified these wind standards. These were clear for your administration. Under pressure from Belgocontrol, you said you would come forward with a clarification. You didn't. When it came to moving forward, you didn't do anything. It took justice to ask you to conduct an impact study. I'll call you back. This is not an initiative you would have taken personally. Indeed, this impact study is extremely interesting and I follow you when you say that there has been too much politicization in this case. The politicization has been going on for a very long time: since we opened Pandora's box, we've rotted this whole case. If we had let what existed before go on, we would not be in such a situation today. This politicization is about fifteen years old. For the future, it would be good if we had objective criteria that could finally prevail over nuisances and the use of this airport. That's all we're asking for. You could have discovered it five minutes after your government took office, and not today.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u112	Mr Dallemagne, there are contradictions within Brussels, between Brussels and the outskirts around Brussels and within the Flemish outskirts around Brussels. Mrs Becq comes from the north edge, I come from the east edge, Mrs Jiroflée comes from Leuven. If we put the Flemish municipalities together to see which routes should or should not be used, then we have as much quarrel as in the Brussels Region, where Sint-Pieters-Woluwe, Sint-Lambrechts-Woluwe and Oudergem have different interests than Koekelberg, Molenbeek, or the channel route. This dossier has grown over the years in such a way that it has become very difficult. Also within the political groups, Mrs Becq and I are very good friends, but when it comes to air routes, she defends her inhabitants and I defend mine. That's the way it is. This case has been so rotten for years, with activist judges. I have been in different courts a few times to defend the interests of my commune. One can determine the domicile of these judges: do they live in Woluwe-Saint-Pierre, in Meise? They are activist judges, as in the immigration file, according to Mr. Franken. It's so complicated. I'm not suing Minister Bellot. He has to deal with a very complex case. Perhaps the next government will introduce a new minister or be composed differently, but it will be a very difficult issue. The positive point of the Envisa study is that it recognizes a number of errors that have been made. With the impact study that the minister promised in early June, perhaps we can find a more objective basis. Nevertheless, each discussion on objective grounds is also a discussion. When it comes to population density, it is to the advantage of Brussels which has a density higher than the territory of Mrs Jiroflée, between Brussels and Leuven. It's extremely complicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u113	... This is an objective and subjective measure of noise intensity. It appears that each of the airport's residents knows how loud the noise is on their neighbourhood or home. The mention of airport-related nuisance is also mandatory when selling real estate. I am sometimes surprised to see that this kind of measure does not exist in us. We have sonometers and all kinds of other devices, but no measurement is planned for such a situation. As far as the story is concerned, in relation to Mr Wathelet, I remember very well saying to him at the beginning of the legislature: "Melchior, you have three dossiers, the sixth reform of the state, the energy pact and, the most difficult and sensitive issue, the airports." History has shown us that the situation is extremely complicated.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u114	(...) You will find that the study criticizes all the levels of power, it criticizes the residents, who reject the ball... each one has the feeling that only his commune is flying over. Secondly, I believe that the difficulty lies in the fact that we are in a state that is what it is, with shared responsibilities. We will only find a solution in this matter through a cooperation agreement, a meeting that brings everyone around the table, what do I know... In the end, it is the citizen who is the victim. The men and women politicians we are defending the people of their region. At some point, you have to roll up your sleeves, maybe with wise men like M. Van Rompuy... No, he is not wise, he defends his commons. [[Laughs]]
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u115	We will have found the solution on the day we calculate that the overall level of dissatisfaction is virtually the same. Difficult problems have been solved in the past – octopus, etc. At one point, we must move forward, otherwise it poisons relations between our governments. You have to put everyone around the table, but it won't be easy or pleasant – go read the report! I hope they will come with strong measures. You were talking about the density of the habitat: the report mentions that it is strange to fly over densely populated areas while next door there are some less inhabited areas. This is an independent report, which has judged the situation from the outside. It's all about knowing what we're going to do with it after. Will it still be the policy that chooses the roads? According to this report, this is the wrong solution: it must be entrusted to the people whose profession it is.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u116	Colleagues, we're working till 6:00. Mr Van den Bergh, I give you the floor for your question under item 38.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u117	Mr President, in view of the time and many questions to be asked, I would like to put my questions to you. 28462, 28463 and 284664 under items 38, 39 and 40 for written questions. For question No. I do so with the agreement of Mr Vandeput, who was unable to be here today and who is also asking for his supplementary question. 28559 in a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u118	OK. Questions No. 28497 No 28498 and No 28499 by Mr Laurent Devin are also converted into written questions. Questions No 28573, No 28574 and No 28575 by Mrs Anne-Catherine Goffinet are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u119	Mr. President, Minister, railway stations are important hubs of intermodality, issues at the heart of mobility and between regional and federal jurisdictions. The availability of car parks around railway stations is crucial in the choice of commuters between the different means of transport at their disposal. More and more car parks located near railway stations and owned by SNCB or one of its subsidiaries become paid. I would like information on the management of these car parks. How many car parks are currently owned by SNCB or its subsidiaries? Of these, which are they paying or will they eventually become paying? How is the decision to make a parking fee made? On what criteria? How do we define the price of the different products in each parking lot? What is the capacity of each car park? What is the theoretical average occupancy rate per weekday and weekend? What factors do they explain the difference between these two rates? Do SNCB customers have privileged access to car parks? Are they more regular customers or occasional customers? Do they have the same access to car parks? I also wonder about the operation of the car parks because not everyone is staying at the same brand in the country.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u120	Dear colleague, most of the answers to your questions can be found on the SNCB's B-Parking website. I also refer to my answers to questions Nos 26075, 19638 (transformed into written question), 3082 and 28099. In its mission as a key player in mobility in Belgium, SNCB is developing stations as a place of intermodality, with a view to optimising passenger mobility. For SNCB, access to the station is a priority in itself. Promoting mobility and the use of public transport is realistic only if passengers and commuters can easily access it. SNCB therefore invests, among other things, in the construction, extension and renovation of railway station car parks. Many railway stations are partly saturated by cars whose drivers do not pay the parking fee or occupy the parking lot without being passengers using the train, with the result that regular users of the train who pay a parking fee do not find room. The establishment of a control system was therefore required. The SNCB parking strategy is structured around four basic objectives: 1. guarantee of availability of seats for regular passengers who subscribe to the train; 2. charges differentiated by type of station and user and by local market; 3. Coverage of operational expenses by income; 4. encourage the use of public transport between the home and the station. Before the car park access control equipment, SNCB contacts the municipal authorities in order to present its project and integrate it in the best interests of all parties. On average, about 10 car parks are equipped each year. In addition, SNCB's customers benefit from a preferential tariff. For a year-round parking ticket, the average rate is 1.6 euro per day. The cost of parking is refundable by the employer or tax deductible as well as the train subscription. As regards the system for booking parking spaces via the Internet, since subscribers are guaranteed space and the majority of customers are subscribers, a reservation system is not a priority. However, such a system would improve the performance of the lead management, which is why SNCB teams are exploring possibilities using new technologies. Such a system is currently under consideration. The overall revenues of SNCB's car parks are for the country as a whole: 7.161 million in 2014, 8.485 million in 2015, 9.646 million in 2016, 11.260 million in 2017. 2018 figures are not yet available. Finally, on the question of the share of employers and paying third parties in SNCB's parking costs, all this is decided in the context of inter-branch negotiations, as are train subscriptions. This question therefore falls within the competence of my colleague Kris Peeters, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Employment, the Economy and Consumers. I invite you to refer this matter back to him. In memory, it also seems to me that the next investment plan aims to create ten thousand additional parking spaces and thirty or fifty thousand places for bicycles. I don't have the number in mind anymore, but we can find it. Mrs Goffinet, there is another surprising element: we have done an analysis of the car park in Arlon, on Landen and Waremme and a large part of the train subscribers who park their car in the SNCB car parks (40 to 50%) live less than one kilometer from the station. That's a little too bad! That's a fact. There will be no discrimination on the basis of distance, but this finding is a pity. That would be worth an analysis. Parking spaces on the municipal roads next to the railway stations may be paid, with timers or in the blue zone. I don't know, but it's amazing. I no longer have the proportions of Arlon and Landen in mind, but several tens of per cent of people who live near the stations come by car to the parking lot of the stations. The reasons for this are not well understood, but the finding is there. I repeat, this would require a detailed analysis.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u121	Minister, thank you. The development of car parks is important. I don't know the data for Arlon and Landen. I know the number of subscriptions a year, but I don't know where the subscribers come from. It is important to think about the problem you are referring to in terms of website in order to be able to reserve its place. The case of Arlon is special because, located in the border area, it is free for subscribers. There is another problem: parking spaces are not sold more than subscriptions; however, it is not 100% occupied throughout the year. It's a shame not to calculate an overbooking to make sure it's always full. For the rest, I'll ask Mr. Peeters my questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u122	Mr President, I will turn my questions Nos 28648 and 28655 into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u123	You'll announce it when we get to those two points. Questions Nos 28504, 28505, 28506, 28507, 28508, 28509 and 28510 by Mr Laurent Devin are transformed into written questions. Question No 28542 by Mr Stefaan Van Hecke and the attached questions Nos 28564 and 28567 by Mrs Inez De Coninck are transformed into written questions. As the latter has already received an answer to its attached questions Nos. 28565 and 28566, it has also transformed them into written questions. That is why I did the same for my question No 28624, which was attached to it. Questions Nos 28573, 28574 and 28575 by Mrs Anne-Catherine Goffinet are transformed into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mr David Geerts. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Geerts on his excellent report. Debates of the European Parliament Mrs De Crom's 28631 and 28632 are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u124	Mr Minister, climate change is a key issue in the agenda. In addition to the package of measures to protect the planet, there are, of course, also measures linked to mobility. Inciting more people to use public transport is, of course, also in this context. Unfortunately, there are regular strikes in which passengers are held hostage, which makes public transport less attractive and many people do not consider making the switch. In this context, the announced strike of 13 February is both socially and ecologically irresponsible. Mr Minister, are you prepared, on the basis of the general service principle, to call on the syndicates to accept their social responsibility so as not to further damage the image of public transport?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u125	Dear colleague, HR Rail informs me that its rules on social dialogue provide for the procedure to be followed when submitting a strike notice by one or more syndicated organisations. In this case, as in all other cases, HR Rail followed that procedure closely. In line with the regulations in force, HR Rail indeed organised a conciliation meeting this morning in which the presidents of the CGSP-ACOD, ACV-CSC-Transcom and SLFP-VSOA participated. They maintained the fact that the strike was announced in an intersectoral manner and their organisations participated in it. Their commitment is therefore maintained and fully covers the staff of the railways. Businesses have engaged in the process of setting up a guaranteed service. I would also like to correct one and the other where you are talking about regular strikes. It is true that, since my arrival, only two strike days have been organised on railway matters. On both days, the scheme of the guaranteed service was introduced. The press comments were positive. By definition, intersectoral strikes concern entire sectors. We must not focus on rail if we are to stop intersectorally, if we do not want to put public rail transport in a bad light again.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u126	Minister, I understand that this is happening outside your control and that people obviously have the right to strike, but I think we both share the concern that it will be a huge disaster on 13 February, both for public transport and on the road, and I regret that, most likely together with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u127	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs De Crom's 28631 and 28632 are converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Yüksel's 28641, 28642 and 28642 were converted into written questions. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van den Bergh's 28644 and 28645 have also been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u128	Mr Minister, on 1 February 2019, SNCB's tariffs were adjusted. The annual adjustment is usually roughly equal to the index adjustment, but there is quite a difference between ticket and subscription. For example, the price of living and school subscriptions increases by 1.18 % on average, while the Go Pass goes up slightly and the Rail Pass goes up considerably, from 77 to 83 euros. The price of standard and weekend bills drops by almost 2%. A first-class ticket will also be cheaper. It is striking that the bicycle ticket will now cost 4 euros for a single ride instead of 5 euros. For groups, the price for children over 12 years of age is set at 1 euro per route. A whole series of adjustments which the SNCB wants to attract more occasional travellers. Apart from that, the punctuality objective of 85.63 % was not met under Article 15 of the management contract, which also prevented prices from rising above the health index. While the overall picture of price adjustments does not go above the index, there are some notable changes. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. Can you tell us how the price adjustment procedure has been conducted? Who was involved in all this? I ask this because the NAR and the CRB have made comments about their involvement in adjusting prices. The Advisory Committee of Train Passengers and the FPS Mobility may also be involved in price adjustments. When were you informed about the price adjustments? According to the management contract, which is still in force today, I assume, the Minister must give his approval, even when it comes to price reductions of more than 10%. This is the case, for example, for the bicycle ticket. Were you involved in that price adjustment in advance? I have already referred to the NAR/CRB opinion on tariff adjustments. He also pointed out a legal incompatibility between Article 1 of the Law of 27 July 1962 and collective agreement No. 19g. This concerns the legal intervention by employers in the train subscription. In addition, since 2013, no Royal Decrees were taken with the implementation of the Law of 27 July 1962. How do you see this incompatibility? Will you fix it? Why is that? Why is that? Are you planning to work out another KB for that? Could you explain a little more about the decision to charge a 60% discount instead of 70% for groups in future? Does that answer certain questions? Finally, I would like to refer to the written preparation of my question for a number of errors that remain on the SNCB website, but I assume that they will have been or will soon be adapted.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u129	Mr President, Mr Van den Bergh, the price adjustment procedure is based on a formula proposed by the Management Committee in September. SNCB informed several public authorities and gave them the opportunity to express their views. At the end of September the Advisory Committee of the Train Passengers was received. In the middle of October, my cabinet was informed. In early November, SNCB received feedback from the Advisory Committee of Train Passengers. The tariff increase was proposed to the Central Business Council at the beginning of November and in the middle of November there was a second presentation in my cabinet. At the end of November, together with comments from stakeholders, the proposal was presented to the Governing Board and approved by it. The proposal was then forwarded to the federal government. As far as bicycle tickets are concerned, their price has indeed fallen by more than 10%. However, this is not considered as a transport product. SNCB does not receive a variable amount for this product and the tariff adjustment of this product is not subject to a specific authorisation. It is true, however, that the price of a regular physical ticket is reduced, so that those who travel back and forth are not penalised by the abolition of the day pass and do not cost them another EUR 8. As regards the legal incompatibility between the Law of 27 July 1962 and the Collective Labour Agreement 19, g, I found that the mechanism of non-indexation of the compulsory employer's contribution and the cost of living subscriptions, which has been included in the Collective Labour Agreement since 2009, has the effect that the full cost of adjusting rail tariffs to inflation is charged to workers who do not benefit from the measures to ensure full free movement of residence. In view of this situation, which gradually undermines the third-payer system, I have asked for this problem to be addressed in the context of the interprofessional negotiations. Once this has been achieved, a solution will be found to the legal problem based on the experience gained. With regard to the publication of the tables, all the tariff lists and the table of the flat-rate amounts of the employer's contribution from Article 3 of the contract of employment 9g have been published on the SNCB website and can be consulted there. These documents can also be consulted free of charge at the stations at the information offices and downloaded free of charge at www.nmbs.be. With regard to the decision to grant a reduction of 60% instead of 70% for groups, I would like to draw attention to the evolution of group conditions in two areas: a discount that evolves from 70 % to 60 % and a one-euro advance for each child under 12 years of age per trip in the context of a group reservation. This significantly improves the service provision for groups with children under 12 years of age. From now on, the groups with children under the age of 12 can enjoy only 1 euro of all the advantages of a group reservation. The measure is also aimed at framework and safety and a place on board is guaranteed. This new offer indeed responds to various requests from the youth sector and provides a solution for the so-called ghost groups. This means large groups of children who travel without reservation under the kids for free scheme with all the risks that this entails. The overall offer remains very advantageous for all groups. Finally, I would like to come to your question about the redesigned SNCB website. The problem you mentioned is in fact a technical error. SNCB is currently renewing its website. This modernisation takes place in successive phases, which means that the old and the new website exist alongside each other temporarily. From the menu of the new website there is no access to the mentioned pages. However, search engines such as Google can always refer customers to the old version of the website. This Google referral process is complex. SNCB, in particular the Informatics Service, is working with Google to improve this. By-pass solutions, the so-called redirects, are currently being implemented to avoid such problems in the future.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u130	Questions Nos 28644 and 28645 by Mr. Van den Bergh, as well as Question No 28646 by Mrs Dierick, are transformed into written questions. The same applies to questions Nos 28648 and 28655 by Mrs Goffinet. Question No 28657 by Mr Geerts is postponed. Joined Questions Nos 28664 and 28670 by Messrs. Geerts and Yüksel are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u131	Mr President, Minister, we have already mentioned on several occasions this afternoon the hearing which took place in this committee in January during which we heard the management of Infrabel and SNCB. It is on this subject that I would like to ask you a few questions. Companies have said that it is their responsibility to carry out the political vision for rail and therefore to have a vision of its own. However, Mr Lallemand has, frankly, expressed his own. This one called me. Mr Lallemand felt that rail transport should serve as a mass transport between the main centres and the train would be the backbone of a transport offer supplemented by lighter and electric means. The Belgian network is 3,700 kilometres long for 11 million people, while in the Netherlands, he said, the network is 3,000 kilometres long for 17 million people. He therefore believes that the secondary lines should be replaced by macadam on which autonomous electric vehicles would be driven. According to him, if we decide to go in this direction, we will need less resources. In any case, given this vision, he thinks he doesn't need more money in the very near future. Conversely, driving a train on a double-track infrastructure with a catenary that needs to be maintained to have one train per hour, with a occupancy rate of 10 to 20%, is a waste of public resources. This does not correspond to the relevance of the train product in transport economy. He also believes that Infrabel will need more money if we decide to continue the current railway service. This is in line with what Infrabel said at his hearing on the PPI, namely that, without refinancing by 2021, lnfrabel will no longer be able to operate all the lines. Infrabel therefore believes that it does not need more financial resources in the short term, given its vision of the eventual dismantling of secondary lines. This is in sharp contrast to Article 3 of the recently adopted Cooperation Agreement on the financing of strategic rail infrastructure, which states that until 2031 the entire network would be maintained, in particular lines serving low-density areas, without the removal of any kilometre of railway line necessary for traffic. Infrabel, who is supposed to implement the vision of politics and ask for the corresponding means, therefore applies his own vision, in a policy of fait accompli. Minister, does the vision presented by Mr Lallemand correspond to the inter-federal vision of mobility that you are proposing? Is this vision shared by SNCB? Do you confirm that Infrabel does not need more financial resources and thus implicitly endorse Infrabel's vision of dismantling secondary lines? How do you intend to maintain the entire network, especially for low-density lines, without any railway kilometres required for traffic being removed? I'd like to hear from you about that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u132	Mrs Goffinet, I leave Mr Lallemand free to speak. As CEO of an autonomous company, he has the right to have a vision and perspective. On the other hand, the State as a shareholder must itself establish guidelines which management must also establish. Point on the line! Mr Lallemand may have a vision, but it is up to the government to define, take decisions and take action. My view is that we are at a moment's notice in terms of mobility. Congestion has never been so strong. Different studies show that we are at a point of inflection in the use of the car. Last year, according to the Mobility and Transport FPS, car use was reduced by 1%. At the same time, there has been an increase in the number of passengers on SNCB trains of 3.5% each in the last two years. I would also point out that the Plan Office, in a vision it presented last week, said that, on the basis of what was in place in 2016, the growth in the number of travellers was 1 per cent. I dare to believe that the measures we took in December 2016 - to add 72 trains in and around Brussels - and in the Transport Plan 2017 - to increase rail supply by 5.1% - are for something in the higher growth than expected by the Plan Bureau. I believe that this shows that the lines are moving in the relationship between individual modes of transport and modes of public transport. Far from me the idea of shouting victory, but these observations are positively appealing when one sees the growing concern of citizens for the preservation of the planet. I look forward to strengthening the rail offer in 2016, as well as in 2017. In the same vein, I have fought to ensure that, in the context of the borrowing of the virtuous billion, the "capeau" cooperation agreement preserves the network in its current configuration by providing, in Article 3: "The parties undertake to ensure the maintenance of the entire network, in particular for low-density lines, without any kilometre of railway line necessary for traffic being removed." I thank all the parliamentary groups for supporting me during the vote in committee and then in plenary. For at least 12 to 13 years, this is what is behind the current rail network. As I told you earlier, thanks to the 5.3 billion investments made this year - roughly over one billion a year - we are going to add 100 kilometres of track to the rail network. I hope this information reassures you, Mrs. Goffinet. The Federal State has therefore committed itself, for the duration of the cooperation agreement, to provide Infrabel with the means necessary to maintain all the railway lines indispensable for traffic. It is now up to Infrabel to determine the amounts required for this purpose, while taking into account the current state of the network.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u133	I was not reassured by the words of Mr Lallemand, who were really opposed to the newly voted cooperation agreement in this Parliament. I agree with the minister on the increase in the number of travellers, and on the conscious wish of everyone to move towards other means of transport, but I really hope that Infrabel will do his job in this direction. It will need to assess the financial means it needs to maintain the lines, to maintain them. Indeed, the speech that was heard at the hearings is totally in opposition to this point. I hope that the political vision and vision that we have all had and for which we have supported you will be well applied within the structure.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-06-54-commissie-ic1031x.u134	Questions Nos 28668 and 28669 by Mrs Goffinet were postponed until the next meeting. As the agenda is exhausted, I shall adjourn the session.
