ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1075x.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, we are having a hearing today with Mr Wittoeck, whom we welcome here. This is the follow-up to the hearing some time ago, to which Mr Wittoeck and the Minister gave an explanation. There was no time to answer the questions at the time. The questions were sent in writing to Mr Wittoeck, whom she will answer today. Questions can be added. Are there any people who would like to add a question? [[No.]] I shall then give the floor to Mr Wittoeck to answer the questions he has raised and those elements which can contribute to what the Minister has said. I am thinking in particular of the technical aspects.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1075x.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Thank you for the opportunity to address a few more questions that you had after the explanatory statement by myself and Minister Marghem at the previous meeting of this committee. I hope that this can continue to serve the debate on climate policy in general. As the President pointed out, I will, of course, try to answer the questions that have been put directly to me, but perhaps anticipating the intervention of the Minister later, I suppose, I will also give some information relating to the questions that have been put to the Minister. For starters, I hope I respect the order here. I may begin with the questions that Mr Van Hees has put to the Minister, and I would like to give some technical clarifications for some of them, in particular with regard to the first question, assuming that the current emission reduction is 1% per year, which is qualified by the questioner as a largement insuffisant. We have looked at the historical reduction rate for all sectors, for the emissions of Belgium as a whole, i.e. non-ETS and ETS, and then more specifically for the non-ETS sectors, because Belgian and federal policies have or can have a greater impact on this than in the ETS sectors, which are, of course, largely determined by European policies. First of all, perhaps a historical perspective. Where the questioner posted a figure of 1%, according to our figures for the period 2005-2017 for all emissions together, both ETS and non-ETS, emissions in Belgium decreased by 1.77 % per year. If one only looks at the non-ETS sectors, i.e. mainly buildings and transport, in addition to agriculture and waste, the annual reduction rate from 2005 to 2017 is 0.85%. That's for further clarification. Let us compare this with the linear reduction rates that would be necessary to move towards our 2030 target in the non-ETS sectors. You will remember the -35 % that Belgium has to achieve in these sectors compared to 2005. If a linear trajectory is drawn from 2017 to 2030, this means an emission reduction of 1.81 % per year compared to 2005. Let us then look further, because, of course, climate policy is currently looking very much at the longer term, at horizon 2050. If we were to adopt the same emission reduction rate for Belgium for the non-ETS sectors as the emission reduction rate set by the European Commission in its long-term strategy, in a scenario aiming at carbon neutrality within the 1.5 °C target, i.e. a reduction of 86 to 87 % by 2050 compared to 2005, this would mean that the emission reduction rate in Belgium should be 2.6 % on an annual basis between 2030 and 2050, i.e. from the 35 % to that 86 % or 87 %. We have also carried out a small sensitivity analysis. If the fork of 80 to 95 %, which has been widely used so far, were to be used as the final destination of the route in 2050, an annual emission reduction of 2.3 % and a scenario of 95 % would result in an annual emission reduction of 3.1 %. Each of these scenarios involves a plurality of the historic path, as we have noted between 2005 and today. I would like to explain this in more detail to Mr Van Hees' first question. The last part of Mr Van Hees's fifth question refers to climate coaches. In order to avoid any confusion, I would like to give you some more information. Our administration supervises that project and also initiated it in 2017, so a while before the peak in public attention and comments on the role of climate coaches in that context. Let me give you some key figures on the activities of these climate coaches. First of all, what do they do? They go to the third degree in secondary schools to guide classes in a debate on climate change. There is a piece of information on the impact of climate change and on policy in this area. Very specifically, the climate coaches are also provided by our administration with a tool, My2050. This is a simplified model that allows students to work on drawing up their own long-term journey. Thus, by putting more or less ambition first in all sectors, they can model a carbon-neutral or non-carbon future. The aim is therefore to have a debate on this issue. The aim is to make young people understand what the challenges are and not just in terms of the demands of the climate according to science. This seems clear when one looks at the slogans during the climate debates. It is also about what this means in terms of the system transition needed in our society. That happens with great success, so far. Since 2017, our climate coaches have been intervening 500 times in schools, where they have been able to reach more than ten thousand students. Those students, I told you, started working with the My2050 Web Tool. We have already been able to record more than 5,000 scenarios, made by the young people themselves, leading to reductions of 80% to 95% by 2050. I thought it would be useful for you to objectify the role of climate coaches, because we have often seen them discussed in a political context on which, of course, I am not speaking. This is the further explanation of the subject of the sixth question from Mr Van Hees's series of questions to Minister Marghem, which contains two parts. The first question concerns the fact that Belgium did not join the High Ambition Coalition at COP24 in Katowice. You may well be well aware of the dynamics of this in Belgium. I would particularly like to give some information on the second part of Mr Van Hees' question. Wouldn't it be? no better than Belgium takes a leading position internationally? Even though Belgium has not been able to join the statement of the High Ambition Coalition prior to the COP24, and I recommend that you read that document at the initiative of Belgium and in the framework of the Belgian Presidency of the Benelux Union, last year, a political statement was agreed between Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg, the Benelux Talanoa Declaration. It was presented at COP24. There are many things in this, but in particular in the context of the ambition debate, there is a very explicit invitation to the European Commission to examine, within three months of the COP24, options to increase the European NDC's 2030 European objective, in the context of long-term pathways, consistent with carbon neutrality. That is one explanation of the role Belgium has played in the past few months in terms of leadership. More recently, in February, there was also the international conference on climate and oceans, where the Brussels Declaration "The Ocean and Climate Change" was approved. It has now been signed by more than 30 countries and a number of organisations. Because the link between climate and oceans is so great, it also contains a message of necessary ambition and refers to the summit organised by UN Secretary-General Guterres. I think I told you something about this at my presentation at the last sitting. It looks forward to this summit as an opportunity to achieve the objectives of the Paris Agreement. More specifically, it is also a call on all parties to the Paris Agreement, as the Secretary-General explicitly asks, to discuss at the summit the possibilities to elaborate on their NDCs or targets to be set at the United Nations by 2020, in line with long-term strategies, consistent with a carbon neutrality pathway. As far as these two examples are concerned, Belgium has taken on a leadership role. Finally, Mr Van Hees asked a question about the carbon price. Another question was asked about this, so perhaps I will come back to it in a little more detail later. In essence, the question was about the social impact of a possible carbon price. I anticipate what I will tell you later. The potentially negative redistributing impact of the carbon price has been a determining factor from the outset, one of the pillars of the analysis and consultation work that our department has carried out on behalf of the Minister over the past two years in the context of the national carbon price debate. With your permission, Mr President, I shall turn to the questions put to me and the Minister by the CD&V Group. Some of the questions asked to the Minister seem to me to be of a factual and technical nature, and so I will try to answer some of them. The first question concerns the overall reduction of greenhouse gas emissions achieved by the federal government so far. This question was put to the Minister. In the context of the national burden-sharing agreement, but actually much longer than that, our administration carries out an assessment of the impact of the federal measures about every two years. The last time we did that was in July 2017. I can give you some figures on the evaluated impact per period. For the first Kyoto commitment period, from 2008 to 2012, it was 20.5 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent, an average of 4.1 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent per year. This corresponds to about 4% of emissions in 2005. For the present period, we have to look back in part and look forward in part. For the period 2013 to 2018, the federal measures would amount to 56.3 million tonnes of CO2 equivalents, an average of 9.4 million tonnes of CO2 equivalents per year or 6% of emissions in 2005. We also first looked at the impact in ETS and non-ETS sectors. There was 64% impact in the non-ETS sectors and 36% in the ETS sectors. The impact on the ETS sectors is mainly the result of the federal policy on electricity consumption and on production. Plant production is one of the sectors covered by ETS. If we look ahead to the impact over the entire current period from 2013 to 2020, we estimate that the total emission reduction will be 86.6 million tonnes or 10.8 million tonnes per year, which corresponds to about 7% of emissions in 2005. The distribution between ETS and non-ETS sectors is broadly the same as I just mentioned, except for a few percent. I will give more details about the measures later. As I mentioned, the impact in the ETS sectors is mainly felt by measures that indirectly affect electricity production. As I said, it is an obligation for the federal government in the context of the burden-sharing cooperation agreement. Now, that cooperation agreement also states that the methodology used by the federal government must be approved by the National Climate Commission, but the National Climate Commission has not yet managed to reach an agreement on the methodology. To what I am told, that is, firstly, because there would be disagreement as to what could be charged as new and existing policies and, secondly, because federal product policy was partly developed in our context in order to implement the European Ecodesign Directive. There is therefore a disagreement in the National Climate Committee between the representatives of the four governments represented on which measures and measures do not count. I would add that point to my speech, because the figures I give you have not been validated by that body because of the internal blockades. I replied to the second question on the percentage share. What is the specific impact of each federal government policy measure? That is the third question put to Minister Marghem. The whole list of measures is available in the study I have just referred to. I can get you the study. She is also consultable on the website of the National Climate Commission and on our website. It's a very long list. In the first instance, therefore, I shall confine myself to the measures with the greatest impact. I will start with the period 2013-2020, then give you the figures for the period 2021-2030. It concerns the impact of existing policies on the period covered by the national energy and climate plan. The Ecodesign Directive in Belgium falls within the competence of the federal government. The expected impact of the Ecodesign Directive........ I will confine myself to the impact on the non-ETS sectors.............................................................................................................................................................................. That is the measure that, according to our analysis, has the greatest impact. This is followed by the now abolished "non-life insurance" measure, which still works through "tax benefits" to promote energy efficiency in households. If one only looks at effort sharing, the impact is greater. The impact is 17 755,4 kilotons of CO2 equivalents over the whole period. Offshore wind is also important, but has no impact on the non-ETS sectors. The impact on the ETS sectors is 10 618 kilotons of CO2 equivalents. As far as biofuels are concerned, if we remain within the context of renewable fuels, they are expected to have an impact of 10 959,2 kilotons of C02 equivalents over the period 2013-2020. Finally, the European Regulation on the phasing out of the use and emission of fluorinated greenhouse gases is also expected to have a significant impact in Belgium. I will end this list with the most significant policy measure, the tax deduction for energy savings, which would account for 2 473,1 kilotons of CO2 equivalents in the non-ETS sectors. These were the measures for the period 2013-2020. I now come to the period 2021-2030. These are not measures implemented in view of the national energy and climate plan, as the analysis dates back to 2017, long before the draft national energy and climate plan was adopted. For reference I give a number of figures for that period. These figures are the continuation of the policy adopted prior to the establishment of the NEFP. As regards the energy label, there are 41 445.7 kilotons of CO2 equivalent for the period 2021-2030. The fiscal advantage of energy efficiency investments by households, which is still ongoing, accounts for 19 752.5 kilotons. Offshore winds in the ETS sectors may not really fit into the list, but it is useful to know...... is good for 27 463.4 kilotons. The tax deduction for energy savings represents 2 884,7 kilotons, the biofuels 23 536,6 kilotons and the fluorinated greenhouse gases 20 635,2 kilotons. That is the further detailing of the global figures, which I have just given you. The federal government has committed itself in the co-operation agreement on Burden Sharing 2013-2020 to continue the existing policy in proportion to 15 000 kilotons of CO2 equivalents and 7 000 kilotons of CO2 equivalents to take new measures over that period. Will this additional reduction in emissions be achieved? According to our estimates, yes. The emission reduction achieved by additional policies would even far exceed 7 000 kilotons and would amount to 14 879 kilotons over the period 2016-2020. The measures identified in that context are, among other things, l'algacation mobilité positive.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Specific questions were asked as to how much electricity the windmills produce in the North Sea. We do not manage this ourselves and I do not have the figures per year. Between 2009, the year of the first connection of offshore wind turbines to the Belgian network, and 2018, the current installations, these wind turbines together produced 16 872 gigawatthure, or 1.45 megaton oil equivalents. The target for renewable energy on horizon 2020 is for Belgium at 13% of gross final energy consumption. Now, the percentage share of offshore electricity, i.e. the contribution of the federal government via offshore wind turbines, amounts to 17% of the total Belgian effort. I would also like to inform you that, in the longer term, by 2030 horizon, Belgium has proposed to the European Commission a renewable energy target of 18.3% for itself in the draft national energy and climate plan. The increased share of offshore wind to 4 gigawatt installed power would amount to 22% of the Belgian effort. The following question goes a bit wider: will Belgium meet its climate targets for horizon 2020? I assume that it concerns the objectives in the non-ETS sectors, i.e. the -15% on horizon 2020 compared to 2005. To this end, I must first remind you that Belgium's obligation in the context of European legislation not only involves achieving that -15 % by 2020, but also to achieve a number of annual targets along a linear path over the period 2013-2020. That is important, I think, for your reading of my answer to this question. If we were to look only at 2020, we would not have the existing measures and there would be a gap of around 3.3 million tonnes of CO2 equivalents by 2020. If additional measures were taken, there would be a slight surplus to the target of about half a million tonnes of CO2 equivalent. This is relevant if we are indeed looking at 2020 as a benchmark. If we look at things in terms of European legislation for the whole period, it can be expected that Belgium, formally speaking, will meet its European objectives, even if we are above the targets by 2020. This is because European legislation provides for a number of flexibility mechanisms. One of the flexibility mechanisms means that the surplus in the years in which it is performed better than the annual targets on the linear trajectory may be transferred to the following years. Since Belgium remained below its target path at the beginning of the current period, we have been able to gather quite a few such allowances, probably enough to have respected our European objective over the entire period by 2020. That is why I made the difference clear to you and mentioned 2020 as a benchmark. Nevertheless, in the context of the European Semester, the recommendations of the European Council, based on analyses by the European Commission, have for years identified in very explicit terms the risk that Belgium will not land on the requested 15% by 2020 The same was said last week, in the context of the in-depth review of our seventh national communication by the United Nations. However, that is a very technical exercise. The UN auditors' team has made the same observation that has been made in the context of the European Semester, and for years, namely that Belgium would not be on the track by 2020. The reduction in emissions that the federal government wants to achieve by 2030 was the subject of the following question, as well as the way in which this reduction should be achieved. Well, in the design of national energy and climate plan, the federal policy vehicle by horizon 2020, no specific emission reduction is granted to the federal government. However, in this draft, the federal government has proposed to commit itself to continuing existing policies. An important element for you to write down is the following. The decisions under the National Energy and Climate Plan also provide for the regions to identify what federal policies they consider appropriate to support the implementation of their own climate and energy policies. The Federal Government has been instructed to analyse and reply to these proposals, questions and the like from the Regions. I can't give you that answer yet. The analysis has largely been done, but I cannot tell you at this time when the answer will be ready. However, it could follow that additional federal measures still need to be taken. I think I showed you a small statistic during my presentation, which showed, among other things, that it is, of course, indicative that most of the questions of the regions relate to taxation in the broad sense, VAT, carbon price, energy tax etc. and, secondly, to mobility. Then there was a question as to how this emission reduction should be achieved. I cannot yet give an answer to this, as the reduction in emissions has not yet been decided. But maybe I should leave out the word "still" in the previous sentence. I'll have to give you the following. The federal government has committed itself to quantifying its own measures in the context of the energy and climate plan in terms of resources by the end of June 2019. For the federal building heritage, the fleet and the vehicles of the federal government institutions and SNCB, this is in terms of results, i.e. in terms of emission reduction. The agreement on the design of the Energy and Climate Plan does not exclude that all federal measures will be formally evaluated in terms of their emission reduction, but the mandate has not been given. With regard to the biennial exercise that has been carried out by our administration for about ten years, i.e. the assessment of the impact of federal policy, I have to tell you that we are currently so understaffed that it will, unfortunately, be delayed. Finally, as regards the questions of the CD&V Group to Minister Marghem to the European Union to argue for a higher reduction target for 2030, as expressed in the resolution on the repositioning of Belgium in the international climate debate, I would refer you once again to the very explicit call in the context of the Benelux Talanoa Declaration to the European Commission to analyse options, and the call to all parties to the Paris Agreement in the context of the Brussels Declaration "The Ocean and Climate Change." I now come to the questions that were addressed directly to me. Will Belgium as a whole meet the climate target for 2020? I have just answered that question. It was also asked whether the European Union would strengthen its 2030 reduction target, as requested by a number of Member States and as indirectly suggested by the Benelux countries and in the Brussels Declaration "The Ocean and Climate Change." In a recent resolution, the European Parliament also called on the European Union to raise the current emission reduction target of 40% by 2030, which is consistent with an 80% reduction in emissions by 2050 to 55%. Moreover, the Commission has repeatedly stated in the past that increasing the European renewable energy and energy efficiency targets from 27% to 32% and 32.5% respectively de facto leads to an increase in emission reductions in the European Union of around 45%. There would be a de facto scaling-up of European emission reductions from 40% to 45%. Then there are the pathways in the European Commission's proposal of November last year for a long-term strategy. The routes leading to climate neutrality in 2050 also include between 45% and 46% of emissions reduction in 2030 compared to 1990. This is therefore in the same order of magnitude as the emission reduction that is de facto expected by strengthening the renewable energy and energy efficiency targets. However, it should be noted that the speed at which emissions are reduced according to these pathways is higher after 2030 than before. If one assumes a linear trajectory between any year before 2030 and climate neutrality by 2050, then there should be more reduction than that 45%. If that 45% or 46% were to become the Union target for 2030, it would mean an acceleration of annual emission reductions after that year in order to achieve climate neutrality by 2050. That was therefore the introduction to the answer to the question of whether there are any indications that the Union will strengthen its reduction targets. What we hear informally is that the European Commission has no intention of putting forward any proposals on the subject in this legislature. This legislature is not going to last much longer either. The result of raising the European NDC to another figure would, of course, be a whole package of legislation, ETS, non-ETS, renewable energy and energy efficiency. It is therefore a very large part of the package that has been drawn up in previous years. Anyway, there are no concrete indications that the European Commission will propose a new NDC. This is a major challenge for the new European Commission after the European elections, especially in view of the role that the European Union has always given itself as leader in international negotiations. It is expected that the leader of these negotiations will put a new NDC on the table in 2020. Previously, Secretary-General Guterres also expressed the expectation that at his summit in September as many countries, parties, United Nations Member States as possible would announce that they would increase their level of ambition contained in their NDCs. There were questions related to the European Commission's comments on the draft national energy and climate plan 2021-2030. We expect the European Commission's comments by 30 June this year. I cannot give you much more details about the further timeline, because the competent bodies have not yet taken a decision on this matter. The draft National Energy and Climate Plan was established by a joint Steering Committee on Energy Consultations between the State and the Regions, on the one hand, and the National Climate Commission, on the other. The precise timing of the further process and the way in which the recommendations of the European Commission, of the Chamber, of the Advisory Councils and of our neighbouring countries, which we ask for their opinion in the context of the pentalateral forum, as required by the Energy Union Regulation, are not yet known to us, except that the process will have to end with approval by the National Climate Committee and ENOVER by 25 December at the latest, and finally also by the Consultation Committee. One of the key elements in this further process is the public consultation. I was asked how it is organized. There too, I fear that the process is not transparent to the extent that I can fully inform you about it. There, a working group has been set up again in the context of the joint steering committee of the National Climate Commission and ENOVER. Initially, this working group consisted of specialists from the administrations. The working group met on 31 January, but it was then decided to remove the further process from the hands of officials and to put its further examination, the preparation of questions for the public consultation, in the hands of an inter-kabinets working group. Officials will be involved once the questions, the accompanying texts and the summaries have been approved by the Interkabinets Working Group. They can still be submitted to the steering group's working group for technical examination. The next question concerns the introduction of a carbon price, which I have just mentioned. For the introduction of a carbon price, the administration has developed three possible scenarios in its research. I was asked to clarify this. I will not just talk about the three possible scenarios, three price paths that we have discussed with stakeholders and other regional and federal departments that have taken part in the national debate; I will also briefly remind you of the main thrust of that discussion. The price trajectories have been viewed and calculated, but of course they are not the only relevant parameters of a possible carbon price. So let me remind you of the three general principles that formed the basis for the debate, namely budget neutrality, the long-term perspective and embedding in a wide range of measures aimed at a transition towards a low carbon future. There are four key elements which define the modalities for the introduction of a carbon price: firstly, the scope or sectors; secondly, the price level and the price path; thirdly, the use of the revenue of a possible carbon price and, fourthly, the alignment of the carbon price with the whole of the policy. We have kept these three routes in mind. They start over the period 2020-2030. Each route will start in 2020 at 10 euros per tonne of CO2 equivalents, to evolve to 40 euros, 70 euros and 100 euros per tonne of CO2 equivalents by 2030. The numbers aren't randomly chosen. The EUR 40 per tonne as the final destination of the first possible route corresponds to what the European Commission expects as a carbon price in the European Emissions Trading System. The national debate concerned only the non-ETS sectors. So the 40 euros per tonne would bring the carbon price in the non-ETS sectors to the same level as the carbon price expected in the current ETS on horizon 2030. The high side of the viewed fork, which is EUR 100 per tonne of CO2 equivalents, was there to see what would happen in Belgium and would be possible if we applied the same order of magnitude as, for example, France or Sweden. The 100 euros per tonne of CO2 equivalents is also recommended by the High-Level Commission on Carbon Prices. That is a committee in the context of the Carbon Pricing Leadership Coalition, an initiative of the World Bank. The committee is chaired by Professor Stiglitz and by Nicholas Stern, both of whom you may know. The EUR 70 per tonne is a kind of intermediate level between the two extreme scenarios. It is important that we have looked not only at a number of basic principles, a number of key elements that will determine the modalities of policy, but also at the concrete options that exist, without prejudging which option should be preferred. One possibility is to adjust excise duties on the basis of the carbon content of the fuels taxed by excise duties, with the possibility of limiting them against a benchmark with neighbouring countries. When you look at the transport sector, the mileage tax, road pricing, is an option to modulate according to carbon emissions. In the industrial sector, there is an opportunity to charge the carbon price to the voluntary energy agreements and the accords to the industry as existing in the Walloon and Flemish regions. I was just talking about a limit to a benchmark with neighbouring countries. Throughout the process, we have also looked at the impact of the benchmark, in other words how, in a certain scenario with the carbon price, the price of energy sources in Belgium would be affected compared to the price in our neighbouring countries. If we look at France, the Netherlands and Germany, fuel oil prices are today 26% lower than the average of the neighbouring countries mentioned. For natural gas, that is 23%. In the transport sector the difference is less pronounced: for professional diesel the price in Belgium is 4% lower; for ordinary diesel it is the other way around, because it is 7 % more expensive in Belgium; for petrol the price is 8 % lower. Given that the social dimension is of course an important factor in the discussions, I think it is important to recall the impact of a carbon price on the annual energy bill, given that the possible negative redistributing effect of a carbon price is of course an important factor in the discussions. For heating homes in the price level B, the trajectory going to 70 euros per tonne, and considered in the context of a broader policy of decarbonising our society, the energy bill would fall from 1 418 euros in 2020, with 32 euros carbon price, to 1 270 euros, with 127 euros carbon components, by 2030, or a 10% decrease in energy bill in ten years. Passenger transport We are looking at the annual average energy bill per vehicle..... would decrease from €1731 in 2020 to €1 360 in 2030, or a decrease of 21 %. This in itself does not say much about the possible redistributing effect; it does say something about the size of what causes the carbon price in terms of costs for families to move around by car or to heat their homes. How can carbon price yields be viewed? In this context, we have examined the possibility of meeting the negative redistributing effect, which is a particular risk in the building sector. I take the Swiss model as an example. In Switzerland, all households are reimbursed a lump sum, a fixed, equal amount, from the proceeds of the carbon price they pay. That amount is of that order that there is a net profit for the lower income figures. They get more in return than they pay at carbon price. This has to do with the fact that they use less energy in absolute terms than the higher income levels. Higher income actors therefore pay more and get less back. In this sense, there is a positive redistributing effect. There are, of course, other ways of achieving this. For example, the proceeds can be used to finance investments aimed at the transition in public transport, for example. I'm also thinking about car ownership. Better accessibility through public transport has a positive redistributing effect. In the context of potential carbon price yields, I will also give you a number of figures. In the intermediate scenario, with a price path B, going to €70 per tonne in 2030, the carbon price would yield €2.6 billion in 2030, not accumulated over a period of time, but in 2030, and start with a yield of €600 million in 2020. If we increase the price, as in section C, by EUR 100 per tonne in 2030, the yield would be EUR 3.7 billion by 2030. These amounts can be said to be significant, I believe. They make the possibilities for recycling revenue interesting, for example to compensate for the social impact. There are also other possibilities for the recycling of revenue. Of course, these possibilities do not have to be mutually exclusive. One possibility that we looked at is a tax shift, whereby the labour costs are reduced, using those revenues. Another option is a shift to electricity, i.e. less electricity charges and more fossil fuel charges through the carbon price, because electrification is one of the levers for the transition to a low carbon future in the longer term. But as I said earlier, these are flat-rate transfers to certain groups of the population, or targeted transfers to the weaker groups and to certain sectors. Funding funds aimed at supporting renovation programmes or specific funds to support SMEs, technological innovation funds, etc. are also possible. Investment in infrastructure, too, I was just talking about public transport, which was referred to as opportunities. In short, there is a wide range of possible destinations for the returns. As I said, the concept of budget neutrality is important. In order to avoid any misunderstandings, I make it clear that it must be a closed whole, in the sense that carbon price yields are used within the same context, albeit socially, albeit with a view to stimulating transition. Finally, policy alignment, embedding in a wide range of measures, aligning the carbon price with the other policies, is important. The carbon price is not a silver bullet, but one of the elements that can guide and steer investment and behaviour in a particular direction, and it is, of course, necessary that the wider policy also goes in the same direction. In the light of policy alignment, a number of specific policy areas should be considered, including the renovation strategies in the building sector, which are mainly owned by the Regions, the policy to improve air quality and specific fiscal measures, such as a number of exemptions or reduced rates for some fossil fuels. Furthermore, in the building sector, for example, it is necessary to examine whether the cadastral income and/or the property levy can be made coherent. VAT schemes, the mileage tax, road pricing and, of course, the system of company or salary cars and other elements of transport tax should also be examined. This was a very brief summary of the very intensive study and consultation work carried out in the context of the national carbon price debate. All documentation, including the figures I have given, is available via the website www.climate.be/2050 under the heading carbon tarification. Then I come to the last series of questions to the Minister and myself, from the PS Group. The PS group had asked the Minister what penalties would be imposed for failure to meet the 2020 targets for reducing greenhouse gases and renewable energy. The penalties provided for are the same as those generally provided for in non-compliance with obligations in the context of European legislation. This is a notice of formal notice, possibly followed by a conviction by the Court of Justice to pay a fine, a periodic penalty payment. The same logic and governance system apply to greenhouse gas and renewable energy targets. So here we are for 2020. By 2030, the situation is a little different, I suppose, not for greenhouse gas emissions, because Belgium has a binding target, as is the case by 2020. On the other hand, there are no targets imposed by European legislation directly for renewables. I don't know how to answer you in the affirmative. In the context of the National Energy-Climate Plan, Belgium has an obligation, through the regulation on the governance of the Energy Union, to propose an objective for itself. But I do not know to what extent the Court of Justice would judge in the same way on a bottom-up objective as on an objective contained in a European directive. The question was indeed about the targets set for 2020. I was asked three questions. I'm asking you for a moment because I'm getting a little lost in my painting. The first asked what were the causes of the increase in greenhouse gas emissions observed since 2015 in Belgium and whether emissions from European member countries had also increased or decreased since 2015. For the first part concerning the increase in greenhouse gas emissions observed in Belgium, there has indeed been an increase in emissions, but the overall trend remains a reduction. In particular, the increase observed in 2015 over 2014, this increase is relative in the sense that emissions in 2014 were particularly low, as 2014 was a relatively hot year and in which emissions from the building sector, heating emissions from buildings were particularly low. This is therefore not a trend but rather the results of inter-annual variability. The second part of this question is the comments on emissions in the other EU member countries. Generally, at the European level as a whole, emissions have tended to stagnate since 2014. There has been no increase, but stagnation since 2014. Another important element to note is that, nevertheless, the collective programmes of the Member States remain well below the collective ambition. If we look at all the linear trajectories in the context of the sharing decision effort, we move towards an overachievement. That said, it is still important to note that, although the 28 EU Member States as a whole will meet the collective ceiling imposed on them by legislation in the non-ETS sector, there are a number of countries that have exceeded the trajectory in 2016. These include Malta, which has been in this case for years, but more recently also Finland, Poland, Ireland, Germany and Belgium. The last compliance cycle is in 2016. The 2017 compliance cycle has yet to begin. It is not yet known whether this trend will continue. I think it is important for you to note, and I refer to a slide that I presented at the previous session of this committee, that Belgium's 2016 broadcasts have been reviewed in the meantime. It's a perfectly normal procedure. Emissions are corrected retroactively. This correction has yet to be validated by the European Commission. This correction would not put Belgium in breach. Formally, Belgium remains in breach as the pre-correction figures are used in the compliance cycle. It is important to inform you that Belgium will not automatically be, with this correction of emissions in the 2016 inventory, above the annual ceiling foreseen by the Effort Sharing Decision in 2017. I turn to the penultimate question in my list, where reference is made to a number of Member States requesting an increase of at least 40% in the European target, etc. I would like to inform you that, in the context of ambition in 2050 and in the context of the debate on the European long-term strategy, nine Member States have expressed their support for carbon neutrality. This carbon neutrality can also influence the level of ambition in 2030 if it becomes the European target. These are the Netherlands, Luxembourg, France, Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Spain, Italy and Latvia. To our knowledge, Portugal has not yet made a formal statement in the Council of the European Union, but has expressed, in other contexts, the desire to increase the level of European ambition from 80 to 95 % by 2030 – which is more or less carbon neutrality – so as to have an impact on 40%. You know that, because – if I am not mistaken – you refer to it in one of your resolutions. I am thinking of the countries that were called the Paris Proof Coalition, which launched an appeal about a year ago: France, Germany, the Netherlands, Sweden, Finland, Portugal, Spain and Luxembourg. It is also important to note that several EU Member States have not only requested that the level of long-term ambition be raised at European level. The Benelux and the coalition around the Brussels Declaration on Oceans and Climate have been very explicit in this regard. This is the case in the Netherlands, through the Rutte III government agreement, which advocates a European target of 55%. This state is not just calling on the European Union to raise the level of ambition, as it has set itself, at national level, the goal of reducing greenhouse gas ambitions by 49% by 2030. For their part, Sweden and Finland set a carbon-neutral target for 2045, while Portugal set the same target for 2050. In addition, national sectoral targets have been developed in terms of decarbonisation. I won't give you all the details here. If you wish, I can do it then. Other countries have ambitions that go beyond what is required by European legislation. These include the United Kingdom, which to date is still part of the European Union and France. The final question is whether the Climate Change Department of the FPS Public Health has read the proposed climate law and whether it has any comments to make. I can inform you that we are following your work very closely and with great interest. In this context, I do not think it would be appropriate or useful to go into the details with regard to the proposal for a special law itself. However, I would like to remind you that the proposal made initially by academics is an unexpected consequence of the cycle of academic seminars on climate governance in Belgium organised, during 2018, by our SPF and more particularly by our service. All the results of this academic work, which was largely conducted by a scientific committee with many guests belonging to academic institutions (Belgian universities and other Belgian policy stakeholders and administrations), are available on the climate.be website. If you are doing research on climate governance, you will have access not only to the synthesis report, but also to the reports of the four academic seminars, which to a large extent constitute an analytical basis that motivated the academic authors to draft their draft legislation. In short, during this cycle of seminars, we found that climate policy, in the reality of this country, with the kind of federalism that Belgium is experiencing, is something particularly complicated. We are talking about the broad range of competences, the transversal nature, but also about the fragmentation of climate competences. The other side of this coin is the need for greater coherence and coordinated action, and certainly the need to formulate a clear vision. That's also compared to other federal systems. I read here a comparison with the United States, where the federal system, because a lot of powers are in the hands of the states, has just an upward effect in terms of climate policy. Unfortunately, according to the report in Belgium, this upward follow-up effect has not been demonstrated. There is talk of too rigid division of powers, based on principles of exclusivity and autonomy and not on principles such as the principle of mutuality, which is called a positive approach to the principle of federal loyalty. Cooperation as it has so far been in Belgium is also discussed. As you know, it is very largely based on cooperation agreements. I have just referred a few times to the National Climate Commission, which unfortunately too often fails to make timely decisions. If you look at the analysis we made in 2013, you will see that it simply ignores a number of commitments to the parliaments, particularly in terms of transparency. These reports confirm that the 2002 cooperation agreement set up by the National Climate Commission is not being properly implemented. There is also reference to other exercises that have been made in recent years. Opinions of the regional and federal advisory bodies and the Senate's information report are recalled here. There are also references to the problematic climate governance in Belgium in various resolutions adopted by this Chamber. The report on climate governance puts an important focus on the driving force, federalism. For example, in the United States, there is now a driving force for a climate policy that is more coherent with the necessary ambition set out by science. In the report, the authors argue that such a driving force is absent in Belgium. The interparliamentary consultation, as you first organised on an ad hoc basis last year, is also referred to as such a driving force. Furthermore, the objectification of climate policy is also mentioned as a driving force, also a message that I have often read in your resolutions in recent years. For example, a scientific basis for policy was advocated. The issue of whether or not this can be objectiveised by addressing the climate in the Constitution has also been a subject of discussion. Of course, the obligations and requirements imposed by the European Union also apply. The vigilance of citizens at the moment is also referred to as a driving force, which raises the question of how this can be organised. A climate law, as argued, can be a driving force, as in the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. In short, I gave the conclusions of the debate in the Scientific Committee. Not every presentation went in the same direction, but the analysis made is broadly shared by all participants. The authors came to a number of forward-looking conclusions based on the four academic seminars and the conference we organised on 27 November, in the presence of a number of members. It was concluded that an adjustment is necessary, with the need to make progress in the area of cohesion, a shared vision, operationalising ambition, objectifying decisions and, not insignificantly, transparency. It follows from this that a climate law can be an attractive idea, but only with respect for the federal structure of Belgium, which includes a number of things that we have seen in the subsequent proposal for a special climate law of a number of academics. In particular, I would like to say once again that there is a more important role for the parliaments than it seems to be in practice, but you know better than I do how this suggestion is reflected in the proposal for a special climate law. The same applies to the participation of citizens and other civil society actors in the social debate that should underpin the long-term transition. I hope I have answered the questions for a great deal. If not, I am, of course, open to answer further questions for clarification.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1075x.u3	Thank you for your insights. I would like to take a look at those Members who have the last word in principle, even though the questioners are not here right now. There are other Members who have listened with great pleasure and recorded the information. Are there any Members who would like to speak in the reply?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1075x.u4	Mr President, since this is probably the last time we receive Mr Wittoeck under this Parliament, I would like to thank him for all the work he has done and for his availability to Parliament. We met him very regularly in your commission. I am not going to prolong the debate. Mr Wittoeck has brought here a series of clarifications on the issues that are useful to us, including for the coming weeks and months. I hope that he will continue to do so, as he has always done, during the next parliamentary term, because the subject of the climate may still be important. It's just a small signal that I wanted to give him because he's a regular in our committee meetings.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1075x.u5	Mr President, I would like to respond in the same way. Thank you, Mr Witttoeck, for your efforts, your information and your availability to this committee. Your speech was very interesting. It is not because there are so few Members here that there may be disinterest. After all, there are a lot of committee meetings going on today and everyone has to be just about everywhere. The small number of people present does not, therefore, indicate any disinterest. Both personally and on behalf of my group, I thank you for all the information we have received from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1075x.u6	I wanted to take the floor again because of course I would like to join the thanks of my colleagues. Mr Wittoeck, it is between the seventh and tenth times that we see you in this committee: we no longer count! It is always a very interesting, very informative meeting that takes place in the user-friendliness and the exchange of information. Thank you for everything. Is there a full account of Mr. Wittoeck's speech and will we be able to find out on the site tomorrow or the day after? Indeed, some data were difficult to record on the flight.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1075x.u7	Colleagues, thank you all, as well as Mr Wittoeck. It has already been mentioned by a number of Members, he always comes to our question to the committee with a great deal of information, for which we are absolutely grateful to him. We have been able to deepen the subject very widely here in committee over the last few years. We have been able to take a number of initiatives which went a little further than what we have done in the past. We have examined the limits of our committee to see what can be done. Among other things, the interparliamentary resolution was a milestone for everyone. I therefore hope that the committee will continue to be able to do its work during the next parliamentary term. I suppose the theme will not disappear after 26 May 2019. Let's hope so. In this way more work can be done on the subject. No doubt we or our successors will need Mr Wittoeck once in a while.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1075x.u8	Mr President, I will not be present for the next legislative term, but I believe that the next Parliament should consider setting up a committee on climate and energy. Now there is a special committee on climate, but the debate on the climate law, for example, was held in the Committee on Health. This item is now high on the agenda. I am not well placed to make suggestions, but I believe that setting up a committee on climate and energy is a necessity.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1075x.u9	I fully agree with you, Mrs. Temmerman. Not only the Committee on Health, but also the Committee on Business is responsible for energy. With a previous Secretary of State responsible for Energy, Environment and Mobility, I followed him with his policy papers, from committee to committee, because the same people in each of those committees are working on the same subject. Each time we had to choose a different room. This does not help the work very well. I support your call to try to achieve a coherent whole. We all know where it came from. There has been a period in which the Environment was a matter of Health. Today that is something different, with its own dynamics and problems. So there is absolutely something to say for your suggestion.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1075x.u10	Mr President, I would like to thank you for the opportunity to inform you. I strongly believe in fact based policy making and science based policy making and in the role of administration in that. I would also like to thank my colleagues. After all, if I present a very large table of answers here, it is only possible because my colleagues in the service have dropped other things to do so. Finally, I would like to say that we will of course remain available to inform you, in any setting.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-04-02-54-commissie-ic1075x.u11	I shall now close the meeting. Thank you all for your presence and continued attention.
