ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u1	Madam President, this is a short question which dates back to October, given the delay in answering questions. Madam Secretary, the MAHA study was published in October 2018. As a result, I looked for data on the difference between Walloon and Flemish hospitals. The study states in particular that there are a lot of hospitals in the red. It is well known that the Walloon hospitals in particular are facing financial difficulties, more difficult than the Flemish. That is why I would have liked to have exact figures from you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u2	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, the study to which you refer, the so-called MAHA study, has been carried out by Belfius for some ten years. I don't have any details. We have read that study; it is also available on the Belfius website. Belfius may have more details than what is on the website. However, we ourselves have no more specific information than what Belfius lets us know through its website.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u3	Madam Secretary, that's a scratch. Is it not appropriate to keep such figures permanently from the government? The hospitals receive donations from the government. We know that these amounts are inadequate. However, it may be useful to identify how many hospitals live or die with the donations, where the deficits lie, and how the funds may be spent differently. Some hospitals, for example, invest in more nurses on bed, in quality or in better food. I find it somewhat strange that we do not have that information, that we do not have the public money we spend on hospitals. We also need to be able to see the deficits so that we know where to send them. I have already asked for better monitoring of what happens with the funds so that we can better graft the policies on them. So my question remains.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u4	Mrs. Van Camp, we're already doing what you're asking. We see that the small hospitals are in the red numbers. Medium-sized hospitals have fewer profit margins. Some hospitals are doing very well. It depends, among other things, on the way in which hospitals invest, on what they invest and on what policies are being pursued. There are many different factors. By putting the hospital organisation into networks, I avoid small hospitals investing in each service but not being able to follow, which does not improve the quality of the patient. Small hospitals are threatened with over-financing. This also applies to infrastructure, because there is a lot of building and building in hospitals, which is less easy to absorb for smaller hospitals than for a larger hospital. This network possibility will be the only chance for the little ones to survive, but by not doing everything.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u5	That is a valid point. Where exactly did these numbers come from?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u6	On the website you can see the scale of the hospitals. The red-digit hospitals appear to be the smallest hospitals and also the medium-sized hospitals, subject to some exceptions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u7	You're referring to the MAHA study?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u8	Yes.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u9	It is true that there are some details about spending. That is the reason why we have tabled a motion for a resolution. But you do not seem to have any data on the differences between Flemish and Walloon hospitals to inoculate the policy? That is what I am asking, that there should be a better follow-up of the data by the public authorities. You are quite right to say that the smaller hospitals have it harder than the larger ones. We fully support the fact that this is also taken into account in policy, but there are other parameters. It is a pity that we do not have these figures and that you do not have them to change the policy and to better support our hospitals.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u10	This is a session with a lot of oral questions. We are not trying to turn it into a debate. But you have the last word.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u11	I have nothing more to add to this now.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u12	Madam Minister, my question concerns a continuing problem. Almost three years ago, I asked you a first question about the recognition of specialist foot caregivers. You then referred, in 2015, to an opinion from the National Council for Paramedical Professions that you had received to regulate the recognition. You said you were negotiating. A few years later, I asked you about a state of affairs regarding the negotiations. You replied that in 2017 you had asked the Federal Council for Paramedical Occupations and the Technical Committee for the Paramedical Occupations for an additional opinion on the integration of the profession into the legislation on podologists. You also asked if the acts should be prescribed. You were expecting the advice by the summer. We are now spring 2019. What's the status? What are the opinions? Is the recognition of the specialised foot caretakers regulated or not?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u13	Mrs Van Camp, I did indeed receive the opinions concerning the podologist and the specialist foot caretaker from the Federal Council and the Technical Committee for Paramedical Professions during August 2018. That was late summer. The advisory bodies have both approved the report in their Foot Care Division. It consists of three parts. In the first part it is proposed to improve some of the uncertainties in the Royal Decree concerning the profession of podologist. The second part answers my question as to whether the legislative framework for the specialist foot caregiver can be integrated into the legal framework of the podologist. They are both positive about this, but there is one condition, namely that the two professions and their competence profiles remain clearly separate. Finally, the advisory bodies in Part Three indicate that they see a possibility for podologists and nurses to entrust a limited number of activities to the specialist foot care provider. The advice can also be consulted on the website of the FPS Public Health. We are now carrying out an analysis and, of course, we must return to the representatives of the nurses. We have taken many initiatives in the field of paramedical professions, such as the development of regulations concerning the dental hygienist, the medical laboratory technician, the ambulance worker, and the optometrist. So this has not yet been fully completed, but we are working on it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u14	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. I note that the recognition is not yet complete and that negotiations are still ongoing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u15	Madam Secretary, this is a fairly technical question. Companies selling and installing medical equipment at dentists should be obliged to join the FAGG. To this end, a contribution of 0.4% on turnover for the benefit of the dental sector should be made. Foreign companies were initially not required to contribute or register. Meanwhile, it has been published in the Belgian Official Journal that they are bound to do so. In the field, however, it appears that foreign companies are not aware of this, nor do they comply and therefore do not pay the contribution. In this way, companies in our country are disadvantaged. Is it true that foreign companies have not yet registered and have not yet paid a contribution to the FAGG? How is that possible? Is there no provision in the law to make it enforceable? Why is the contribution based on realised turnover rather than profit? Are you aware of the industry's demand for the contribution to be made on the basis of profits, as the margin between companies varies considerably? What is your opinion on this? Companies serving other sectors shall be exempt from such a contribution. Why is the obligation imposed on companies supplying pharmaceutical material and not on other companies? It is also not clear to the sector what is understood by medical devices. For example, are ceiling operation lamps, furniture, compressors and exhaust engines included? Is there a list of them?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u16	Legally, all companies active in Belgium that make medical devices available to end-users or retailers should pay a contribution to turnover. This applies to the companies that are based here, as well as to those that are located outside Belgium, but that do market medical devices here. To do so, they must register in the web portal. Those foreign companies must also pay a contribution. They are invoiced in the same way as companies established in Belgium. The law is enforceable for all contributors and provides for both the obligation of declaration and payment, in accordance with Article 13 of the Law of 11 March 2018 on the financing of the FAGG, for penalties, in accordance with Articles 40, 41 and 42 of the same law, and for a recovery option, Article 38 of the same law. Since the workload of the FAGG linked to that activity is independent of the profit margin of the medical devices sold, the turnover realised in that context constitutes a much better parameter for determining the contribution. There are no plans to change that. The contribution shall apply to all undertakings making medical devices available to retailers and end-users. Medical devices include all medical devices falling within the scope of the Royal Decree of 18 March 1999 on medical devices, the Royal Decree of 7 July 1997 on active implantable medical devices and the Royal Decree of 14 November 2001 on in vitro diagnostic medical devices. The FAGG is competent for those medical devices and for medicines. Companies can also supply other materials to a pharmacy. For this purpose, the FAGG is not the competent authority. He cannot therefore propose legislation or ask for contributions. Before offering a product on the market, distributors must verify that the product bears the required conformity marking. In order to control this, they need to know the status of the product. In case of doubt as to the status, they must ask the manufacturer of the product or his legal representative or the FAGG for confirmation. So it happens on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u17	Madam Secretary, that is clear.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u18	Madam Secretary, the problem of hoarding medication was raised through the pharmacists. When changing therapy or the patient's death, this leads to a pile of wasted medication, which is returned or in most cases ended up in the garbage can. We have already had a discussion on the possibility of re-use, but that does not seem to be possible. I have the following questions, Madam Secretary. Are you aware of the problem of hoarding medication? Do you see any solutions? What solutions do you plan? One of the solutions is to address the causes. One of the causes of hamsters is the shortage of medicines, because often the hoarding of medication is motivated by a previously experienced deficiency after which precautions are taken. Our legislative proposal and our resolution offer solutions to this. You yourself took a piste over an export ban. How's that going? Can we also go further and include the other provisions of our legislative proposal? On the premises I saw that in the re-released medications there were also packages that come from hospitals, such as Opsumit and Adcirca. Are you planning to restrict the administration of medication to the most necessary? Is there a policy around there? What's the deal with that, exactly?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u19	Mrs Van Camp, the hoarding by patients of medicines, whether prescribed or not, is a shared concern. Doctors should take into account, as far as possible, the duration of treatment of a patient when prescribing a given pack size of a medicinal product. The doctor also has the option to postpone the prescription so that the patient can pick up a pack per selected period. It is also the responsibility of the pharmacist to ensure that the patient deals rationally with the medicinal products purchased in the delivery of prescription or prescription-free medicinal products. It is indeed correct that not all medicines are always used by the patient and are therefore stacked up or returned and destroyed in cabinets. As a general practitioner, I have often asked where the patient in question kept his medicines, to clean them up together, especially in patients who were self-medication. Some people have big closets full of them. For safety reasons, it is not possible to give the medicines a second destination by having them used by other patients. The production, storage and delivery process of medicinal products has been closely monitored. This must also be done in order to ensure the safety, quality and efficiency of medicines. In the case of individual medication preparation, which, if necessary, is applied in hospitals and nursing homes, the medicines are removed from their original packaging by the pharmacist and then all medicinal products to be taken by the patient at a certain time of the day are merged into a new packaging. Usually a quantity is delivered for a period of one week or two weeks. Only the quantity of medicines really needed will be delivered. We have developed a whole approach in our country to the problem of inaccessibility. Both prescribers and deliverers are constantly kept informed of this. In anticipation of a Brexit no deal, we have already investigated which medicines threaten supply problems. We are talking about more than 30 medicines, and we have taken measures to this end. You're pleading for high fines for inaccessibility. I don't think that's productive. After all, we see that there are several reasons for not being available. Sometimes that is a change in the production process. If there were high fines, certain medicines would be withdrawn from the market, which would have the opposite effect. It is now up to the firms to report in advance unavailabilitys or deficits, so that we can anticipate them. If we were to give fines, we fear that the firms would no longer notify the inaccessibility. The administration has drawn up a proposal to adapt the legal framework to address the problem on the one hand and to implement solution-oriented procedures to minimise the negative impact on the patient on the other. The relevant text will now be submitted in the form of a legislative proposal. After all, we have had to convert all our proposals into proposals for the well-known reasons. That has slowed down the treatment somewhat. After all, the text was ready. In any case, it will be submitted to the committee. In the delivery of medicinal products to hospitals, only the most necessary dose is already delivered. This is laid down in Article 4 of the Royal Decree of 19 October 1978 laying down rules concerning the official offices and the pharmaceutical depots in the care establishments. I quote: 'Genetics may only be delivered to the needs of persons included in the care establishment for the purpose of treatment or examination and in so far as the medicinal products are completely consumed for this purpose in the establishment'. For the medication given to the patient, the rule is indeed that no more medication should be given than the medication needed for a maximum of three days of treatment. She is given away to possibly bridge a weekend or to send someone to the medication, when the patient himself does not want to leave. In fact, they only receive medication for three days and not for a longer period of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u20	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I look forward to the bill on the subject. Our bill, which has been on the table for a long time, goes much further. I urge you to look at it again. You say that with the imposition of high fines we risk manufacturers taking their medicine off the market, as an unavailability may have been caused by, for example, a factory fire. My bill is designed to find out exactly what caused it. In the event of force majeure, the fine shall not be payable. Only in the case of deliberate intervention, for example to protect the market, will a high fine be imposed. This provides a good stick behind the door for patients. If they don't get their cure, we can act on purpose. However, in cases of force majeure, the fine cannot be imposed. That's all worked out nicely in the bill. Moreover, due to the high fines, you expect firms not to register anymore. The proposal therefore states that notification will be compulsory and that controls will be strengthened. The whole idea behind it is that we properly identify the deficits so that we can better inform pharmacists and patients. It is possible to identify the cause and in case of deliberate interventions to protect the market, for example, high penalties are imposed. In other cases, it doesn't.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u21	Madam Secretary, for some time now there has been registration by box in the official sector. This allows a follow-up of drug consumption in the official. In hospitals, that's not going to be the case for a while. I have already asked this question once, and a valid argument was that registration per box is difficult for individual pre-packages, for example. However, there is now a new registration method in the pipeline, with a 2D indication which makes traceability technically possible up to the level of packaging, with the 2D indication also being printed on the individual blisters. Technically, as far as I can see, there are no more obstacles to entering registration in the hospital pharmacy, as is the case with the official. Do you have plans in that direction or not? Why is that? Why is that?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u22	Mrs Van Camp, in the care institutions covered by the law on hospitals, drug consumption has been monitored for many years per unit of drug in tablet, ampoule or other galenic forms. This is one of the tasks of the hospital pharmacist, together with the medical and pharmaceutical committee, as laid down in the Royal Decree of 4 March 1991 laying down the standards to be met by a hospital pharmacy in order to be recognised. The 2D code on the outer packaging of medicines, which you are talking about, is based on the European Falsified Medicines Directive. This legislation must be respected by all actors in the pharmaceutical industry, including by hospital pharmacists, but also by pharmacists in public officials. The aim of this regulation is to introduce a control on the introduction of counterfeit medicines into the regular distribution chain, hence the name falsified medicines. It's an end-to-end verification system that goes to the pharmacy. In addition, some hospitals are indeed working with barcodes per unit dose to scan and to allow a patient's bed verification, but this is outside the framework of the Falsified Medicines Directive and can also be achieved with individual medication preparation, for example. In particular, robots are used, as I have already seen in several hospitals. For the time being, therefore, there are no plans to require the 2D barcode per individual tablet, as this is not always technically feasible and hospitals have just invested in the other system with the robots, which also appears to work. So these are two different underlying directives: one is already regulated by a KB for a long time and the other is the European Falsified Medicines Directive, which is not directly applicable in the other system.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u23	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u24	Madam Minister, it is one of our stickhorses that we turn every euro in our health care twice, because we can no longer spend wasted euros on structures on patients or care staff, but there are great needs there. In the government, therefore, we have always worked on this. One of the yards for this is to focus as much as possible on care in the home situation. If shelter can happen at home just as well and qualityfully, why not? After all, we will save hundreds of euros at day care prices. You took the cow by the horns in that area with pilot projects. However, we get the signal from the terrain that they do not run off a lean roof, especially because the remuneration of home care is lagging behind. We ask that the home nurses take action which is now mainly applied in hospitals. However, that is not the right remuneration. That's why it's hard to ask that of our home nurses. I refer to the concrete example of the intravenous administration of antibiotics. That leaves a home nurse a little less than 31 euros. For VAC therapy, that is 12 euros. However, this requires an investment. After all, you have to visit three times a day at fixed intervals. The remuneration for the tax is therefore really not fair. The amount is simply inadequate. Madam Secretary, are you following the matter closely? Where are we on the pilot projects? Do you have any other ideas about that? If we look at the specific costs of, for example, intravenous administration of antibiotics or VAC therapy, we have to take into account that hundreds of euros will be added at the hospital for the day care price, including for the patient. Such actions could also be carried out in the home care sector if the home nurse is reimbursed in a fair manner. Do you have any plans to make that possible? Will you ensure that home care is better funded for all kinds of actions requested?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u25	Mrs Van Camp, the RIZIV has indeed launched a pilot programme for negative pressure therapy or VAC therapy in the patient's home. That programme will clarify the course of application of negative pressure therapy in home care, as well as the financial impact of the application and the way nurses, patients and their environment experience the use of negative pressure therapy at home. The Insurance Committee has selected twenty projects, allowing a total of a thousand patients to be cared for at home. They must record different parameters for each patient, such as the duration of treatment, the care provided and the costs. These data are then processed by a scientific team, in order to generate policy information and learn lessons from it. The results are expected in spring 2020. The intention is indeed to consider a structural introduction, possibly with changes in the way in which the pilot projects are carried out. The pilot projects on antibiotic administration started more than a year ago, on 1 January 2018. They run for two years and are followed by the FPS Public Health. A mid-term evaluation of the projects will be carried out during the first half of this year. There is a common misconception that any hospital stay that could be replaced by home care would immediately save hundreds of euros a day for the government. However, hospitals are only reimbursed for the responsible nursing days and the responsible, so also reimbursed rest period will not change for a patient undergoing a particular operation or treatment, whether staying longer or shorter in hospital for negative pressure therapy or intravenous antibiotic administration. For negative pressure therapy in itself, hospitals are not reimbursed. Such statements must therefore be handled with caution. In other words, if negative pressure therapy is reimbursed in the home care sector, it would be an investment rather than a saving. There are other advantages. The patient's quality of life improves, among other things because he does not always have to go to hospital. These parameters must also be taken into account when discussing whether or not to invest in them. Then, of course, we must have the results of the pilot projects. Besides, there are also projects related to home dialysis and the response of the patients concerned is only positive. However, a 24-hour technical support should be provided for this purpose. It is certain that we must invest in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u26	Thanks. I am very encouraged that you are aware of the problem of under-paid work and that you would like to see, on the basis of the results of the pilot projects, whether the remuneration for home care can be increased.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u27	Madam Secretary, we continue to reach reports of denied assistance dogs in hospitals. I've often communicated this with your cabinet. We also sat together with the association that takes up the interests of people with an assistance dog and with the High Health Council, where the shoe pinches in their advice. Each party has appreciated that meeting and has clarified much, in particular that the opinion of the Supreme Health Council is the problem. This states that assistance dogs can have access to a hospital if the hospital develops a protocol for that purpose. In practice, there are hospitals that are certainly doing well, have drawn up a protocol and therefore also have a policy on the access of assistance dogs. However, there are also hospitals that hide behind the advice of the Supreme Health Council to state that they have no protocol and therefore cannot allow access to people with an assistance dog. For the record, of course, it is not about precarious sections. When we look at the hospitals that have drawn up a protocol, this is about consultation services and the like, where people with an assistance dog also have to be often and do not pose any danger at all. This has even been substantiated in several studies. Assistance dogs are really an indispensable tool for people who use them for their independence and self-reliance. If some hospitals can work out a proper protocol, I don't understand why others can't. What will you do to ensure that all hospitals develop a protocol so that access for assistance dogs is no longer refused? I had already suggested a circular to the hospitals, in which you clarified the advice of the Supreme Health Council and stated that access for assistance dogs would be possible if they were to develop such a protocol effectively, and in which you encouraged them to draw up such a protocol.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u28	Mrs Van Camp, as you point out, consultations have taken place between the High Health Council and the organisation that defends the interests of people with an assistance dog. You were present at that meeting, as was my policy cell. The representatives of people with an assistance dog complained that hospital directors are hiding behind the advice of the High Health Council, which they interpret as a strict ban on the presence of dogs throughout the hospital. The Supreme Health Council has offered to clarify its advice. We have asked for a state of affairs. The Supreme Health Council has indeed clarified and updated the opinion. That document was posted on the website of the Supreme Health Council, where you can find it under "Advice guide dogs, update 2018." In that updated opinion, the High Health Council stresses that each hospital director, in consultation with the Committee on Hospital Hygiene, may provide for a validated written procedure for the access of guide dogs to healthcare institutions under certain conditions; the High Health Council also advises management to do so. Finally, the addendum also contains links to a number of tools that can help to launch such a procedure. The hospital directories have everything in their hands to prepare themselves and they can no longer hide behind the previous advice of the Supreme Health Council, as it was modified.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u29	Madam Minister, that is good, then I hope that after the updated opinion we will no longer receive reports of refused assistance dogs. If there is still a bottleneck, a circular letter can be useful to remind hospitals of their duty in this matter, as allowing assistance dogs in hospitals is a human right. If necessary, we will certainly come back to that in order to defend the interests of that group.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u30	In recent decades, a number of new paramedical professions have seen the light of day, such as clinical psychologist, clinical orthopedagogic, psychotherapist and clinical sexologist. The first three have a recognised professional title since 2015, so that not everyone can call themselves clinical psychologist or psychotherapist without meeting certain quality requirements. In this way, patients are protected from charlatans, we guarantee quality care and care and ensure that people who invest in training are assured of the fact that it leads to a title that is protected. If I understand correctly, this protection for clinical sexologists does not exist for the time being and there is no recognised professional title reserved for it. When discussing the WUG Act at the end of 2018, you stated that you would await the advice of the Supreme Health Council on this matter. The opinion is that a recognition of clinical sexuology as an autonomous healthcare group within healthcare is needed. As far as I understand, that advice still hadn't happened. That is why my question is how you feel about this recognition. Has it been taken care of by now? Are you prepared to comply with the recommendation of the Supreme Health Council to regulate that recognition? When would that be possible?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u31	I would like to make a slight nuance before we get the entire army of clinical psychologists and clinical orthopedagogic eyes on our roofs. They are not described as a paramedical profession. They are professions under the law on the exercise of health professions, but they are not paramedical professions. In addition, there is no mention of psychotherapist in the law of 10 July 2016, which has led to a heated discussion with Mrs Gerkens, among others. Psychotherapy is described as a treatment form. The diagnosis is made by clinical psychologists and clinical orthopedagogues or a physician with additional education. In the discussion of that law, it has indeed emerged that clinical sexuology has not yet been identified as sufficient quantity to be taken into account at that stage. There is, among other things, a great difference in the formation and background of those sexuologists. In its 2016 opinion, the Supreme Health Council says that there is an opportunity to create a separate healthcare profession of clinical sexologist. I am open to that, but we have really given priority and have had to work very hard on implementing the law of 10 July 2016. The federal council had to be installed. Commands had to be given for the recognitions of clinical psychologists and clinical orthopedagogues. The implementation of that law was my first and top priority. The analysis of the difficulties of creating a separate circuit for clinical sexologists was really not possible within this legislature. We have opted to fully implement the mental health care section and integrate the other professions into the law on the exercise of health care professions. There are other categories that ask that, it's not just the sexologists. This is the first time that we have made such a great exercise for the introduction of new healthcare professions. Everything that results from this requires, among other things, frequent implementing decisions. We've made that a priority. We have rightly done this for mental health care, which does not mean that the sexologists can also do useful work for those people.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u32	Madam Minister, I am pleased that you are aware of the problem and I understand the order of business. When the WUG Act is completed, we hope that the recognition of clinical psychologists can be arranged. We will take care of that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u33	Madam Minister, at that time it was also in the media and your services, in particular the Public Health Office, at that time indicated that they had already asked the pharmaceutical companies to produce sleeping pills, especially benzos, in smaller packages to combat addiction problems. Benzos are also used in other diagnoses, such as anxiety disorders. You made statements about diagnostics and said that the problems with taking sleeping pills are enormous. I was wondering why you were basing yourself on this, as no diagnostic data is actually collected by the government. So you can't really say how big the problem of taking sleep medication is. My question therefore remains as to why you do not actually collect diagnostic data, so that we know exactly what medical problems our population is facing and how we can better adapt our policies to them. A while ago, we organized work on big data in the Committee for Scientific Questions. You then recognised the problem of the lack of data collection. In addition, you pointed out that pilot projects would be launched, including lung cancer. Effective data, including diagnostic data, would be collected across the different lines. How's that going? Can you submit any results yet?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u34	Mrs Van Camp, the policy on benzodiazepines, in particular the use of sleeping medication in case of sleep complaints, is based on the scientific recommendations of Domus Medica, among others, which were translated into clinical guidelines for the first line and pharmacists. Targeted scientific research in different settings GPs, hospitals, residential care centers and general population.... shows that chronic use of sleep medication, especially longer than the recommended treatment period of one week, is frequent, mainly in vulnerable older population groups. The 2013 Sciensano Health Survey also provides an overview of the scale of the problem. Approximately 30% of the population indicated problems with sleep and 13% took a sedative. The use of sleep and sedatives is up to almost 40% in female over 75. That information, in combination with sales figures of 1,25 million unitary doses of sleep and sedatives, was delivered in 2016 in public pharmacies, which show that patients and caregivers are still not sufficiently aware of the risks of long-term use of sleep and sedatives or that their behaviour has not been adequately adapted. Nothing is more difficult than changing the prescribing behaviour and trying to change the patient's use of medication. We must use different instruments for this. We do the same with campaigns, guidelines, e-learning and training. We have called on the general practitioners to speak in the local quality group or in circles. Doctors who wish to explain these guidelines and provide training are paid for them. One of the instruments was also making smaller boxes of benzos available. This question was based on an opinion from the Belgian expert platform for psychopharmaceuticals, BelPEP, with the aim of protecting new users from the risks of chronic use and thus ensuring that patients are not tempted to extend the treatment duration on their own initiative, simply because there are more pills in the box. Since the Belgian prescribers' opinion on the usefulness of the availability of small packaging can also be taken into account, the FAGG conducted a survey with doctors. Eighty-three percent of the doctors who answered the question believe that the existence of small packs of less than 30 tablets would indeed be useful in reducing the risks of dependence or abuse. Sixty-one percent also respond positively to the question of whether it would be useful to withdraw the packs containing more than thirty tablets. The industry's demand therefore concerns the additional placing on the market of a pack of ten tablets of an benzo which was shown to be prescribed mainly in the event of sleep problems. With regard to 1 mg lormetazepam, I can also tell you that Sanofi has informed us that it is considering the possibility of removing the large pack of 30 tablets from the market. They are also convinced that they can contribute to the responsible use of these resources. In Belgium, we have limited diagnostic data linked to prescribing behaviour from scientific research projects such as the Flemish GP registration network INTEGO. In order to better monitor the prescription of benzodiazepines, the Action Plan also agreed to examine the extent to which Farmanet could be opened up to unpaid medicinal products such as benzodiazepines. Farmanet now, of course, only has the data on reimbursed medicines. The results are expected by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u35	Madam Minister, I am pleased to hear that you also believe that we should have more diagnostic data. You're saying this is what we're supposed to expect. We look forward to the results of this, because we urgently need them.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u36	Madam Minister, the RIZIV budget decided to release EUR 5 million for the reimbursement of dietic consultations for obese children. We have been asking this question for years and we very much welcome the fact that funds are finally being made available for it. However, we all know that there is also an important problem of obesity among adults. One in two people in our population is actually too thick. We believe that these people should be helped better. Our question is therefore whether for the future you will also plant the refund of the dietician for adults with obesity. In principle, you can create a kind of follow-up to that project for children. You could also scale up this project if it shows that we can make huge health gains. In practical terms, when will the dietician be reimbursed for obesity in children? Under what conditions? How high is the brake money for people with and without increased compensation? Which parameters are recorded to track the effect of those sessions, and who follows this up? Hopefully, in future, we will have scientific figures to show that health gains are being made. Then we can scale these projects scientifically to the adult population. A question that has long lived with us is not only the reimbursement of the dietician in the event of obesity but also the reimbursement of the psychologist. After all, we know that obesity has important psychological roots. In addition to the dietic consultation project for young people, can you also start a pilot project in which the psychologist would be reimbursed, so that we can collect data on the efficiency and health gains of a psychologist's support in the same way?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u37	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, I myself took the decision to invest 5 million a year in tackling obesity in children on the basis of findings in epidemiological research, such as food consumption surveys and other scientific studies. It has been on my wish list for a long time, but I have had to wait until I could get a small additional budget at my disposal. Nor have I had any request from your party to draw up a budget for this purpose within the framework of the budget. I've had to fight for that myself several times. Thank you very much for supporting this policy. And I am very aware of the extent of the problem of obesity in children. It is true that dietician diets are provided after referral by the general practitioner. The general practitioner succeeds the child and knows like no other when the curve changes. However, he is also notified by the CLB. It was chosen as a priority to arrange for this reimbursement for children, because if we tackle the children, we are less likely to face obesity at an adult age. We know that the approach to puberty pays the most. The children and their parents will be able to turn to a dietician. This care will also be refunded. The purpose of this amendment is to remove the financial threshold, but also the other thresholds, for a visit to a dietician. I also said that we would develop this measure in consultation with the dietists and the field of work. So there have already been several discussions in my policy cell with the associations of dietists and the field of work. It discussed the modalities and conditions for reimbursement in order to help as many as possible of the nearly 78 000 children who are now suffering from obesity. In parallel, the regulatory process is also being completed. We will be able to implement them in the coming months. By means of a permanent audit, this new measure, which is structural, will also be monitored and adjusted by the RIZIV when necessary. You are right to link with the psychological guidance within a multidisciplinary approach. An integrated approach is best. We already have experience with that. This was also clearly addressed in the discussions with the sector. I have also asked the College of Medical Directors to further examine the multidisciplinary approach in second-line care within the well-known budgetary context. For psychological assistance to children, only a refund is currently provided for in residential care. Three centres are working on this in Belgium: the Zeepreventorium in De Haan, which is the best known and largest, Clairs Vallons in Ottignies and Porignot in Biez. In the results of the succeeded children we saw a good weight reduction, but after a year a large group was back at the beginning of their recording. This proves that the follow-up and the psychological support, which the children claim to have a lot of use for themselves, should then continue to take place out of work. Hence my question to investigate further the multidisciplinary approach. With regard to primary care, I have organized the reimbursement of psychological care in this legislature. For the time being, given the budgetary constraints, we have focused on three major target groups. I do not rule out the possibility of adding children with broader problems to them in the future. I think about obesity. It is not always associated, but there are associations that may need psychological outpatient guidance. That could be a lot of trouble. Now they can't go there until they're in a residential setting. It is not obvious to them to disappear from the home environment for a year and to overthrow their entire world. An outpatient approach, close to home with the necessary knowledge, multidisciplinary, seems to me to be better. Some mutualities already pay back a number of sessions in their supplementary insurance, others do not. I think we're behind in this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u38	I fully agree that an outpatient, multi-disciplinary approach is really necessary in the long term for this problem. Obesity adds 1 billion euros every year, but it also poses a serious threat to people's well-being, which is even worse. I am glad that we are now taking another step towards dealing with it and that we are continuing along that path.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u39	Next week the resolution on obesity will be on the agenda, but I understand that you no longer support resolutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u40	We do support measures to remedy obesity. That's all that matters.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u41	Madam President, Madam Minister, when I question you about the reimbursement of insulin needles, I can already guess that you will answer that there is already a lot of progress in the care circuit for diabetic patients, including the trajectory and the convention, which is correct. In the previous question, we have already discussed the multidisciplinary approach, which certainly applies to diabetic patients, given the convention in which nurses, educators, dieticians, endocrinologists, podologists and general practitioners work together in a multidisciplinary team around the patient. As far as material is concerned, the refund of the needles is really still left behind. For diabetics, almost all of the material is refunded, except for the insulin needles. Madam Secretary, why aren't the insulin needles being refunded? Is the refund possible, for example for people who come to check every year? At the time, I asked for figures on this and there appears to be a lot of work to be done on annual monitoring, mentioning the eye fund and dental examination. We could encourage patients to have such cases examined every year if there is anything to do with that. Maybe that's why it's interesting to make that link. Have you ever studied this and are you open to it?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u42	Madam President, Mrs Van Camp, there is indeed no provision for the refund of needles for insulin pens. I am told that this has not yet been discussed because it would require a huge budget. In 2011, a sum was allocated for this purpose, but the amount granted was far too low to develop an intervention in the reimbursement for the needles, so nothing happened to it. That budget was used for a pilot project for permanent glucose monitoring. Some additional insurance does come in between the cost of needles, and patients' associations deliver them to their members at a lower price. There is currently no provision for intervention in the cost of pen needles in the context of care pathways. Nor is it currently envisaged to impose further obligations on preventive investigations in addition to existing obligations and recommendations. For example, the diabetes self-regulation agreement already provides that patients who are followed by this agreement should undergo at least the following preventive studies every year: eye fundus by an ophthalmologist, renal function, clinical monitoring of peripheral neuropathy and clinical foot study. It belongs to the mission of the endocrino diabeticologist and his team to ensure that these studies for convention patients also take place effectively. They may, however, remove it for patients who are no longer considered to be medically meaningful. Then we are talking about palliative patients. The counseling doctors of the insurance institutions may check whether these investigations have been carried out effectively. These studies are not mandatory but recommended for healthcare patients. This is also followed up in their file, which they can see for themselves. They shall also be informed thereof. It is also the task of the GP and endocrino diabeticologist to make the patient aware of the importance of these studies. This also applies to diabetic patients who do not have to be treated with insulin or other injectable products and to all the people who have been followed up by the GP in the context of the so-called transition to diabetes, which we have also included. The GP must also sensitise them to the necessary examinations.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u43	Thank you, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u44	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mrs Fonck's 27438, 27511 and 27521 are converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u45	Madam Minister, at the beginning of 2017, I already asked you a question about Morquio's syndrome, a rare accumulation disease, which is estimated to be suffering from about eight people in this country. The explanation of the disease can be found in my written question. A medicine is available. In 2014, a first application for reimbursement was submitted, but it was rejected. A new application would have been submitted recently. You replied to my question that the application submitted in March 2015 was rejected, but that a new application came in and that the procedure was still ongoing. In the meantime, some of this also appeared in the media. Madam Secretary, what is the state of play? Is the refund okay or not? What took you so long? In other countries, Vimizim is paid back, but not with us. This is important for patients because the company's posting risks ending when the deadline is that long, pending the application. Is the refund settled now or not, Madam Secretary?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u46	Indeed, in March 2015, an initial application for reimbursement of BioMarin's medicinal product was rejected after negotiations, on the advice of the additional working group. No agreement could be reached with the company which allowed the reimbursement of the medicinal product at an acceptable amount commensurate with the clinical value of the medicinal product. There was a second application to the Medicines Committee in December 2016. There was also an evaluation. The Committee gave a negative opinion on the inclusion of Vimizim on the list of recoverable specialities. The Committee's justification for this negative opinion was again based on several criteria including the therapeutic value of the speciality, the price and the remuneration base requested by the company, the analysis of the budgetary impact, the evaluation of the pharmacodynamic data and comments of the applicant. The rules at the time of the second application did not allow the firm to raise a question after a negative opinion from the CTG to initiate the procedure under Article 81. So I couldn't go into that because the regulations didn't allow it. You know I changed the rules after that. For the reasons given, I followed the advice and this medicinal product was not included in the list of pharmacovigilance medicinal products. The still very high costs demanded by the manufacturer, with a price of half a million per person per year, but for life-long treatment, were not acceptable under the circumstances. The short-term clinical value is questionable and there was no long-term data. Therefore, additional information was requested from the manufacturer. The manufacturer was also asked to lower the price, given the low clinical value, so that we might be able to review the second application. On 3 April 2018, the company submitted a third application to the CTG. This procedure was recently closed. Following negotiations between the applicant and my services, it appeared that the very high costs charged by the manufacturer for the speciality were not in line with the clinical value. The company was not prepared to take steps towards a socially acceptable price. It should also be noted that three years after the first application for registration of recoverable medicinal products, the company did not collect or deliver any new information to remove uncertainties. There's another case. Yes, we're talking about nine patients. Two of them were delivered free of charge by the company. Since 1 February they have decided to stop that free delivery. We are currently looking at how to get the company to continue Vimizim's treatment for those patients. Believe me, we're working hard on that. We have also asked them whether there is any possibility of reviewing the price and providing us with better clinical data, but they have not been taken into account.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u47	That's clear, thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u48	Madam President, we are receiving disturbing reports from this profession in the field, and in particular from the students. They are currently in training, but as far as I know, there is still no KB in which their nomenclature has been developed. As a result, they will start to work and are already fully engaged in internships, while they still do not know on the basis of which nomenclature they will carry out their profession. In the meantime, has there been any evolution in the development of that royal decision to regulate the nomenclature for dental hygienists? What are the bottlenecks that have caused this delay? When will you provide a solution for this?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u49	Madam President, a royal decision was taken on 28 March 2018. It describes the actions that dental hygienists are allowed to perform. The conversion of these transactions into a scheme for the benefit of medical care insurance is complex. The actions have been described. For that we also had to hurry, because the KB was necessary to get the internships started. The training had already started, there were already students in the third bachelor's year, but there were not yet plans for internships for that group. This would have killed them in the final sprint to their certification. In the dental nomenclature, currently only applicable to doctors, certain acts contained in the abovementioned act correspond only to some of the benefits in kind in that nomenclature. There's already a problem. We always struggle with the nomenclature, but here we have to take out those things that would be part of the separate provision for hygienists. Since this is already part of the dental provision, this would result in double funding. For the common part of the medical operation, which would of course only be carried out once in the patient's case, we would then have a double funding. That was one delay manoeuvre, if I may put it that way. In addition, in the decision of 28 March, certain transactions are not reimbursed by medical care insurance, which would require an additional budget for such benefits. In view of the complexity of the situation, this was also examined by the National Committee on Dentists and Medical Funds and the Technical Dental Council of the RIZIV. Now there's a piste. Since the first dental hygienists will obtain their diploma in June 2019, we hope to create a possibility for reimbursement on the basis of a project financed by Article 56 of the ZIV Act, and then continue to work on the nomenclature. If we go only on the nomenclature track, we will not be able to get there. Nomenclature is complicated, which I've often mentioned before. It doesn't get any easier.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u50	Madam President, Minister, we hope for a quick solution to that appeal.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u51	Mrs Van Camp, we have provided a solution so that these people can do their internship. In this way, we will now continue to work to ensure that they can get to work. After all, we need them. We need them everywhere.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u52	That's right.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u53	Debates of the European Parliament Question No 27641 and Question No 27641 Mrs Fonck's 27685 have been converted into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u54	Madam Secretary, I have asked questions about rare diseases before. In this case, it's either Nemo or seronegative neuromyelitis optics. A treatment is available under the brand name RoActemra. The medicine has already been tested, but in order to arrange the refund for the condition, the company itself must submit an application, which will then be evaluated by the CTG. Has the company applied to the services yet? If not, is the firm still planning to do so? If so, what stage is the file at exactly?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u55	Mrs Van Camp, for the reimbursement of tocilizumab, a medicine of the company Roche, no dossier has yet been submitted to the Commission for the treatment of seronegative neuromyelitis optics. The reason is likely that the indication of seronegative neuromyelitis optics has not yet been registered for that proprietary medicinal product and is therefore not included in the scientific package leaflet. Roche therefore did not submit an application, probably because it had to register the indication first. If the company applied now without registration of the indication, that application would never be approved. So it has to go step by step and first get the indication registered. Of course, we do not know about the clinical studies and whether there is enough evidence, but once Roche has registered the indication, it is likely to submit an application to the CTG shortly thereafter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u56	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u57	Madam Secretary, my question is about Antabuse. Their unavailability was topical a while ago. My question dates back to November. Antabuse is used for people who want to stop drinking radically. What affects me is that a survey shows that this unavailability was not only a problem for users but also for their partners, family members. Sometimes whole families get into trouble because one can no longer be reassured about the person who is addicted and tries to do something about it with that pill. My question was originally from when Antabuse would be available again. I do not know the current state of affairs, but I am sure you will explain this to me. I wonder if there are any measures to prevent this kind of problem in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u58	Madam President, Mrs Jiroflée, this is the second time that this is not available. Mrs Van Camp mentioned it earlier. That is indeed a complex problem. There are stock breaches, manufacturing problems, quality problems and raw materials unavailable. There is also the phenomenon of quota, where firms deliberately supply their stock to wholesalers in order to prevent too many medicines destined for the Belgian market from disappearing via export. We have been working on a comprehensive package of solutions for some time now. These are solutions in the event of unavailability and measures to prevent unavailability. A working group is responsible for this. In this working group are the FAGG, the RIZIV, the pharmacists, the hospital pharmacists, the doctors, the sickness funds, the pharmaceutical companies and the distributors. That is a large group that is working together to find solutions for these different mechanisms. One of the measures taken is the development of a decision-making tree. This helps to determine the severity of the unavailability and to find possible solutions to minimise the negative impact on the patient. In addition, the establishment of a platform will facilitate the exchange of information on inaccessibility between manufacturers, wholesalers, pharmacists and the government. Its roll-out is planned for after the summer. In order to address the issue of quotas, a draft law has already been drawn up which has been submitted to the European Commission for its opinion. Since a great deal of regulation is European, we must submit it there first. As regards Antabuse, the only medicine based on disulfiram on the Belgian market, a majestic preparation can also be made as the raw material is available. A majestic preparation may offer a solution for the patients and their families. Another possible solution is the import of foreign packaging, but for Antabuse it is a manufacturing problem. There are therefore also stock breaches abroad. We cannot introduce it because there is also a very limited availability or a stock breach there. I suggest you go to the doctor first. Disulfiram can be prepared magic beam and can therefore be prescribed by the doctor. There are not many alternative treatments in the case of disulfiram. We have contacted the company and it has assured us that the medicine would return to the market on 1 April, so also in Belgium. Meanwhile, the only lifesaver is the majestic preparation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u59	Madam President, Minister, I am pleased that it will be available again on 1 April. Of course, a lot of people have found their way to their doctors in the meantime. However, these stock breaches and quotas remain a problem. I hope that the working group will continue to work and succeed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u60	Debates of the European Parliament 27863 and No. 28302) by Mr Blanchart and others: Mrs Fonck's 28704 were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u61	Madam President, should I ask my three questions together? That's gonna be a little long.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u62	Yes, as you wish. But it's usually because it's about the same subject. Madam Secretary has one answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u63	All right! Minister, most hospitals with a neonatology unit accommodate premature infants who require intensive care in an open space structure, i.e. babies do not have a room but are installed next to each other, in the same space. This organization does not always allow parents to stay as much as they wish with their child. It also does not allow visits by the close family, sometimes not even those of the brothers and sisters. Studies have shown, however, that the recovery of the child is faster when parents are integrated into development care with, ultimately, less long and therefore less costly hospitalization. For example, at Erasmus Hospital in Brussels, nurses and doctors were sensitized and trained in this direction and a family-centered care was set up. Mother-baby rooms, with a maximum of three babies per room, allow the family to be included in the healing process, with very good results at the key. Minister, are you aware of these studies, which tend to show that the inclusion of parents in the developmental care of premature babies is beneficial to them? How many hospitals have decided to take structural measures in this direction? Do you support the process? Is the medical profession aware of this inclusion process in order to facilitate healing? Could any initiatives be considered to help hospitals that would like to create the type of structure as developed within the Erasmus Hospital? My second question concerns the psychological supervision of the parents of premature children. Currently, a psychologist may be asked on an ad hoc basis by the neonatology department to assist the parents, depending on his or her time schedule in his or her service. In general, however, neonatology services do not have a full-time psychologist. The medical and associative world is calling for this to change. Do you hear their call to that effect? Do you think that the psychological supervision of parents of premature children could be improved and financially supported by social security? What guidance is currently in place to assist the persons concerned? My last question concerns the skin-to-skin technique with the parents of premature infants. Have physicians been sensitized to the development of this type of personalized and alternative care such as skin to skin? What measures are being taken to promote reflection and awareness? Studies prove the benefits of this technique. Therefore, why not consider taking care of the baby carrier adapted by social security?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u64	Mrs. Ben Hamou, yes, many scientific studies show that the presence of parents with their premature newborns in neonatal units improves the development of the newborn, as well as the experience and well-being of the parents. Having a premature child is still a shock. The concerns surrounding birth are greater than the joy of having a baby. Parents' participation in care, the long-term skin-to-skin wearing of these premature babies and breastfeeding is the ideal standard of care in neonatology. It deserves maximum implementation. The most scientifically validated development care training programs are NIDCAP (Neonatal Individualized Development Mental Care) or Kangourou Mother Care. Their benefits have been demonstrated by decreasing length of stay and by improving the development of children in the short and medium term as well as the parent-baby relationship. A development care coordination unit has been established within the Public Health FPS. Its objective is to promote to health care providers – doctors, midwives and nurses – programmes aimed at the implementation of development care as well as the continued presence of parents in neonatology units. The unit organizes NIDCAP-type training for health care providers, lectures on the subject and visits to neonatology units. In Belgium, 38 neonatal units have completed this training or are in the process of training in development care. The requirement for a part-time clinician psychologist for 15 beds of intensive neonatology care, in charge of parental support, is part of the organizational accreditation standards of intensive neonatal services. The role of the psychologist is crucial both for support to parents in the antenatal period, during hospitalization, and after discharge upon return home, as well as for support to caregivers. This is a half-time with 15 beds of intensive neonatology care.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u65	Minister, you say that skin-to-skin practice must be implemented to the maximum extent possible. But this also has a cost to parents, who must be able to afford to buy this special sheet. My question was whether you were planning a refund for parents who wanted to buy one.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u66	No, it's not planned!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u67	I have heard that the coordination cell exists at the FPS level, but does it also have to tell hospitals to move towards open spaces? I visited Erasmus Hospital and saw that they were at the cutting edge, but the same is not true in all hospitals. What do you think? Can this cell, not exert pressure, but ask hospitals to foresee this open space?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u68	This is part of the hospital's infrastructure. We have no influence on this matter. But some services adapt to their potential. From time to time, they are renewed. We're not at the time of the incubators anymore, as I've seen in foreign countries. It's all different. There is always a heated space in which small patients can benefit from skin-to-skin technique. I visited neonatology services and they evolved a lot, compared to a certain period. For the refund, I don't know. Is this sheet very expensive?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u69	It costs between 50 and 70 euros.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u70	I'll check it out, but it's not planned.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u71	My questions are a little late, it would probably have been more appropriate to ask them at the beginning of your term, since there are only a few months left by the end of this Parliament. However, this will always be useful in the future. Even if you know that you cannot ask all hospitals to create such structures, is it possible to invite them to set up such initiatives?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u72	I note that hospitals have a lot to do to update themselves, especially with regard to some very dynamic services for very young patients, such as neonatology. There are also "labels", like moeder-kind-hospitaal, to which they wish to remain adapted in maternity, neonatology, and others.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u73	And for the psychological supervision, you were saying there was a half time for 15 beds?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u74	That is what is planned, particularly at the budgetary level. Intensive neonatology benefits involve very large amounts to be reimbursed. Funds are earmarked for this purpose.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u75	Thank you for this exchange and for your answers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u76	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Fonck's 27887 question will be converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u77	This is a short technical question. It appears that the document for pharmacists has been drawn up in English and only in it. Can a Dutch version be provided for our Flemish pharmacists? What about the possibility for our pharmacists to fill that out in Dutch in Flanders? To clarify, it is about the end user access request form that must be submitted by our pharmacists to the Belgian Medicines Verification Organisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u78	The Belgian Medicines Verification Organisation was set up by the professional associations concerned and is therefore a private initiative. So it's not our service. This has been done within the framework of the European Directive and Regulation on counterfeit medicinal products. This legislation imposes a number of obligations to combat counterfeit medicinal products. It puts its implementation in the hands of the sector, the so-called stakeholder model, where the government is only responsible for the supervision of this implementation. It is delegated to the stakeholders themselves to do so. Whether or not stakeholders should follow the provisions of the Laws of 18 July 1966 on the use of languages in administrative matters is a question that should be addressed to the Standing Committee on Language Monitoring, which is responsible for this. Apart from that, I invite the BMVO to conduct its communication in Dutch and French, in order to avoid misfiling the forms.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u79	We'll keep following that up.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u80	Madam Minister, it is already the sixth question in the series of questions on the subject. My first question dates back to 2016. Each time the answer was that there was a delay in the procedure. Now we are two and a half years after the most recent state of affairs on the dossier. In the meantime, is there any clarity about the refund procedure for Natulan? Is the reimbursement for the patients a fact?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u81	Ms Van Camp, Natulan has been reimbursed in Belgium since 1 August 2017 under the specific conditions set out in Chapter IVbis of the list of pharmacovigilance products that can be reimbursed. This means that a separate application form should be used for this purpose. That Chapter IVa deals with medicinal products for which there is no authorisation to place them on the market in Belgium and which must therefore be imported from abroad by the pharmacist. 100 % reimbursement was provided for, in accordance with the rules of reimbursement for category A medicinal products.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u82	Madam Secretary, does that apply to all indications, particularly a particular type of carcinoma? The reimbursement of the medicine would not have been arranged.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u83	Ma'am, what kind of carcinoma is this about? You mail me the data best, because the non-refund may also be due to the fact that the indication is not registered. That's like the other drug. I refer to the principle of first registration.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u84	Madam Secretary, cheap and generic medicines are well established in our country. In 2017, eight out of ten Belgians received a generic medicine and 99.9 % of doctors prescribed generic medicines. There is a generic alternative for 70% of the medicines, which is much cheaper for health insurance. In fact, generic medicines account for only 44% of expenditure. However, there is certainly room for improvement, with savings for health insurance and for the patient. Health insurance could save EUR 62 million if doctors consistently prescribed the cheapest medicine. Patients should therefore pay EUR 47 million less. If a medicinal product were delivered from the basket of cheapest medicines in 2017, the health insurance would have saved €17 million and the patient €31 million. These figures were recently published by the Socialist Mutualities. My question dates back to December 4th. General practitioners do not meet the legal threshold of cheap prescription. It was set at 60%, while Belgian doctors reached 54.8% on average. A quarter of the general practitioners are among the best pupils and reach 61 %, but the 25 percent worst students among the doctors only put a cheap medicine on half of the regulations. Madam Secretary, are you planning actions to boost those figures? Do you want, in any way, to advise the general practitioners to choose more for a generic medicine? How do you view the introduction of an obligation on the pharmacist to deliver the cheapest medicine for any new treatment, if that is available? Can we also allow pharmacists to propose to the patient a cheaper alternative to ongoing treatment? What do you think of an obligation to propose in the software packages of the general practitioners as the first option to prescribe dust name, followed by the cheapest medicines?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u85	Mrs Jiroflée, in your possible solution, you are assuming an ideal world: I hope that the pharmacist will present itself with the cheapest medicine, but I see other things. Nevertheless, during this legislature, I took various measures to stimulate cheap medicines. In 2017, the quota for low-cost medicines for general practitioners was increased from 50% to 60%. In addition, in 2018 I increased the quotas for cheap medicines for doctors-specialists, where the increase was, of course, dependent on the specific discipline. The adjustment of quotas has taken place in line with the possibilities in pharmaceutical supply and with the latest developments in cheap prescription to further encourage doctors to use cheap medicines. Doctors also receive regular feedback on their prescriber profile to adjust their prescriber behaviour and comply with quotas. There we see a great evolution. Moreover, I have also adapted the definition of a cheap medicine in this legislature. In the past, a medicine was given the title of cheap medicine only if the price reductions were respected. I have restricted the price differences within cheap medicines. Initially, the fork was limited to 20 %. The cheapest medicines were therefore in the bottom drawer of 20%. I have also limited the reimbursement of medicines that have been patented for two years to the cheapest medicines. The aim is therefore to have them prescribed more by the doctors, otherwise the brake charge will increase. During the last budgetary conclave, I also decided to apply the ceiling price system for medicinal products delivered in the hospital environment and also to introduce quotas for cheap medicines for hospitals. I reduced the fork of 20 % to 10 %. As a result, there has also been a downward spiral in prices. None of this goes unpunished in the negotiations with the pharmaceutical industry. I just want to tell you that a lot has been said and written about it. Those are the things I did in this legislature. Otherwise, I'm counting on the doctors. I impose these quotas on them, but I urge them to adapt their prescription behaviour to these new rules. Substitution by the pharmacist does not seem to me to be the best way forward. It is important that the pharmacist strictly follows the doctor's prescription for the patient's well-being. It is also of the utmost importance that the physician is aware of any change in treatment. We all know the story of the other galenic, but also of allergies to certain fillers such as lactose, which can pose dangers to the patient. Moreover, substitution could also have an impact on the patient's compliance and compliance, which in turn leads to additional costs for Belgian health insurance. Of certain target groups such as older people, it is also known that they do not remember the name of the medicine, but the shape or color of it. For example, they could have unwanted effects with multiple ingestion of the same drug. For example, people are used to taking a certain drug. Then they get a new box and take this medicine on top of the old one. A double intake of a blood pressure lowering agent may present a risk of overdose. This is being followed very closely. After all, we do not want to produce any effects that could pose new dangers to the patient. In an ideal world, substitution should always be about cheaper medicines. There's still work to be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u86	Madam President, Minister, we certainly recognise that the situation is gradually evolving positively and that a number of measures have been taken. Let's get that straight. I also understand that there are questions about substitution by the pharmacist. I think I understand that when you talk about that ideal world. I just want to say again that I think the doctor remains the key figure. As far as we are concerned, a little more pressure should be applied.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u87	Debates of the European Parliament 28011 by Mr Blanchart was postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u88	Madam President, I propose that I delete the question on the shortage of Atrovent. This is indeed again about those deficits that we have actually discussed twice...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u89	There's actually no shortage of Atrovent, it's true there was a quota. It is actually an interesting question for which we have sought a solution because there is a delivery period of up to three days. That's what we were gonna do. A bill has been drawn up which imposes a delivery obligation on the wholesalers for the firms, with a delivery period of up to three days. They can't just postpone it like that. Now the demand comes in and they can decide when they will deliver; that gives them the opportunity to quota. One of the future measures against quotaing is that a short delivery period is imposed. There are also other measures, but they have been with the European Commission for some time now. When it comes to medicines, we need an opinion from the European Commission. The European Commission is considering whether the introduction of that system would hinder the free movement or export of goods. We do not think that is the case. These measures are likely to pass the test. However, the European Commission is not that fast. However, the firm has confirmed to us that there is no shortage. The pharmacists and wholesalers can order the necessary doses directly from the company. It's scary for patients when they don't have the cure. It's supposed to open the trachea. Patients sometimes panic. I will also give you the answer, because there is more information in it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u90	Madam Secretary, thank you for the answer. In any case, I am very pleased with the measure against quotas. Do you have any idea of the timing of the European Commission? Should they advise within a given period of time?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u91	That's a good question. I don't think they've started it yet. We have examined this ourselves, but we must abide by the rules. The sooner the better for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u92	Madam President, Minister, this question concerns the patent of one of the most lucrative medicines in the world, as it is called. That patent expired in October. Humira is a medicine used, among other things, against rheumatism. We, too, are among the absolute top spenders of this resource. In 2016, this was an expenditure of more than 130 million euros. Today, one injection costs between 500 euros and 600 euros, depending on the dosage. We also know that this price will fall sharply by 1 January by the Biocliff, which will cost the same injection about EUR 350 if I have been informed correctly. I have looked at tables with the old and new prices, but I will spare you those details, as this also depends on the dosage and the pack sizes. According to some sources, the price in the Netherlands would fall much more, i.e. not by 30%, but by 80 to 85%. The reason is not that other pharmaceutical products are now allowed to make and sell the product, but that AbbVie has announced a substantial drop in prices, well below the price level of the upcoming biosimilars. There is an average price of 100 euros per injection and the Netherlands is counting on a saving of 184 million euros. Madam Secretary, how much did we spend in 2017 for adalimumab, outpatient and in hospitals? What kind of savings does the Biocliff really make? How much do you estimate the expenditure, and therefore the savings, for 2019? Do you know of any additional price reductions in line with the Dutch coverage? Have you received any signals about that? In our Belgian system, who can take the initiative to reduce the price further than legally determined, except, of course, the manufacturer: the Committee on Medicinal Products or yourself?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u93	Mrs Jiroflée, we have also heard this through the Dutch media. We asked for confirmation from the Dutch administrative services, but they could not give it. So they didn't confirm that. The figures from Farmanet and DocPh show that in 2017 EUR 138 447 210 was spent on proprietary medicinal products with the active substance adalimumab. Of course, for 2017 it was the price of the original medicinal product. The share of the public officials was 138 million. In the hospital pharmacy, 267 000 euros were involved. Therefore, the projected savings due to the fall in prices of 31.15 % for 2019 amount to around 44.4 million euros. A voluntary price reduction was also introduced for a number of Humira packs. That was voluntary, but with a little compulsion. This leads to an additional saving estimated at EUR 122 000. This brings us to about EUR 44.5 million. A volume cliff was also worked out. This is a further deepening of the fall in prices of medicines outside patent if these are on the market for 15 years. This will also have an impact on the medicinal products containing the substance adalimumab and thus also on the biosimilary medicinal products. It concerns an additional drop in prices of net less than 10%. That is in a package that will now be dealt with in the form of a legislative proposal in Parliament. This should normally have been dealt with by the budget, but it could not have been done. We know that neither of us has played a major role in this. Any price reductions may be proposed by the holding on a voluntary basis. This often has to do with competitiveness, with the dynamics on the market, so that they propose to remain attractive. You also know that there are cheap biosimilary medicines available. We have worked very hard on these biosimilary medicines. I looked at the figures today with regard to the hospitals and the regulations of the doctors outpatiently. There's been a dynamic through those incentives for the biosimilary drugs. The CTG can also carry out a review based on an active substance, coupled with possible price reductions. That happens now and then for larger groups. This is a separate procedure which is discussed in the CTG. I can also initiate a review of the price of a proprietary medicinal product. What was in the various budgetary measures was already upholstered. For the companies it is a sensitive matter that we have lowered prices so much and that we have let them make the switch to the biosimilary market. It's good for the patient and the hospital. They were allowed to reinvest 90% of that price decrease in other medications. There was a huge financial incentive for the hospitals and it worked.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u94	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I know you worked on these biosimilars. In any case, we will continue to follow it up and look forward to the proposal that is still before us.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u95	I have one short question, Madam Secretary. I'll make that quick.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u96	I'm sorry, but I have an infernal agenda, given my three skills.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u97	Madam Secretary, the NIPT test is back in the media. When the first figures became known, it appeared that no fewer children with Down syndrome would have been born, while this test had been introduced some time ago. We have had an exchange of views on this matter on several occasions, and you confirmed that we must also frame everything related to technological progress in broader ethical debates. Is it not time to make a carried-out evaluation on this ethical issue, especially with regard to children with Down, not only medically but also ethically and psychosocially? Can you take the lead in organising a round table on this issue? In the meantime, I have been informed from the sector that they are already working on it. I've advised them to definitely invite you. However, I think you can take the lead yourself.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u98	That's what I did. However, no figures are available yet. That's what I said back then. That was fake news. Those figures related to the period in which there was no refund. A refund of a NIPT test takes place at the beginning of a pregnancy. Then that child must still be born. One does not give birth to his child on the day of the NIPT test, but seven months later. That was totally out of control. I don't understand why some people don't think about the duration of a pregnancy. The figures were misinterpreted. The test has not been generally repaid for a sufficiently long time to have figures. The figures given concerned months in which the test had not yet been repaid. The additional demand to re-screw the test was completely torn off the pot. The test will be refunded for everyone and even more refunded for people with little financial capacity, precisely in order to be able to give the correct information to the couple. This information has an accuracy of 99,8 % instead of 50 %. This could save a lot of trouble. The decision to do a test and what they do when they know the results is entirely up to date. There must indeed be an ethical debate that goes beyond the NIPT test, but which also includes genetic testing and genome analysis. I asked the King Baudouin Foundation to set up a civilian lab on that subject, but really about genetic analysis. That was done, with support from Sciensano. It was about three full weekends, in which more than 30 citizens participated. It was very well-led. The participants made a number of recommendations. You might be able to find them. I certainly got them handed over. I also went there on Sunday 2 December 2018 and went into dialogue with them. That wasn't a round table, because there was no table. However, we were in a great circle. The intention was to engage in dialogue with these citizens on genetics, in particular on the ethical aspects. They then made a number of recommendations. In the coming months, they will distil a final report on the subject. They will continue to deal with the issue in greater depth. That will be a good source of information to develop a round table in Parliament. I pay a great deal of attention to all the ethical aspects that are being addressed. After all, things are coming towards us. We are not sufficiently armed against this. We do not have enough people to guide this. It was interesting to have our scientific institution Sciensano and certainly the King Baudouin Foundation participate in the analysis.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u99	Madam Secretary, I will read that report with interest, but I have missed it so far, or is the final report not yet available?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u100	The recommendations were then made to me and they are now going to work to draw up the final report.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-13-54-commissie-ic1037x.u101	That's perfect. I will also report this to the sector working in the field with children with disabilities, so that the sector can inform itself and cooperate with the King Baudouin Foundation and Sciensano. Thank you.
