ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u1	Mr Minister, the Berlare fire station, which is in the East zone, is currently facing the following problem. Half of the six drivers of the water accident vehicles have passed the age of 60 years. In the relatively short term, we will have problems in providing the quickest adequate assistance. The driving times will be greatly increased because these three people will be retired. The problem is that the people who are ready to fill in these functions cannot go to the fire department school PAULO or can only take training or exams late. Despite the repeated pressure from several areas at the fire school, the school is unable to increase training capacity and make training more accessible for people who perform a job during the day. I have the following questions. Are you aware of the capacity problems with PAULO and its consequences for different fire zones? On several occasions it was stated that the six East Flemish fire zones will be forced to shop at other schools, but the covenant with PAULO does not always allow that. Can we agree to an adjustment? Can the basic training no longer be spread according to the size of the zones? Can there not be agreements between the zones so that PAULO more meets the needs of the different zones?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u2	Mr Gabriels, there is indeed a covenant between PAULO and the six East Flemish relief zones. However, neither the regulations nor the covenant provide for the staff of the East Flemish relief zones to be sent to the fire school PAULO for training. It's perfectly possible that they're taking their training at another fire school. Moreover, there is no official key for training at a fire school. It is certainly useful that the fire school and the zones make good agreements between themselves on the organisation of training courses. This can be done at the provincial training council, which has the task, among other things, of identifying the training needs of the assisted areas and ensuring coordination of the training courses provided within the province. I can follow you for a bit. It would be a good thing to attend a provincial school or academy. I cannot get rid of the impression that there is some training tourism between certain academies. This sometimes has to do with the geographical location of a number of zones, but I think that the link with the provincial training centres is appropriate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u3	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. I understand that they can go to another school perfectly, but I continue to argue that better arrangements should be made and that training in the own fire school should be better adapted to the needs of the different zones.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u4	Minister, you also know that the previous government decided in 2015 to keep the nuclear power stations Objective 1 and Objective 2 open for 10 years longer. Three years earlier, the Di Rupo government extended the life span of the Tihange 1 central to 2025. All these lifetime extensions were subject to a lot of conditions and actions by the FANC to ensure safety. The cost for Tihange 1 was estimated at 700 million and for Objectives 1 and 2 at around 600 million. The FANC's initial document stated that these actions had to be carried out before the nuclear power plants were re-launched, i.e. before the lifetime extension. In the end, the FANC agreed that many security aspects had to be implemented only by the end of 2019. That's almost five years after the lifetime extension came into effect. Now it appears that a large proportion of these investments have not yet taken place. We're at the beginning of 2019, so we have a few months left. At least that is evident from the article in De Standaard. In it, the top man of ENGIE Electrabel, Philippe Van Troeye, admits that 40% of the investments imposed by the FANC still have to be made. To carry out these works, these reactors will have to be shut down for a long time. Moreover, these reactors will in any case have to be completely shut down if these improvement actions have not been implemented by the end of 2019. They will then no longer meet the conditions for the lifetime extension imposed by the FANC. Hence my questions. What improvement actions were effectively implemented at the time of the adoption of Tihange 1, Objective 1 and Objective 2 lifetime extensions? What improvement measures have not yet been implemented when Tihange 1, Objective 1 and Objective 2 were approved? What, therefore, did not meet the deadline and are already in time? Of course, one cannot do everything in the last three months. Since only 40 % has been executed at the moment, there is no other way than that there is a large part of it over time. What actions are those? Will the FANC be careful to ensure that the actions imposed are implemented in good time? What measures does the FANC provide for if the timing of the required improvement actions for Tihange 1, Objective 1 and Objective 2 is not met in good time? Will this result in the logical closure of the plants concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the long-term operation, the Long Term Operation (LTO), of the Tihange 1 nuclear reactors, Objective 1 and Objective 2, the operator Electrabel is obliged to implement the LTO Action Plan approved by the FANC before the end of 2019, as amended by the Royal Decree of 27 September 2015. The FANC will not allow any rebooting of these reactors in 2020, in accordance with the licence, until the full action plan has been implemented. The roll-out of the LTO action plan for Tihange 1 and Objectives 1 and 2 is closely monitored by the FANC and its branch Bel V. Those LTO action plans include four main shutters both for Objectives 1 and 2 and for Tihange 1, in particular: first, the pre-conditions for long-term exploitation; second, the management of ageing; third, the re-evaluation and improvement of the design; fourth, the management of skills, knowledge and behaviour. Electrabel is currently implementing those action plans in accordance with the principles adopted by the FANC in 2015. This means that all action points from the two strands on the pre-conditions for long-term exploitation and management of skills, knowledge and behaviour were already implemented in 2015, which corresponds to the start of the long-term exploitation of Tihange 1 and Objectives 1 and 2. For Tihange 1, the action points from the third section, the management of ageing, were carried out while the reactor stopped for maintenance in 2014, 2015 and 2016. Today, only the final part of the action plan, the re-evaluation and improvement of the design of Tihange 1 is being implemented. Most of these action points have already been implemented. In 2019 only the construction of the SUR Étendu building, the second level of safety, has to be completed and connected to the reactor. The new main building is an important addition to the reactor's protection against external events. For Objective 1 and Objective 2, I refer to the FANC document Long Term Operation Objective 1 & Target 2, the Final Evaluation Action Plan, of 27 August 2015, which is publicly available on the FANC website. The focus of the implementation of the third and fourth sections, the management of ageing, the re-evaluation and improvement of the design, lies in two major revisions or closures in 2018 and 2019. With regard to the management of ageing, it concerns, inter alia, the modification and replacement of a number of process and instrumentation chains, electrical power supply and switches. As far as the improvement of the design is concerned, this includes a number of actions aimed at renewing fire barriers and fire-extinguishing systems. The FANC and Bel V continue to monitor closely the implementation of the Action Plan through the regular working meetings and after each shutdown of the reactors. It focuses on overall progress, possible delays and planned changes in the implementation of the actions. The operator has asked for a limited number of actions to change the execution time, inter alia due to delays in the delivery of the necessary components. The FANC accepted this as it has no impact on the safety of nuclear installations. Therefore, the operator has proposed to complete the final action points of the LTO Action Plan during the next shutdowns, which will start in 2019, of Tihange 1, Objectives 1 and 2. By the end of January 2019, the operator informed the FANC that, on the basis of the latest planning information, the end date of these closures may be in spring 2020. As already mentioned at the beginning, the FANC will not give the green light after the following shutdowns prior to the restart of Tihange 1, Objectives 1 and 2, as long as this action plan was not fully implemented during these last revisions. So much for my answer to all your questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u6	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I understand very clearly that the operator said that the last stops will take place in the spring of 2020. The FANC is just talking about 1 January 2020. If the works are not carried out by then, the reactors cannot be started. Is this true?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u7	Restart will not take place in the course of 2020. Let me repeat the answer: 'The FANC will not allow any rebooting of reactors by 2020, in accordance with the licence, until the full action plan has been implemented'.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u8	Are we talking about 2020 as a whole?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u9	Mrs. Temmerman, I don't know. 2020 will start on 1 January and end on 31 December. I suppose they mean in the course of the year. This is the information I can give you right now.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u10	All I can say is that the operator always manages to convince the FANC to extend the implementation deadlines, when it was originally said that the date should be very strict and that, if that date were not reached, the matter would be closed down. In any case, I am pleased that you can confirm that things are being closely monitored. I hope the FANC does. I am very curious to see what will happen on 1 January 2020. If the top man himself says that only 40% has been carried out, it is difficult to imagine that in those last months the remaining 60% will be carried out in the three plants.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u11	Question No 28545 by Mrs Fernandez Fernandez is transformed into a written question. Joined Questions No 28590 by Mrs Lambrecht and No 28651 by Mrs De Wit are postponed. Question No 28593 by Mrs Ben Hamou is postponed. Question No 28739 by Mrs Waterschoot was answered in committee on 13 February. Questions Nos 28794, 28795, 28796 and 28797 by Mrs Hamou were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u12	Mr President, Minister, last year I asked your predecessor about the situation in call centres 101. At the time, the alarm bell had been fired in several of them. A budget had then been released, allowing 37 new employees to be hired. While it was of course a good thing, the workers in these centres felt that this was not enough. By way of example, just for the Hainaut where I am elected, there were, according to them, about ten people needed to carry out the missions properly. Minister, may I ask you to take stock of this situation? To date, have all planned commitments been fulfilled and are all employees operational? According to your information, are some call centres still understaffed? Are new commitments planned? If so, which centres would they be concerned?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u13	Mr President, Mr Flahaux, in total, the FTE staff of all the 101 centres is 361 call-takers. The emergency power plant 112 is 311 call-takers. Currently, these executives are about 80 per cent filled in. There are, of course, differences between the centres, some of which face a greater shortage of staff than others. There are several reasons for this shortage, including the fact that call-takers, like all other employees, can benefit from a number of benefits including reduced benefits, work at 4/5 or half-time, career interruption, parental leave, etc. If, within the same plant, a number of call-takers make use of these benefits, the total number of staff members who can be deployed rapidly declines. In addition, in some provinces, despite the publicity that the call-taker profession has already received thanks, among other things, to the broadcasts of the programme "Emergency call" and the recruitment campaigns spread over several years, it is difficult to find enough candidates to fill the vacancies quickly. It should also be borne in mind that the job of call taker is not the most accessible. You must first take a basic training course that lasts about three months. Then, a few more weeks will pass before you become a full call-taker, that is to say, autonomous and no longer need to call on experienced colleagues. In other words, a call-taker candidate is therefore not available overnight. However, we will continue to invest in the capacity of our 101 centres and 112 emergency power plants. We hire new candidates each year; this will still be the case in 2019. At the same time, we are constantly striving to find solutions to reduce call-takers' workload.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u14	Minister, thank you. I hear the fighter's journey, if I dare to say so, to become a call-taker, as well as the possibilities of scheduling once these people are in place. I support these initiatives, which are commendable and desirable, in particular to enable parents to take care of their children. It is therefore necessary to schedule possible retirements or other jobs based on these arrangements. This will make it possible to be as operational as possible. On the other hand, you know how much I appreciate you, Minister. It is true that I would have appreciated information on the situation of the various call centres. I do not know if it is possible to send it to us.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u15	Certainly. We'll take care of it. Mr President, perhaps the easiest way is for you to send me Mr Flahaux's supplementary question as soon as possible through the secretariat on the state of affairs in the various centres in terms of staff and the filling of frames.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u16	Or I'll introduce a new question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u17	It's the way you want it.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u18	I will then introduce a written question tomorrow. Thus, it will not have to go through the Commission's channel.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u19	Mr. Chairman, I'm definitely going around all the phone numbers.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u20	Of course, there are also elections approaching.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u21	Minister, I don't know if I'll be a candidate.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u22	I insist.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u23	I'd like to be on your list, if you want me to. Minister, a few months ago, the Interior FPS indicated that it was appropriate to consider integrating the photo and video option into the 112 mobile app. This would allow a person in difficulty to film the action or location and transmit the images directly to the emergency services. Capturing the images would help to better understand the situation and its stakes. However, this would raise questions in terms of privacy. Minister, what is the situation to date? Is the discussion still ongoing within the FPS? According to your information, can this project be implemented, and if so, within what time frame and for what budget? Finally, what issues, including privacy issues, still need to be addressed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u24	Mr President, Mr Flahaux, the study to which you refer is still under way. It is not just a question of defining technical standards but also of determining a clear procedure for operators to make optimal use of these instruments. Inciting citizens to take photos and/or videos of each accident to send them to emergency stations can bring some benefits, but other elements must also be taken into consideration. Operators do not always have and will not always have time to analyse this additional information in detail in order to seek any additional useful information for the dispatch of the rescue. Secondly, additional budgets will also have to be found to develop the technical platform, which should not only allow the collection of photos and videos, but also, where appropriate, allow them to be sent to the rescue services called in. Case to follow.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u25	Minister, thank you. Once again, I broadly agree with you. I would prefer, moreover, in these kinds of cases which have advantages but which are delicate, that a complete reflection be carried out before starting, at the risk of "cassing", if I may say so. But it was important for me to know that you were staying on the case, which I had no doubt about.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u26	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Laaouej has converted 28814 into a written question. Debates of the European Parliament Question No 288, by Mr Vanden Burre 28882 by Mrs Pas. Questions Nos 28886, 28887, 28888 and 28889 by Mr Pivin are postponed. Debates of the European Parliament Mr Van Hees' 28907 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u27	Minister, the Governor of West Flanders, Carl Decaluwé, is in favour of more private surveillance during events, for example, because the police forces have been over-questioned and the influx of new policemen and women is stalling. There is a need for a new core task plan and a reform of training and recruitment. The so-called Jambon Act allows private security firms to be involved in security missions, including at events, and thus relieves police forces so that they can focus more on their core tasks. The provincial governor took as an example the coastal season: "Last year six to seven million day tourists came to the coast. We got eight extra people for that." The governor would like the coastal season to be recognised as an event, which would make it possible to use private surveillance more often. At the same time, social costs can be reduced, as private surveillance costs will have to be borne by oneself. According to Decaluwé, this can also be done at football matches: "A perimeter can be set where security officers can act." Decaluwé saw all the fruits of the private effort, including on the highway parkings, in the context of the transmigrant problem. I have the following questions, Minister. Can you tell me how many contracts have been concluded with the private sector since the new law on private security, for what tasks, according to which mode operandi and at what cost? What do you think are the benefits of outsourcing tasks? Are you prepared to allow further private surveillance in addition to the police forces? For what assignments? Do you still want to take steps in the core tasks plan? Do you share our view that a new plan is needed in which the police really concentrate on their core tasks? The current plan does not provide enough extra police capacity. What measures can be taken to ensure that they are implemented? Will you take any further steps, if so, to reform the selection, recruitment and training of the police before the elections of 26 May 2019?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u28	Mrs De Crom, your last question seems to me to be the most difficult, because we do not have the will but lack the time to do so. I will try to answer all your questions. Since the new Private Security Act of 2 October 2017, to which you referred, the Federal Police have issued one public contract covering the private security services. It was a public contract in the framework of the surveillance of highway parkings in the fight against the transmigrants. The fact that the private surveillance sector is addressed and used to contribute to security orders is a positive finding. After all, it was an objective of the new law regulating private and special security and that recent law now allows the private security sector to become more involved in public security initiatives. In this context, I encourage co-operation between the police and the private sector. The positive possibilities are indeed demonstrated by examples such as the preventive deployment of surveillance agents in highway parkings, football matches, critical infrastructures or public road events. The current legal framework thus offers many possibilities to relieve police forces of certain tasks, taking into account certain guarantees and a foreclosure of police powers or public authority. In the field of education, the Steering Committee also continues its work on the revision of the education of safety professions. The negotiation of the new concept of recruitment and selection with the police is therefore on the negotiating table. To anticipate your last question, I can tell you that this will not be possible before the elections of 26 May 2019. However, in any event, the next government agreement will re-examine the question of tasks and tasks in the police's internal task debate, as will the division between the nature of the tasks and the maintenance of public order, and the determination of what is public and what is no longer public.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u29	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. I know that we do not have much time left. You agree with me that the key tasks can be reviewed. We're looking forward to that with you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u30	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Schlitz' 28929 will be converted into a written question. I have not yet heard from Mr Calvo.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u31	Mr Minister, since Saturday 9 February 2019, smoking in cars in which children are under 16 years of age is prohibited in Flanders. The police will in the first instance raise awareness and give people a warning. Specific smoking controls would not yet be carried out. However, the theme would be taken into account in the usual traffic actions. However, it would be unclear for the time being who should carry out the smoking ban control. There would have been no consultation on this. The police assume that the officials of the Flemish Environmental Inspectorate will carry out the checks as a matter of priority. Local police only have subsidiary jurisdiction, because the ban is not covered by traffic legislation but by the environmental law enforcement decree. That was in the media in early February. Mr Minister, who do you think is competent to carry out the smoking ban checks? In the meantime, has there been any consultation between the police and the Regions? What was the result of that? Are you in favour of extending the ban to the federal level, as proposed in Mr Dirk Janssens' bill, which was already approved in the Health Committee?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u32	The Flemish Decree states that smoking is prohibited in a vehicle in which children under the age of 16 are present. It is punished according to the Flemish environmental law enforcement decree with an administrative fine or with a criminal fine. Enforcement must be carried out by the Flemish environmental regulators, for the management of directors, and/or by the police forces, for the criminal proceedings. In the local police, there are police officers who have both supervisory and police powers. Environmental decrees linked to criminal provisions must be respected. The position of the local police is that, in view of the specific ban, environmental regulators must first play a role here. In the alternative, the police act as a complement to enforcement by the Flemish supervisors, who can and must develop a specific enforcement and prosecution policy in consultation with the Attorney General. I support the police forces in this approach, even though it will not be evident in certain cases to establish the offence in black and white. In reply to your last question, I can tell you that any proposals to protect and promote the health of our children must of course be seriously considered. I propose that they form part of a scheme to improve existing legal and legal frameworks, which are not clear. Of course, I agree with the spirit of the ban.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u33	Minister, I agree with you that the control is not clear. I understand from your reply that the police remain in its original position, namely that it will only carry out subsidiary checks together with the public prosecutor, within the framework of a global enforcement policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u34	Mr Minister, my question concerns the federal budget allocated to the Kali team. The Antwerp Power Plan has been in a turbospeed since last year with the so-called war on drugs of Mayor Bart De Wever. That plan includes the Kali team, in which the local and federal police, the parquet, the social inspection and customs work together physically. The 80-strong team has been active since September. The federal government came to the aid of Antwerp and granted a grant of EUR 500 000. Only, due to legal and administrative difficulties, former Minister of the Interior and Security, Jan Jambon could not transfer the money in time and so the Antwerp city treasury, if my intelligence is correct, paid the sum. Two weeks ago, we witnessed an unbearable spectacle between the minister and the mayor of Antwerp. It was about whether or not an e-mail would have been sent to the cabinet to finish the file. Minister, how do you evaluate the functioning of the Kali team in Antwerp? What has the team done since it was founded? What results have been achieved? What lessons can we draw from the Power Plan for the possible roll-out of new plans? Can you explain the promised financial support for the Power Plan?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u35	Ms Gabriels, the Kali team started on 1 September 2018. The goals of the team were threefold. First, targeted imaging and information collection around the Antwerp drug clans. Secondly, to develop a multidisciplinary approach to undermining crime and drug clans. Thirdly, to coordinate strategic criminal investigations. In addition to the regular drug investigations carried out by both federal and local police, a multidisciplinary approach, together with various inspection and control services, is being sought in commercial matters that can be used as cover, company or facilitator for organised crime. A policy and operational evaluation of the approach to this issue is planned in September 2019. It is too early to evaluate the plan just six months after its entry into force. Last month, the Steering Committee of the Stroomplan, of which my policy cell is part, decided to allocate a scientific evaluation of the Kali team to the University of Ghent. The results are expected in autumn 2019. In the meantime, in addition to regular police investigations, 23 multidisciplinary controls took place and 12 premises were closed. The following sectors were mainly addressed: food stores, non-profit organisations, catering shops, telephone shops, rental companies and a car dealership. The reimbursement of the advance by the local police to which you referred was budgeted in 2018, but could no longer be realised by the departure of the N-VA ministers and secretaries of state from the federal government. I have instructed my services to work out a solution within the budgetary limits of current affairs and to act accordingly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u36	Minister, I agree that an evaluation after a year would be better. You also say that you have already taken concrete actions, including the appointment of the University of Ghent to carry out the evaluation. As for your answer to the last question, will it be possible within the provisional twelfths or are you not yet sure?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u37	I've asked the federal police's financial services if the plan can be scheduled. I don't have an answer yet, but, to make a long story short, I think there should be a possibility of implementing it. I await the proposals.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u38	Minister, in your political life before the government of current affairs, as Secretary of State for Foreign Trade, the government gave you some extra work as a nuclear envoy for the MYRRHA project. As I have noticed in the press, you are personally a very strong supporter of this. It was also clear that the Nuclear Research Centre could use some extra support for that project and its search for resources. In the meantime, the answer to one of my parliamentary questions to the Minister for Energy shows that, despite your cooperation and embassy, this search for foreign investment and cents has not yet brought about an international commitment. That is my first observation. Secondly, with your new assignment as Minister of the Interior......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It is impossible to be both nuclear envoy and promoter of a nuclear project as well as Minister of the Interior responsible for nuclear safety. What exactly did the nuclear mission involve? How did you fill that out? What is the future of that, now that you, as Minister of the Interior, are responsible for nuclear safety? Hopefully you will realise that these two competences are difficult to reconcile, as a project such as MYRRHA presents some challenges in the field of nuclear safety.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u39	You make a question for me in addition to reflections. My assignment as a special envoy for MYRRHA, or the multipurpose hybrid research reactor for high-tech applications, was linked to my previous position as Secretary of State for Foreign Trade. I resigned that post when I became Minister of Security and Foreign Affairs. So I'm no longer a special envoy to MYRRHA. There is therefore no incompatibility or conflict of interest with my competence in the field of nuclear safety. For all other questions, you will have to address Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for Energy Peeters, who has now taken over the authority of Special Envoy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u40	I'm learning today that Minister Peeters has taken over the role of nuclear envoy. The search continues. I do have a number of considerations. I will also tell the new nuclear envoy, Mr De Crem. I think Mr Peeters is putting his time and energy best into future projects. There is a reason why MYRRHA has not yet collected a euro. The world has changed. One will find very difficult, or apparently no, foreign investors for that project. It has started and continues to be located in the search for a new generation of nuclear energy. In a'renewable' world, there is little interest in this. Furthermore, you have given up the task, but you have not shown any real restraint on the nuclear issue since then. I note that the FANC, of which you are the supervisory minister, has already entered into your views, something that Mr Temmerman has asked a question about. They are already starting to investigate the extension of life, for which you have made a plea.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u41	And rightly so.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u42	I can understand that the FANC is a bit confused, if the superintendent gives interviews that the core exit is just laughing and that there will be a lifetime extension. I can understand somewhere that the FANC shoots into action, but that is not the intention.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u43	Mrs Temmerman has asked a fair question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u44	I'd still like to invite you to lay down your nuclear mission. You have done this formally for MYRRHA, but it would be interesting if you would just do that tout court and work with your partymates for the core trip.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u45	We can discuss this for a long time. Anyway, I would remind you that the application areas of MYRRHA also include non-energy applications, making our country also a leader in medical applications. It is remarkable to note that there is unconditional capitulation at Green and that the world leadership of our technical nuclear know-how is in the hands of others. They'll be happy to take over. I will also report that Green position to the medical sector, which is still a top technology sector. At least it's not my point of view. You do not want to support nuclear applications in medicine, this top technology. So the world leadership of our country doesn't matter to Green. It will be very interesting to remember that for the campaign.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u46	I look forward to having the debate on this matter. I would like to invite you to stick to our position, rather than your own interpretation of it. You seem to have enough difficulty to remember your own party positions. Perhaps you can limit yourself to that. Mr De Crem, our position is that there is, of course, a future for medical applications. In fact, we need to get to work there with our history and the know-how...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u47	With your foreign friends you go to conferences with? Then which of your supporters would that be for you? You'll find other supporters...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u48	I was talking about the medical applications. These are very important, but MYRRHA is not a purely medical project. That is why funding is so difficult. MYRRHA has started and is still a project on the fourth generation of nuclear energy. It's strange that you don't have that in mind after years of emissary. Of course, we see an important future for our nuclear sector. You should know that I have already made proposals in the past to reinvent the SCK and let it play its leading role. However, it is our belief that the current MYRRHA project is more life-threatening for the SCK than it is a life insurance policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u49	The deadline for reply has been exceeded. We will end the discussion.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u50	Mr President, the Minister wants to debate it during the campaign. That's why I want to put him on the road.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u51	We cannot continue the debate here. You've had plenty of time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u52	Mr President, I am doing this because it would be a pity if the Minister did not come to the ice during the campaign.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u53	Mr Calvo, I have been a nuclear envoy for barely a year. During that year I made sure that Belgian know-how, knowledge and skills were made absolutely worldwide. If not, many countries were ready to take over the technical know-how from us. The result is positive.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u54	For the time being, Minister, you have not been able to collect euros, which I do not personally blame you for. This has to do with the MYRRHA project itself. The final point I would like to make is important, especially if you wish to make an effort in front of the study centre. You should read Minister Marghem's answer to my question. It already notes that the SCK has invested a lot of own resources in the MYRRHA project, in addition to the additional funding. That is why, in the nuclear sector and in the study centre itself, many people are concerned about the impact of MYRRHA on the future of the study centre. If you really are an ally of the study centre, you are not a blind fan of the MYRRHA project. I just wanted to give you that, looking forward to the debates during the campaign. After all, it would be a pity if you were not able to carry out the debates with the full information.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u55	Mr Calvo, my strength was so great that the MYRRHA project has already invested EUR 558 million.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u56	We will end the discussion now.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u57	Minister, you were a nuclear envoy in the government. You convinced the government to invest in the project. However, you did not collect a euro of foreign money.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u58	The positions are well known.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u59	Minister, the federal government will also free up funds in 2019 for security and prevention policies in the 29 cities and municipalities that used to have a security and society contract under local security and crime prevention policies. A little more than EUR 14 million will be made available for this purpose. This specific federal allowance is granted to the city or municipality. According to the Ministerial Letter PLP 34 it is budgeted as a receipt in the city budget. This will then be transferred to the police area as an additional urban allowance. Over the years, the procedure for obtaining this federal allowance has been changed several times. For the 2015 year of operation it was included in the KB that the file had to be accounted for through the ICT application. However, the KB lacked additional explanation. That's why the police department of the Ghent police area is waiting to file the report. As a result, the police area of Ghent, and perhaps other police areas, currently owes EUR 1,155 million for the years 2015, 2016 and 2017. However, a correct payment of the arrears is necessary in order to avoid the treasury problems of the local police area of Ghent. Don't forget, Minister, that the city of Ghent is already financially severely disadvantaged by the KUL standard in matters relating to police relations. Hence my questions. Will you provide a quick and correct payment of the backseats to which the Ghent police area is entitled in accordance with the security and society contract for the years 2015, 2016 and 2017? What's the situation with the other police zones? Are they also entitled to the late payments relating to this specific federal grant?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u60	Until 2001, 29 cities benefited from a security and a social contract, including the funding of civilian police personnel. As a result of the police reform, the share of the allowance was integrated into the federal police's donation. In 2009, a rationalisation of the budgetary support mechanism was achieved and the budget for the funding of civilian staff was withdrawn from the police donation and transformed into a specific grant. This subsidy for the security and society contract could and may relate to a contribution to the functioning of the police zones, the fight against crime, nuisance and the sense of insecurity or the fight against violent radicalisation. Thus, the city was able to decide to distribute the subsidy granted to them among these posts. The cities and municipalities had to justify the use of the grants granted to them on the basis of a financial file. After the in-depth verification of these financial records and the conduct of a conflict procedure, a final statement will be made by my administration and the balance due will be paid to the cities and municipalities. Only the city or municipality benefiting from the grant can clarify the specific local situation associated with the orderly transfer of appropriations to the police area. Since it is the city or municipality that decides whether or not to pass on to the police area, I cannot, of course, tell you more about the situation of the different police zones. However, as regards the billing of federal grants for the period 2015-2017, the financial files are expected by September 2019. Then an overview will be available to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u61	The most important question remains, of course, whether the arrears will be paid. For Ghent, in total...
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u62	I met the mayor last Friday before the police meeting. Those things came up at the time. I've asked the federal police to give me an answer to your questions. Perhaps I could give you more substantial information about this at a forthcoming committee meeting before the dissolution of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u63	This substantial information should, in particular, include the payment of the arrears. 1.155 million is perhaps a big deal for the federal budget, but for the city budget and certainly for the police area, that is a huge amount. This could lead to problems over the next few years. Minister, if I understand correctly, please ask me to re-examine the question within three weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u64	I hope that I will be able to give you additional information.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u65	Minister, my question is about statements made by Mr François Farcy, the head of the federal judicial police in Bergen. Following the investigation of an Antwerp-based Assyrian-Turkish mafia family several arrests have been carried out in recent weeks. The gang would have dealt with drug smuggling, money laundering, weapons and corruption. According to the parquet, the goal was not only to acquire a great wealth, but also to gain influence with the police, the city services, the port, politics, banking and the Church. For example, the gang would not only have asked police officers to provide hand and span services, but also a city clerk as well as contacts in the banking sector. The head of the federal judicial police of Bergen, François Farcy, who specializes in mafia clans, organized crime and gangs traveling around, raised the alarm a while ago and claimed in Sudpresse's newspapers that the mafia and other criminal organizations were getting away for years, because we were so keenly focused on the terrorist threat. Our undermanned services were involved in terror, allowing the Italian, Albanian and Moroccan mob to expand their activities considerably. Criminologists agree with this view and say that due to the slackening attention we now know a lot less about their composition and activities. Due to the focus on terror, the gangs have flourished in our country in recent years, thanks to our excellent location at the heart of Europe and the presence of the Antwerp port through which drugs often enter. To map such a mafia clan or organized gang obviously costs a lot of people and resources. The central management of organized crime would only have one expert in arms trafficking and two specialists in motorcycle gangs, but two branches of crime gangs. In addition, many strategic analysts studying and processing information from the local police zones have disappeared from the framework. In this context, I have the following questions, Minister. Do you agree with Mr Farcy's disturbing statements? Do we have enough information in our country about the composition and activities of the Mafia and what it deals with? Have the Channel Plan in Brussels and the Streamplan in Antwerp also produced results in the fight against mob gangs? What does the current composition of the central executive on organised crime look like? Who and how many policemen support that service from the local level? Are there measures and, if so, what measures to strengthen the fight against organised crime and the mafia in particular?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u66	Ms Gabriels, your question fits into the policy cycle of the National Safety Plan 2016-2019. It included the target group approach as a transversal approach or priority, as this can be drawn from the previous cycle. Following a threat analysis, based on available capacity, it was determined that Albanian organised crime and Turkish crime groups would be involved. In addition, efforts were made to follow up the criminal motorcycle gangs, given the cooperation with the Justice Department and the federal prosecutor's office. In cooperation with the federal judicial police, it was agreed to strengthen the approach by using tactical ad hoc analyses, where appropriate, and by investigating the dismantling of the entire criminal clan. It was also agreed that the federal judicial police would set up their own regional image wherever appropriate. It was also used to spread the expertise to a wide network of researchers. The continuation of the effort on organised crime in the next policy cycle seems therefore appropriate, in order to achieve a more structural focus, in which we need to strike a balance between the phenomena and an unsub-grouped approach within the police and the judiciary, taking into account the available and necessary capacity. Federal police figures on organised crime indicate that criminal organisations are mainly involved in drugs and financial crimes. The Channel Plan was launched in 2016 by my predecessor, in collaboration with nine municipalities and five police zones, across different levels and in different domains. It has the positive effect of making it harder for people to stay under the radar. The Kali team was effectively launched on 1 September 2018. The evaluation of the Kali team and its operation is planned for autumn 2019 in view of the one-year evaluation period. In the meantime, 23 multidisciplinary checks were carried out in addition to regular police investigations. 12 premises were closed down in court. Practice shows that organised crime is nestling in the legal economy. We note that the legal structures are being abused and that the criminal law approach is inadequate. An integrated, integrated and, above all, decisive financial approach to organised crime is more necessary than ever. As for your fourth question on the Central Executive of the fight against serious and organised crime, which currently has an allocated capacity of 331 full-time equivalents. At the beginning of February, gross capacity was 250 FTEs, which means a deficit of 32 %.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u67	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. You did not comment on the statements made by the head of the federal judicial police, but from your reply I understand that you do not fully agree. I also understand that resources and capacity are limited, but you say that sufficient priority is still being given, in accordance with the National Security Plan.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u68	Minister, in early 2018, we heard that the local police of Antwerp launched its new Focus@GPI app. Agents can use the app on devices the Corps has given them, but also on their personal smartphones if needed. The app is revolutionary for police work. Agents can use it to consult all possible databases, such as the criminal record, the national register and the database of license plates. Cops can also make a report with the app. They find an overview of all incidents and the crews handling the incidents. The app also contains a map with all possible info, ranging from the teams on site, cameras, emergency services to useful information about the city. The daily briefing, which used to be in a power point in the morning, can now be found in the app. It also contains all contact details of colleagues with whom security can be communicated via the app. The federal police have now adapted the app together with the local police of Antwerp for national and therefore multilingual use. The app was renamed Focus@GPI, the bilingual abbreviation for the integrated police. As of next month, the app would be rolled out to the other police forces: first by local pilot zones and a federal traffic unit, then follow all local police zones and the first-line services of the federal police. It is of course interesting that such modern means of communication can be used. What service of the federal police is responsible for the development of the app? Which zones get the scoop to test the Focus@GPI app? What's the timing? Police officers may only use the app for professional tasks falling within their individual competences. How is privacy guaranteed when searching the databases? The app offers a lot of additional possibilities to access the databases. What functionalities will the app be used for? Is there any research on whether identity checks can be performed with the app? Will it be possible to prevent ethnic profiling? Professors at the VUB are indeed of the opinion that it can be done.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, it was agreed through a protocol that the Antwerp police area is responsible for the development of Focus@GPI. The federal police, more specifically the Information and ICT Directorate, will be responsible for the so-called hosting and infrastructure supply. Let me tell you which entities can use Focus@GPI first. For the Flemish Region the PZ Grape Region, Voorkempen, West Coast, Antwerp and the WPR or road police Antwerp. For the Brussels-Capital Region, second the PZ PolBru and the PZ Marlow. For the Walloon Region these are the police zones Namur, Mons-Quévy and Weser-Göhl. At the end of March 2019, these police zones will be operationally equipped with Focus@GPI, after which the staff can be trained. In the course of 2019 and 2020, Focus@GPI will then gradually be made operationally available to other entities. Thanks to the Focus@GPI, police people will now access the databases in addition to the existing applications via more mobile applications. However, the rules for access are not adapted and continue to apply. Databases can only be consulted if this fits within the function or operational role of the policeman or woman concerned. User rights for the mobile applications are also granted personalised and all executed searches are logged. The units themselves make the choice in which police base functions Focus@GPI is used. At the moment, police teams in the field mainly carry out identity checks by radio-interviewing the personal data control room. Now the police dispatching will be relieved by allowing police officers to make direct searches through Focus@GPI. So she will be able to work much more efficiently. It goes without saying that the legal framework and the code of ethics must be respected at all times.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u70	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is of course very positive and interesting that such modern means of communication can be extended widely. It is not only nice but even necessary for every police area to have access to it. The log you mentioned is necessary for the protection of privacy because the accessibility is now much greater via smartphones and the like.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u71	Question No 1, by Mr De Pasquale (H-l Mrs Ben Hamou's 28967, 28968, 28969 and 28970 were postponed.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u72	Minister, on the night of February 15-16, a tragic car accident occurred in Rhode-Saint-Genesis. This accident cost the lives of two teenage girls. All our thoughts go to their loved ones. I know one of the dead girls' moms. Her sister's in the hospital. This has nothing to do with the fact that I'm asking you this question. Following this accident, a report was drawn up by the Free Trade Union of the Public Service of the Emergency Areas. The latter found malfunctions that night at the 112-station in Leuven. These malfunctions could have been avoided. According to the report, both the most rapid civil security and adequate assistance law and the law on emergency medical aid have not been complied with, whereas in these circumstances every minute counts to save lives. In fact, it appears that the Leuven power station used ambulance services in Braine-l-l-Alleud – 11 km from the site – while the barracks of Uccle Chênaie, located 5 km from the site, should have been warned, all the more so since the barracks had the means of emergency medical aid and de-enfranchisement. In addition, the SMUR d'Ixelles was contacted, whereas if the Brussels power station had been contacted directly, it would have sent the nearest SMUR teams from Sainte-Elisabeth. In plenary session on 21 February, you stated that the Brussels Fire Department (the Emergency Medical Aid and Incendia Service of the Brussels-Capital Region or SIAMU), the Brussels Emergency Centre 112 and the Flemish Brabant had concluded that the principle of the rapidest adequate aid by the Flemish Brabant Emergency Centre 112 had been respected. You said: "With regard to the choice between the post of Braine-l'Alleud and that of Oak, Braine-l'Alleud is faster than Oake, despite the difference in distance from the accident, which is 11 km compared to 5 km for Oake. But as we know, distances do not always represent real times to arrive at the scene." However, you did not tell us what these actual times of intervention were in the case of the Rhode-Saint-Genesis accident. What was the time of arrival of the firefighters from Braine to Rhode and what would have been the time of arrival of the firefighters from Uccle Oak? It appears that the firefighters in Chênaie, who were later called for de-incarceration, took six minutes to come to the scene. It would have taken the Braine-l-Alleud ambulance 11 minutes. Do you confirm that? The long time of arrival of the rescues on site in Rhode-Saint-Genèse in any case recalls the malfunctions observed during the Buizingen disaster or the attacks at the Brussels-National airport on 22 March 2016. In Buizingen, the firefighters of Overijse, located 30 km away, were contacted, while the firefighters of Anderlecht, located 10 km away, and especially Tubize, should have been contacted. During the attacks at the Brussels-National airport, the centre of Leuven did not want to send reinforcements, considering that there were sufficient resources on site and that more resources would create chaos. It was therefore only 49 minutes after the first contact between Brussels and Leuven, and after the intervention of the medical director of the disaster plan, that the situation became clear. In its recommendations, the Attentats Commission has thus taken up the need to improve the collaboration of 112 plants, but also to better control the allocation of injuries to hospitals. As the Brussels Secretary of State in charge of SIAMU has pointed out several times, it is time to learn from these tragic events. As for the trade unions, they no longer support the mention of investigations without further follow-up. They request that the centres have a view of the vehicles available, that their numbers be increased and that there be a standardized and, above all, law-abiding relief protocol. The Free Trade Union of the Public Service is so exhausted that it does not exclude filing a complaint with you and the Minister of Health if the dysfunctions that it denounces were to continue and ultimately threaten the life of the population. Minister, can you let me know what steps have been taken by your predecessor, by you and by the Minister of Health to respond to the recommendations of the Attentats Commission, but also by firefighters' unions? Should the training provided to power stations be reviewed? Has an overall evaluation of the operation of the Louvain 112 plant been planned? Why hasn't it taken place yet? Given its central location, in the event of an accident in the Brussels periphery, should the call centre of the SIAMU in Brussels not be competent without having to pass through the Louvain power station, as was the case earlier?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u73	Mr President, Mrs Caprasse, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stress once again that the heads of firefighters in Brussels (the Emergency Aid and Incendia Service of the Brussels-Capital Region or SIAMU) and the directorates of emergency centres 112 in Brussels and Flemish Brabant met at my request to analyse in detail the handling of the emergency call for the tragic accident. All parties concluded that the principle of the most rapid adequate aid was respected by the Flemish Brabant Emergency Centre 112 and that the aid requested by Brussels Emergency Centre 112 was well provided. This means that all emergency services, medical aid, firefighters and the police were alerted immediately after the emergency calls were received, in accordance with the principle of the most rapid adequate assistance. The necessary resources have been properly dispatched to assist the victims. I therefore ask that we cease to imply that, although the investigation carried out by my administration and the Office d'Incendie de la Région de Bruxelles-Capitale pointed out the opposite, errors were made in the treatment of the intervention relating to the tragic accident in the territory of Rhode-Saint-Genèse. I insist on respecting the mourning of the victims' families. The same applies to the attacks of 22 March 2016. The parliamentary committee did not point a finger at Louvain Emergency Centre 112. The plant strictly followed and carried out all the procedures, protocols and processes in place at the time. The parliamentary committee has only made global recommendations to improve the intervention process, but it has not called into question either the operators or the management of plant 112, which has shown great professionalism today. I now answer your specific questions. As my predecessor had already announced on several occasions, emergency power plants 112 are gradually leaving their purely provincial operation and will be part of a supra-provincial operation. This requires that all power stations use the same centralized telephone concept and that they all work with the same dispatching application. This integration is under way. The first three plants – Hainaut, Luxembourg and Liège – will migrate this year to this new supra-provincial architecture. The Brussels emergency centre 112 will undergo two waves of changes, the first of which is to replace the old telephone station as a matter of urgency. This replacement is under way. Then, this plant will also be able to migrate to the supra-provincial architecture. The other power stations will join the supra-provincial architecture in the years 2020 and 2021. Once the supra-provincial architecture has been completed, all power stations will be able to alert emergency stations in other provinces, will have an overview of all medical intervention facilities available in other provinces, and will be able to alert and book from their own plants. In addition, the supra-provincial system will allow an overflow of emergency calls to another emergency power station, if the territorially competent power station is submerged by calls. As far as your second question is concerned, there is always a possibility of a training course being reviewed. It is important to point out that 112 operator training already takes more than two months and that then there is still intensive follow-up before an operator can be considered to be truly operating independently. I would also like to point out that all the plants carry out regular quality surveys and that any additional training is organised to fill the gaps. There is no reason to conduct an overall evaluation of the operation of the Louvain 112 emergency power plant. As I have already mentioned, it is time to leave behind unfounded accusations and insinuations against the operation of this emergency power station. Finally, regarding your last question, since the commune of Rhode-Saint-Genèse is located in Flemish Brabant, the emergency centre 112 of Flemish Brabant is responsible for responding to calls from that commune and from all other communes in that province. Finally, the question of expanding the territory of the Brussels-Capital Region is not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u74	Minister, although I would be pleased to do so, I do not ask you to enlarge the Brussels Region. That's not the point. I'm talking about timing. There's still a coucac at the timing level, when you hear the lag about the de-incarceration team. That's an issue for me. You say that the supra-provincial operating system is planned for 2020-2021. It is still a long way away, when there are risks of finding themselves in complicated situations. It's a step forward, it's sure, and it's significant, but it's still a long way in time. Secondly, not to mention the enlargement of the Brussels Region, as you mentioned, I remain convinced that very close cooperation is really important. It's about lives, it's about emergencies, it's about common sense. The stories of Regions have nothing to do with it anymore. I live in Crainhem. You know Crainhem. We are adjacent to the Brussels Region. There's a fire station right next to the UCL. We had, for a whole period, a gentleman's agreement with the firefighters of Woluwe-Saint-Lambert. I believe that we must continue along this path, and that there is a need for more interaction and cooperation between the regions. I'm not a community member in this case. It's a record of humanity and common sense, to save lives. I hope that we can still consider such agreements. I would add that as an echevine, I was recently attending a meeting on the nodplan of my commune, with an intercommunal responsible for management. I raised this issue. I said that it is necessary to collaborate with the Brussels Region when it comes to proximity and relief. I'd like that message I'm sending to be heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u75	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Kir 28992 was converted into a written question.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u76	Minister, crime statistics have shown a new phenomenon in recent years, the so-called keyless car thefts. The operandi mode is to scan the signal of keyless systems, where there is no physical contact with the AudiTT to be able to open and start it. Apparently, there are gangs specializing in this technique. In the city of Ghent I know of some victims. The problem is that too few citizens are aware of this technique at the moment, which means, for example, that they often place their car key too close to the front door. After all, there is a communication between the system and the car key and the signal can be picked up by malicious persons if possible. Mr Minister, I have the following questions. First, how many declarations of keyless car thefts are known to your services for 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018 and 2019? I also like to get a split-up a year. Are there certain regions and/or police areas that are sensitive to them? I'd like some explanation. Secondly, do you know about prevention and/or awareness campaigns in local or federal police? Thirdly, do you have plans to take certain measures in this area, for example by supporting local police or by launching a federal awareness campaign?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u77	Mr Yüksel, the so-called mousejacking is a theft that is categorized as a theft of a vehicle by means of a technique of hacking the electronic safety systems of a vehicle, starting the vehicle afterwards, without a key and without a break-in. That technology allows the signal to be transmitted within minutes and remotely by intercepting or disrupting the key, copying the key or bypassing the anti-start system via the diagnostic plug. Within the police nomenclature there has been a special mode operandi mousejacking since August 2017. For 2017, 11 car thefts with mousejacking mode were registered by police forces in the general national database. For the first semester of 2018, 10 registrations of a car theft with that particular mode have been recorded. It is somewhat premature to draw conclusions on the basis of these figures. It is not yet known whether the mousejacking technique would be used more in certain regions or police zones than in others. The figures are too premature for that. The prevention of thefts of this type can be divided into two shutters. Firstly, what the citizen can already do preventively at the moment is realise that it is enough to keep the key in a metal container to block the capture of the signal. Secondly, technical adjustments by the sector itself to the system, for example by means of a key that can be switched off, so that there is no more signal. For the first point, messages have already been sent repeatedly and through various channels, social media and press, by several police services, especially local ones, to warn and inform the public. For the second point, the manufacturers will have to make the necessary adjustments, which are mainly technical in nature. This is a matter which has been raised side by side at several meetings in the margins of the former car salon.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u78	Thank you for your answer and for the figures, Minister. The numbers are not all that bad, but in Ghent a phenomenon is observed. I'll pass this information on to the local Ghent police. And I believe that the citizens themselves can also take preventive action.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u79	Minister, relations between the police unions and the government are governed by the law of 24 March 1999 and the Royal Decree of 8 February 2001 implementing that law. The law stipulates that every six years the representativeness of the recognized trade unions shall be checked on a date to be determined by the King. Within 30 days, the trade union shall apply by registered letter establishing representativeness. The implementing KB provides that the late submission of that application implies that the trade union concerned is not eligible for the application for representativeness. The NSPV has recently been informed that it no longer met the conditions of representativeness. However, the NSPV has more than 12 000 members. However, an opinion of the Legislative Section of the Council of State shows that the article, which provides for the exclusion of research, is contrary to the law. How will trade unions be informed of the date on which they are required to apply for recognition of representativeness? Are you aware of the opinion of the Legislative Section of the Council of State that the illegal situation regarding the exclusion of the investigation into representativeness is cited? What are the consequences of your decision not to recognise representativeness for the members of the trade union in question?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u80	The rules governing the representativeness of trade union organisations in the police force are laid down in the Law of 24 March 1999, which governs relations between the government and the trade unions of police staff. In addition, the Royal Decree of 8 February 2001 implementing the Act referred to above applies. In particular, it is foreseen that every six years the Audit Board will examine whether the trade unions meet the representativeness criterion. The start date of that six-year period was fixed by the King and began on 1 January 2001. The determination of the non-representativeness of the trade union in question was suspended in the event of a very urgent need pursuant to the judgment in No. Council of State of 19 February 2019. As a result, the trade union in question retains the status of representative trade union with the corresponding prerogatives and is currently examining how the contested rules should be adjusted, since the Council of State considers that certain articles of the Royal Decree are not in conformity with the above-mentioned law. For these reasons, the Council of State did not apply the articles of the Royal Decree to the situation of the NSPV, even if those articles remain in the Royal Decree, which has been in force for eighteen years. In addition, the other articles of the Royal Decree must be examined for their possible illegality, in order to clarify the matter.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u81	Mr President, the situation has been going on for a number of years and there is a need to rectify this situation. I have also prepared a bill on this subject.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u82	The situation has existed for 18 years. It would be very interesting to see whether all kinds of advice has been taken into account since 2001. I would also like to say that the NSPV deserves its place in the syndicated landscape with the police. I made that clear to the NSPV as well. It was an initiative of my own that I could not avoid.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u83	The law on integrated police provides in Article 127 that police officers of the operational framework should not be candidates for a political mandate. The deontological code, Article 25, states that, in order to be able to stand for a political mandate, they must have obtained their resignation or a non-activity on personal matters. If a policeman or woman wishes to run and be elected, he or she may avail himself or herself of these opportunities. However, the return to the police is possible. Non-activity may last for two years. Within four years of discharge, the former policeman or wife may request re-entry into the Corps. This means that they have been able to express their political convictions for a few years. Moreover, policemen also have the right to speak and in times of social media it is not unthinkable that they can have and express opinions on political items in their personal time and title. I also refer to Articles 22 and 25 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. On the basis of this Treaty, an operational policeman or woman, as is the case in the Netherlands, can do politics, but not in the territory of his own unit, in this case the zone concerned. These are the restrictions imposed by the Treaty. To what extent does the absolute neutrality of police officers apply in today's society? To what extent can political opinions of police officers on social media be addressed? To what extent can re-incorporated policemen who have once been politicians or candidate politicians still be regarded as neutral? Is it not necessary to update the absolute nature of neutrality in the light of the international treaty?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u84	Mr Degroote, you are asking a very important question. Article 127 of the law on the organisation of the integrated police service, structured at two levels, the well-known WGP, describes the impartiality of staff in the operational framework of the police services. However, the explanatory memorandum to the WGP states that it is not prohibited to join a political party or to participate in a political activity which is not of a public nature. Point 25 of the deontological code of the police services is in line with this by clarifying that staff wishing to apply for a political mandate must have obtained their resignation or non-activity on personal grounds. In these cases, the police office is no longer exercised for at least a temporary period. Subject to the general and specific legal and regulatory requirements relating to professional secrecy, the secrecy of investigations and the obligation of discretion, the Staff Regulations shall guarantee staff the right to freedom of expression in respect of facts of which they are aware by virtue of their duties. However, care must be taken to ensure that the service and dignity of the office are not harmed and that no damage is done to the powers conferred on it, to the public institutions and to third parties. These principles were also incorporated in the code of ethics and, within certain services, directives on the use of network sites and social media have already been developed. Failure to respect them can be addressed through statutory evaluation and disciplinary procedures. The period during which police officers can be re-enlisted shall never exceed four years. The interim exercise of a political mandate in itself does not prevent the re-inclusion. As soon as the re-inclusion takes place, the staff member shall once again comply fully with the statutory provisions and respect the impartiality obligation. An operational staff member who is in a long-term absence due to personal matters shall not exercise any political mandate. The Municipal Decree determines an absolute incompatibility between the status of staff member of a police zone and council member of a municipality forming part of that police zone, both in a multi-municipality zone and in a municipal zone. The Arbitration Court, now the Constitutional Court, already ruled on 15 July 1993 on the provision in the police statute which requires the police members to refrain from public evidence of political belief and from public politics. The Court found that the provision was not disproportionate to the objective pursued. Article 25 of the BUPO Convention, the Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, also accepts reasonable restrictions on participation in politics. I can add that one of the first proposals I put forward, together with Mr Fernand Ghesquière, in the 1995-1999 session concerned precisely the use of the political rights of military forces in active service and also the members of the former municipal police force at that time still existed municipal police and state guard. Several of these proposals have been accepted over time, but with the necessary limitations.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u85	I think there's a moving insight into that matter. Last week we had a legislative proposal in plenary on the restrictions imposed by the BUPO Convention. I don't know if you've been following that. In accordance with Rule 88, that goes back to committee and can in fact be considered approved. In fact, the BUPO Convention allows the restriction to "do not operate in its own zone'. It must be possible to get to work on this, so that those involved can at least work for a municipality politically, as long as it is outside their police zone. We'll see what the future brings. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-02-27-54-commissie-ic1047x.u86	Debates of the European Parliament Mr Vermeulen's 28958 is converted into a written question.
