ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-17-55-commissie-ic003x.u1	Madam President, Minister, the services have told me that you would answer the questions I have asked, both to you and to the Minister of the Interior, so that my colleagues are not surprised by the mix of genres! Minister, a study on the judicial treatment of rape cases carried out by Belgian researcher Danièle Zucker at the request of the European Commission reveals that in the sample examined, half of the authors remained unknown. Of the remaining fifty, four were tried, three were suspended and only one was sentenced to an effective sentence. These figures show that perpetrators of rape are neither actively sought nor prosecuted. The Belgian policy of filing cases of sexual violence without further action has already been condemned by the European Court of Human Rights in 2017. Minister, could you tell me how to ensure that more authors are identified? What specific measures has your government implemented? Do you have figures that would show positive developments? In addition, is your Government considering strengthening the capacity of the police services, as recommended in the Istanbul Convention's alternative report? Where do the messages in the modules come from with regard to the training of agents? Are these trainings provided in all police areas? Finally, what means are available to ensure that more rape is brought to justice when the perpetrator is identified?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-17-55-commissie-ic003x.u2	Madam President, allow me also to congratulate you in the public and thank Mr Goffin, who is absent, once again for his splendid presidency of recent years. Mrs Schlitz, the study to which you refer is based on a non-representative sample of a hundred random cases of reported rape, of which only 4% landed in court. The actual percentage of offences prosecuted is higher and is around 14 per cent. However, many files are closed without technical follow-up, due to lack of proof or identity of the author. As part of an oral question, I am not in a position to ask the College of Attorneys General for figures. In addition, sexual violence suffers from a high number of unreported and unsolved crimes. Therefore, we must continue to adopt measures that, on the one hand, further encourage victims to file complaints and, on the other hand, improve research and prosecution. With regard to instruments that could increase the number of cases clarified by the police, reference may be made to the Violent Crime Linkage Analysis System (VICLAS), which is managed by the Moral Facts section of the Police Behaviour Sciences Department. This fact-bank makes it possible to establish links between the different moral files and thus to make more effective use of the data from the minutes. On 27 June, a new directive on this ViCLAS system was approved by the College of Attorneys General. With regard specifically to police training, the police officer learns to better accommodate possible victims of sexual violence. Particular attention is paid to sexual criminal law. During the previous legislature, many other initiatives have already been taken, in particular to raise the awareness of the police and the justice system to intervene even more effectively and severely, but I cannot list them all here.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-17-55-commissie-ic003x.u3	Minister, thank you for your answers. It is commendable to want to encourage more victims to file complaints, but I think that, in large part, what discourages them from doing so is the fact that few prosecutions and convictions are successful. But one really does not go without the other and one is a priority over the other. When we know that 75% of sexual violence occurs in the victim's entourage, it seems to me that there is a real margin for progress in the capacity of the police to identify the perpetrators. Associations estimate that there are almost 100 cases of rape per day in Belgium. However, the fight against sexual violence is only sixth among the ten priorities of the police and the judiciary, after the fight against tax fraud, social fraud or cybercrime. In our country, we are more likely to find ourselves in court by harbouring migrants than by raping someone. The signal sent to the population is very negative. This will have to be emphasized in the next legislature. As far as the training of officers is concerned, I am pleased that we have put things in place. I would have liked to have some clarification on the case of the Secunews website – which is running the networks for the time being – which encourages police officers to cultivate doubt in the event of a complaint from a victim of sexual violence. I will ask your colleague from the Interior about this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-17-55-commissie-ic003x.u4	Madam President, Minister, I discovered on the FPS Justice website a brochure dated February 2019 on the reform of corporate and corporate law. I had the opportunity to say under the previous legislature all the evil I think of this employer-inspired reform. But another shocking thing is that, as his colophon indicates, this brochure is written and edited by a employers' organization, the Federation of Belgian Enterprises (FEB), and that on the cover page of this brochure, we find the logos of the Justice FPS alongside that of the FEB. You are necessarily aware of the existence of this brochure since you co-sign the introduction with the general secretary of the FEB, the president of the SPF Justice, the president of the Royal Federation of Belgian Notariat and the CEO of Graydon Belgium. This raises several questions. Who took the initiative in this brochure? Did you agree that the FPS Justice should publish this brochure on its website for which the responsible publisher is the FEB? Did you also agree that the FPS Justice logo should appear next to the FEB logo on the cover of the FPS Justice brochure? What legal and regulatory instruments should the FPS Justice normally follow to ensure the neutrality of the administration, which I do not consider to be respected if they exist? Do you intend to have this employer brochure removed from the FPS website? Finally, has the FEB been involved in drafting draft laws on the reform of business and company law? If so, what were his contributions?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-17-55-commissie-ic003x.u5	Madam President, Mr Van Hees, to answer your first question, I should like to inform you that the brochure to which you refer is a shared publication from the SPF, the Royal Federation of Belgian Notariat, the FEB and Graydon. The purpose of this cooperation was to improve the visibility of this publication and to inform the target public as much as possible about the reform of company and association law. With regard to your other questions, I can answer that the FPS Justice Steering Committee decides independently on cooperation with other partners and the modalities of cooperation. In a standard manner, communication actions take into account federal directives on the communication of authorities. To answer your last question, I can tell you that the law of 23 March 2019 on the reform of company and association law was drawn up in close consultation with all interest groups including FEB, Unisoc, associated associations, FGTB, etc. Several stakeholders were given the opportunity to comment, after which a political decision was taken.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-17-55-commissie-ic003x.u6	Minister, I hear your answer, and in particular the fact that the FPS Justice would have autonomy of decision in this matter. However, you are the minister responsible for this FPS and you have collaborated on this joint initiative with the FEB. I remain deeply shocked by the fact that an employer organization is associated with the Justice FPS and signs as the publisher responsible for the brochure. You're talking about a joint initiative, but the publisher in charge is the FEB. I think this is an unacceptable mix of genders. State and FPS neutrality must be preserved. In this case, this is not the case. You say that several organizations were involved in the bill when it was being prepared. You quote the FEB next to the FGTB. I simply point out that the FGTB was very clearly against this bill. The FEB, on the other hand, was very enthusiastic. So let us not mix everything, Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-17-55-commissie-ic003x.u7	I will ask my own question at the end of the series.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-17-55-commissie-ic003x.u8	Minister, three prisoners recently escaped from the Penitentiary Agricultural Centre in Ruiselede. In the meantime, two of them are lucky to be caught. As far as I know, the third is still a fugitive. I believe it is a good thing that there is an open facility such as the PLC. In this way, the prisoner can be prepared for a return to society. However, this should not lead to a safety risk. I therefore believe that it is important that we draw the necessary lessons from this. I have a few questions for you, Minister. Firstly, how does one actually assess whether a prisoner is eligible to be placed in the PLC? What criteria are respected? Secondly, has there been an arrest warrant issued for the escaped convict who is still on the run? Is he actively tracked down? Thirdly, has there been an evaluation of how the escapes from the PLC could happen? If so, what are the conclusions of this evaluation? Will certain procedures be reviewed? Fourthly, what are the consequences for the escaped prisoners, for example on the prison regime? Was there, perhaps, also a prosecution for any criminal offences they committed during their leisure efforts? Finally, today our criminal law does not provide that anyone who flees prison should at least be punishable and prosecuted if he does not commit criminal offences. You were working on a new penal code. Does it include the criminalisation of purely flights? If it wasn't, what reasoning did you follow not to do so?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-17-55-commissie-ic003x.u9	Mrs De Wit, the decision to place him in the Penitentiary Agricultural Centre is always preceded by a strict screening procedure in prison of origin. Some of the criteria used are that there should be no convictions for sexual offences against minors, that the person concerned should not be a flight risk, that he should not be included in the list of prisoners at risk, that he should have sufficient knowledge of Dutch, that he should have sufficient capacity to complete training and that he should be fit for work. The escaped inmate who is still on the run is nationalised in the General National Police Data Bank and internationally in the Schengen Information System for arrest and re-convict. He's being actively tracked down. Internal procedures in the open layout of Ruiselede have been evaluated and some safety procedures may also be adjusted. The escaped inmates have been placed back in a closed facility. A special safety measure may be imposed on them and disciplinary proceedings may be initiated. It goes without saying that an escape also has a negative impact on the granting of penalties or conditional release. The prison director of Ruiselede informed me that no criminal offences were committed during the attempt to escape. Our current Criminal Code has no criminalisation of the escape of prisoners. There are only criminal offences for the purpose of providing assistance to the escape of prisoners or for the negligence of persons appointed for the purpose of surveillance. The draft new Criminal Code, to which you refer, does provide for such a criminalisation.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-17-55-commissie-ic003x.u10	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answers. I am certainly pleased that the matter has been properly followed up and that the two parties involved have been taken into account. It gets weird sometimes. We see prisons from a certain point of view. I remember once that I arrived in Hoogstraten and that the client I visited there was sitting on a tractor on the field and was already waving at me. It is, of course, confidence that is given and preparation for a return to society. However, if that trust is violated, appropriate response must be given. After all, it shows that the person concerned is not yet fully ready for that return. I am certainly pleased that no criminal offences were committed at the time of escape. I have also noted that a criminal offence is included in the new Criminal Code. Perhaps that will be one of the subjects on which we can discuss the coming months. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-17-55-commissie-ic003x.u11	Minister, Mr Crombez has asked me to be able to deal with items 7 and 8 of the agenda in reverse order.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-17-55-commissie-ic003x.u12	Minister, I have six questions about the Julie Van Espen case. This is a matter of general interest and relates to the wider functioning of justice. The Supreme Court of Justice is conducting an investigation, but it is important for Parliament to get all the information about it. Are you prepared to give this committee a complete overview of the facts? This case became known during the election period. A number of politicians stated that they would not deal with this at the time, because it was too important and too delicate, but that they would record it after the elections. I suggest that this committee should do the same, regardless of the investigation of the Supreme Court of Justice. The second question is important in this sense, that it is a hallucinatory observation about today. In other words, the arrest was followed by a conviction in early 2017 up to four years for rape and theft by force. The immediate arrest at the request of the prosecution was refused because there were no indications that the offender would evade the sentence. After that, it became clear that the unsub had withdrawn from previous sanctions, up to three times, once even months in one piece. I note that if the judge had had the full file, he would never have refused the request for immediate arrest. This is where it happened, because the judge didn't have the entire file. My next two questions deal with this. What steps have you taken in the previous legislature to prevent a judge from having to judge without having all the information available to him? The question is really: how many very dangerous perps are still out there because a judge has to judge without having all the previous information? Would it not be better to amend the legislation so that, on immediate arrest, the main judge should take into account not only the risk of a flight but also the risk of a recurrence by the offender? There has been a discussion between the Government and the Justice Department about the causes. Justice referred to the linear savings of 10% within Justice as a cause. Can you explain what the Justice Department meant by that? It is not so easy for the committee to understand what Justice meant by that, but it is important. In the same vein, what is the overview of the current employment rate of the five courts of occupation and the evolution of that occupation over the past ten years? Staff are assigned to the courts on the basis of staff frameworks which, however, are not currently the result of an objective analysis of needs. What is the result of the announced workload measurements? Should the frameworks be adapted or abolished so that staff can be allocated to courts and courts on the basis of actual needs?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-17-55-commissie-ic003x.u13	Mr Crombez, as you yourself say, the Supreme Court of Justice is investigating this case. The report on the investigation will be public and can certainly be discussed in committee. Questions on the facts themselves should be put to the College of Attorneys General, given the secret of the investigation. As far as your second question is concerned, after the dramatic events, I have indicated that, in addition to the risk of withdrawal, the criterion of recidivism can certainly be considered for the application of an immediate arrest. However, I must point out that, as far as judicial investigations are concerned, the risk of recidivism was previously assessed by the investigating court in the context of the extension of the pretrial detention and/or in the context of the referral to the court. However, there could indeed be changed circumstances which effectively lead to a different assessment of the risk of recidivism, which is why I indicated that, as far as I am concerned, that criterion can be added to the danger of withdrawal at the time of immediate arrest. As regards the information relating to the withdrawal, the prosecution has access to the Sidis Suite prison database, which contains such withdrawals. In the event of a lack of clarity, the prosecution can also always request information from the prison administration. During May, I had two meetings with the President of the College of Attorneys General, with the President of the College of Courts and Courts and with the central administration of the prisons on this issue. Afterwards, a working group further developed the technical details, which will lead to an even better flow of information from the penitentiary past and failures of the accused to the court. Within the magistrate, there is a belief that 10 percent has been saved linearly on the judicial order. That is the result of the fact that the previous government, when it took office, or the outgoing government, if you wish, envisaged a general staff savings of 10% in the government. However, this saving has not been linear with regard to the judicial order. The actual budget figures also show this. The budget for the judiciary even increased between 2014 and 2018 and the funds available for 2019 are for the first time even more than 1 billion euros in the budget for the judiciary. This does not prevent additional resources from being needed in order to further invest in a good justice system. The current capacity utilisation rate will be 89 % for all courts of appeal in July 2019. That's the actual capacity utilisation rate. For the Antwerp appeal court, the capacity utilisation rate in July 2019 was 92 % with 58 counsellors. There are currently 20 vacancies for the courts of appeal, which will result in a capacity utilisation rate of 94 % for all courts together and 97 % for the Antwerp appeal court, taking account of the already well-known applicants. At the beginning of the previous legislature, the rate of occupancy for the courts of appeal was just as high, i.e. 94%. At that time, the Court of Appeal in Antwerp also had 58 counsellors, which was also 92 %. However, settlements in a court of law are dynamic as a result of internal movements, job vacancies and expected and unexpected movers. It is not the first time that I have mentioned that the legal frameworks have not been adapted to the real workload in the field. That is a position which I believe the lectures of the judicial order know very well and with which they at least implicitly agree. In its December 2017 audit of the Courts of First Instance, the Supreme Court of Justice also found that the historical legal frameworks are no longer the result of an objective analysis of current staff needs per court. The legal frameworks prevent an objective division. We are trying to compensate for this at the moment by consulting the lectures in the vacancies and, on the basis of the priorities in terms of workload, declaring the vacancies open in consultation with the lectures. For me, work must be done on an objective and up-to-date distribution of resources between courts and courts. The magistrate has been committed for some time to achieving a workload measurement. The result is put in the immediate prospect by the same magistrate. We are therefore waiting for this with patience and some impatience.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-17-55-commissie-ic003x.u14	Madam President, Minister, thank you for your answers. I will not replicate on every point, but certainly on the first point because I absolutely do not agree with you on that. The Supreme Court of Justice will conduct a specific investigation into the murder. What the Committee on Justice is concerned with is the broader interest, namely an unlikely finding on the functioning of justice. This does not just mean that, despite all the possibilities that exist, people are released after a conviction because the information about the perpetrator is not available to the judge who has to pass judgment. That's an unlikely finding. Your suggestion to present this to the College, with the question of whether and to what extent the Committee on Justice can be informed about the situation in this regard, is a question which I think should be put to you by this committee. Ask that question to the College and make sure that the committee can be informed. That will be after the summer, when the document of the Supreme Court of Justice specifically dealing with this murder becomes known. I repeat once again: if one finds out, not even immediately but after two or three days, that a judge releases someone on the basis of a file containing incomplete data on the offender, that is an unlikely finding. We must try to find out very quickly in the judicial system how big that problem is. How many of these dangerous perpetrators are at large because the Justice Department is unable to draw up a complete file and have a judge judge on that basis? On the positive side, you believe that this can be considered in the case of repeated crime. This is something for the future work of this committee. You say that there are already a number of possibilities, but still there is a lot of time between the different moments of conviction and, possibly, appeal. In this case, that was almost 2.5 years. Then there's the database. It is interesting that you referred to the working group which made a number of findings, perhaps in the context of the first question, to ensure that a court has a complete file before having to rule. Is this working group so advanced that the Committee on Justice can hear the recommendations of the working group? How can this be resolved? The annual report of the FPS Justice says that there is digitisation and automation for the criminal record, especially for local authorities. Does this mean that the criminal record is complete and, if so, why can it not be made available to a judge entirely digitally? Two more dots. The capacity utilisation rate. If I have understood you correctly, we are currently 5% below capacity utilisation at the start of the government. You say that at the beginning of the government it was 94% for all courts together. In July 2019 the figure was 89 %. So we're down by 5 percent.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-17-55-commissie-ic003x.u15	Mr Crombez, if I may interrupt you, the next government has not yet started. It is at the start of the next government that 94 percent will be completed again. That's what I said. I do not know when the next government will start, but there are currently 20 vacant posts which will result in a further 94 % fill-in.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-17-55-commissie-ic003x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for the clarification, but I referred to something else. You said at a certain point that the capacity utilisation rate of all courts together in 2014 was 94 %. That was just in your answer. I only conclude from that that means that today we are 5 % lower because of the non-filling. The question is how to speed up the implementation of the deadlines. After the murder of Julie Van Espen, you yourself pointed out that the deadlines for such cases, including those for appeals, are not really acceptable. My final point is a very simple question. If I understand your answer correctly, we are almost done with the workload measurement. That is almost an historic moment for Belgian justice. So, what term are we talking about? Will this committee be able to look at that after the summer? Is this about the course of next year? When will these results be available?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-17-55-commissie-ic003x.u17	Madam President, if additional questions are raised in the reply which are not answered by the government, may they perhaps be tabled as new oral questions? I suppose.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-17-55-commissie-ic003x.u18	Yeah, I'm sure.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-17-55-commissie-ic003x.u19	Thank you, Minister, for changing the order of questions, because it is only natural that my second question comes after the first. My question is linked to the same case, but is more specifically about the solution. When we look at the Julie Van Espen case, a number of things are important for the future. One can certainly consider introducing the degree of accountability. I understand that, at the start of the debate on the rewriting of the Criminal Code, you were actually in favour of that. In the introduction of the first decision on the rewriting of the Criminal Code, you were in favour of a gradual accountability, whereby the situation is determined not black or white, but where there is also reduced accountability, which may be a reason to punish with care longer and more effectively. That is why I want to know how you feel about this measure. Over the last few days, the press has again shown that there is a real need for a research and clinical observation centre to ensure that suspects can be observed during the study phase for 40 days. How do you feel about that? A third element is the increase in penalties for sexual offences and a tightening of conditional release, especially in the case of repeated offences. How do you feel about that? Finally, I would like to know what you think about the extension of care centres following sexual violence. There are pilot projects in progress today that are being welcomed positively. They are also very much needed, but are not at all area-covering. It is not a good thing that there are only a few pilot projects here and there in the country because the distance in this is not insignificant. What are your views on the extension and structural increase of resources for care centres following sexual violence?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-17-55-commissie-ic003x.u20	Mr President, Mr Crombez, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that, following a wide consultation, the statute of 5 May 2014 was substantially amended by the law of 4 May 2016. However, the legislator chose neither the initial law nor the repair law for the partial imputability system. With regard to the state of mental disorder and therefore the accountability, nothing fundamental was changed to the existing system in the new draft Criminal Code, prepared by an expert committee. It will be up to the present Parliament to judge this. In the new draft Criminal Code, the penalties for sexual violence are considerably increased. However, when assessing legal penalties, account should be taken of the fact that the technique of correcting crimes is abolished and the legal level of punishment becomes the level of penalties directly applicable. The final roll-out of the POKO, the Penitentiary Research and Clinical Observatory, which can assess both interned and inmates with psychiatric problems or offenders of sexual delinquency on their psychiatric problems and recidivism, is currently under preparation. It will take place in the penitentiary establishment of Saint Gillis from 2020. As regards the sexual violence care centres, the evaluation of the three ongoing pilot projects has shown that they respond to a serious need. The low-threshold and holistic approach to care for victims of sexual violence should also lead to increased willingness to report and better evidence available to the judiciary, so that the offender can be identified and more likely to be prosecuted. Those care centres should be extended to all major cities, at least one per province, and should be given more resources. However, tackling sexual violence is primarily a problem which requires a common and integrated approach between the Communities and the federal government. The fight against sexual violence should therefore once again be included as a priority in the various governmental agreements and subsequent policy plans, such as the National Security Plan, the Integrated Security Framework Paper and the National Action Plan Gender-related Violence.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-17-55-commissie-ic003x.u21	Minister, I welcome an important part of your reply, in particular on the timing and state of affairs of the POKO and on the observation that the professional projects for the care centres will have to be located in at least one place per province. I am also pleased to hear that the fight against sexual violence should be a priority and that the measures of punishment have been raised and should also be put into effect. The discussion on the degree of accountability is currently somewhat weird. Indeed, the need and determination to punish sexual violence longer and more effectively should be a question. I don't know who might be against that. The question of getting an intermediate form between sanatorium and insanity has to do with this. That is why, in my original question, I also referred to the initial position of the Minister himself in the First Criminal Code in order to arrive at an intermediate form. This intermediate form can ensure that people are not released prematurely, but can also ensure that the necessary care is provided. At the moment, the statistics are terrible. 90% of victims of sexual violence do not even complain. When it comes to paedophilia, on average, 7 victims have been killed before anyone is caught. The risk of recurrence is also much greater if there is no system in which care is assured. That is actually the issue at stake. I would like to call on the Committee and the Minister to pay particular attention to the minor victims of sexual delinquency. After all, we find that the penalties there are very different according to whether the cases are dealt with under human trafficking or under prostitution. In this context, perhaps we should consider in detail whether we should not explicate teenage pimping as a specific form of trafficking in minors in COL 01/2015 so that the prosecution will certainly always take place on the basis of trafficking in human beings. The penalty measures will therefore be increased. Today, children, boys and girls under 14 years of age are confronted with perpetrators who are released after less than two years. Very often they just come back into the circuit. So we have a huge problem there because we cannot tackle the perpetrators seriously enough for these crimes, especially the sexual exploitation of children, which is one of the worst facts that society must combat as hard as possible, hence my very specific question. There is a problem in dealing with these cases because trafficking in human beings and pimping for sexual delinquency against minors are treated in different ways, with different levels of punishment. The idea is therefore to include this pimping of minors as a specific form of trafficking in human beings in the directive.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-17-55-commissie-ic003x.u22	Minister, one of the problems of Belgian justice is the lack of reliable figures and statistics, which has already been addressed in other questions. This is also evident from the EU justice scoreboard, where Belgium is always lagging behind in the field of measuring systems. However, the boltade "measuring is knowing" is more applicable than ever. Only by providing sufficient information on the number of cases, the average lead time and the workload in general can problems be identified and solutions sought. In the past, magistrates have repeatedly pointed out the shortcomings of the MACH computer system. Rather than opting for your own system, it was then chosen to work with an external partner. The complaints about MACH are huge: the system would be outdated and user-friendly. In addition, it is also due to MACH that there are so few figures and statistics available at Justice, something we have all noticed from our written questions and the answers to them. The College of Courts and Courts states in a letter dated 16 May 2018 that the judicial organisation is longing for a performant computer system. Minister, what is the state of play regarding the roll-out of the MACH system in the various courts? Are we also working on the problem of the lack of reliable figures in the Justice Department? In what way? With what progress?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-17-55-commissie-ic003x.u23	Mrs Van Vaerenbergh, thank you for your question on the MACH computer system. I refer to my answer to your oral question No. 28950 of February on the same subject. It is still possible to roll out company courts by the end of this year. The pilot site of the court of first instance could start this year. Only the labour law banks and the courts still need to start the roll-out. Although the College of Courts and Courts has not formally confirmed MACH's intention to roll out all over its organization, the terrain is highly asking party. Yesterday morning, the presidents of the company court, who said they were speaking on behalf of all the presidents, confirmed their strong support for the roll-out of MACH as soon as possible. They again strongly advocated the start-up of the Veurne pilot site, next to the Liege pilot site. The criticism of the President of the College of Courts and Courts can therefore be justified. Moreover, the presidents of the company courts have asked the College to propose an alternative to MACH. Since this could not happen, they unanimously and resolutely opted for the roll-out of MACH in their court. In reply to your second question, I can tell you that justice does have figures. All applications contain numbers. However, the Colleges of the Public Prosecutor's Office and its seat wish to release these figures only after their validation. As they are lagging behind in validation, the figures are only available with great delay.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-07-17-55-commissie-ic003x.u24	Indeed, Minister, I have asked you this question a number of times. That also points to the problem. It's too bad it can't happen fast. I'm surprised to hear you say there are figures available. Of course, they must first be validated before they are released, but the prosecution itself states on its website that it cannot provide figures because the MACH system does not work. That is certainly a problem, because if we do not have the figures, then we cannot have a policy. I hope that further consideration will be given to a solution for the MACH system, because there is clearly a problem.
