ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u1	The meeting is open. The meeting was opened.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u2	[[for the standing meeting]] The President [[in front of the assembly standing]] On 8 January, Dendermonde Frans Verberckmoes, Honorary Secretary of the Chamber, died. He was 87. After obtaining the diploma of doctor in law and law in criminology, Frans Verberckmoes settled as a lawyer in Dendermonde. At the same time, he joined the liberal party and became cantonal chairman in 1965. In November 1971 Frans Verberckmoes was elected MP for the PVV. As an indefatigable defender of the rights of the self-employed, he was particularly active in the Committee for the Middle Classes, of which he was short-lived chairman at the end of the 1970s. The Committee on Agriculture also enjoyed its full attention. From his constant pursuit of a viable agriculture, he focused on the problems of land consolidation and worked to regulate the financial support for small farmers. Driven by respect for the peasantry, Frans Verberckmoes also held the chair of the Agriculture Committee of the Interparliamentary Benelux Council for some time. From December 1985 to October 1991, Frans Verberckmoes served as Secretary of the House. After twenty years in this assembly, he completed his national political career as a provincial senator from December 1991 to July 1994. After leaving national politics, Frans Verberckmoes remained a communal councillor for a few years in Termonde, where he was also president of several liberal sociocultural associations. Until the early 2000s, he remained an influential figure in the local liberal movement. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in Frans Verberckmoes we are losing a very motivated and socially committed politician, who was also a very valued figure in his beloved city of Dendermonde. On behalf of the Chamber, I expressed our sincere condolences to his wife Renée and his family.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the government joins Parliament to pay tribute to our former Liberal colleague, Mr Frans Verberckmoes. Frans Verberckmoes was a liberal at heart. Driven by strong beliefs, he devoted much of his life to politics. During that period he fought mainly to defend the rights of the self-employed and the middle class. In 1981 he founded the Liberal Confederation for Self-Employees, of which he was chairman until the late 1980s. He was also very active at local level and in the association world and was highly appreciated in his city, Dendermonde. On behalf of the government, I extend my deepest condolences to his family and loved ones. We wish them much courage at this difficult time.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u4	Colleagues, may I ask you to observe a moment's silence in memory of our late colleague?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u5	The answer to these questions will be given by Mrs Wilmès, the Minister for the Budget and the Civil Service.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u6	Mr President, Madam Minister, with all due respect for you, allow me to say that it is unacceptable for the Prime Minister and the Minister of Employment, at a time when we are experiencing a crisis of social consultation, to have preferred to visit Davos. The IPA negotiations have failed. Everything increases except the salary. [[With your 2017 law, the margin is only 0.8%, or crumbs.]] Without this law, we would have had at least a margin of 1.8 per cent. That's not much; it's 1% more than the calculations under the 2017 Act. At least that's not what would have killed our companies. According to the bosses, the law is the law. It is therefore imperative to review the 2017 law on the reform of the 1996 law. In Belgium, if wage subsidies are taken into account, wages are lower than in our neighbours. I'm not saying it, it's the report of the Central Economic Council. After an index jump, after a flexibilisation of the labour market, and they want even more, with the wage moderation already suffered by the workers, the cut is full for its last. It's time to take initiatives, Minister. How are you going to ensure that consultation can resume on a sound basis? In addition, are the minority government parties prepared to adapt or derogate from the 1996 Act as amended?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u7	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the wage negotiations for the next two years between workers' organisations and employers' organisations have been suspended. They can't get out. The aim of the wage negotiations is to maintain the competitiveness of our companies and also to ensure that the workers in our country receive a fair wage. The wage bill must be taken into account. Madam Secretary, your government has reinforced the wage bill. As a result of the tightening of the wage bill, negotiations have become almost impossible. It is almost impossible to create a wage increase for the workers. These changes are actually responsible for the current deadlock. Colleagues, the workers have already made considerable efforts. I refer to wage moderation, the index jump of 2%, which means that wages do not majority with prices, and higher invoices. Meanwhile, labour costs for employers were reduced by billions by the tax shift. So we can say that the labour cost handicap in our country is almost eliminated. Meanwhile, there is economic growth. In our neighbouring countries, wages are rising by 6%. Shareholders' profits increase by 270 %. However, employees receive only 0.8 % for the next two years, ridiculously little. Without the entanglement of the Peters Act, employees would have been able to count on an increase of 1.8 percent, more than double. Ladies and gentlemen, that law must therefore be amended. To that end, we have a legislative proposal ready. Our legislative proposal will ensure that employees are again assured that their wages are sufficient to pay their invoices. The urgent consideration of our proposal was approved in the Chamber last week and it is therefore on the agenda of the Social Affairs Committee on 6 February. Madam Minister, is the government in current affairs prepared to support our proposal together with Parliament?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u8	Madam Minister, this week the trade unions left the consultation on the new IPA. That's a unique thing. They also immediately announce a strike for February. That will be the first time, I believe, that there will be a ceasefire against a government which is actually no longer there. The elections are about to take place, and they really want to send a political signal against the policy of the previous government. It's not your government, it's the government in its previous composition. It is said that fraud software would have crept into the legislation, which would not allow for a higher wage margin. Maybe I should summarize exactly what that law did or does. In our country, labour costs were slightly different from what people get net at ten years' time, since 1996, 4,6% more expensive than labour costs in our neighbouring countries. This handicap is bad for our economy, bad for our employment, bad for the income of our social security, bad for the prosperity of this country. That's what changed the law. That law has built in a safety margin to ensure that wages in our country evolve along with those of our main trading partners. Not that of Southeast Asia, not that of Vietnam, but that of our main trading partners. This is important for maintaining our competitiveness. Should we therefore be blind to the problem of purchasing power? Of course not. Indeed, it is not easy for people today. Mrs Kitir says that billions of euros have been given to employers, but let us not forget that the tax shift is the biggest tax discount in 20 years for workers in our labour market. A person with a median income has 140 euros net per month. A year-end premium of EUR 1 600 net is added. There have been additional costs, we must be aware of that, but we must stop telling lies about what the tax shift is. That is the essential problem with the trade unions: they have sewed up their own supporters with PVDA language so that they do not get those own supporters anymore today. Madam Secretary, my questions are as follows. Will the government now receive the social partners? It seems to me the best thing they should do is sit down at the table again. The government is in ongoing business, and the adaptation of a law can no longer be done by the government. In short, what is the government's approach? What will the Prime Minister and the Minister of Work do once they get back from Davos?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Wilmès, two days ago, unfortunately, the trade unions decided to leave the consultation. It was only recently about the rise in wages and the welfare envelope. Probably no one here believes that there should be no increase in wages. There is already an index of 2 %. Of course, something can come up. That goes without saying. We have called for efforts from our employees. We have done so in order to maintain the competitiveness of our businesses and the economic prosperity of this country. We had a labour cost handicap, Mrs Kitir, since the 1996 law and even before. The jobs that were there before, they weren't there anymore. Thanks to many measures, 200 000 jobs have been created in the private sector. The tax shift of colleague Johan Van Overtveldt on employees' wages has worked. The need for an increase in wages and purchasing power is obvious. For our group, the welfare envelope is also important, because it concerns EUR 700 million, which is sometimes forgotten. That 700 million can be spent at 100 %. The previous government, the Di Rupo government, only spent 60% of it. If it depends on our group, then we would like to spend that envelope on the smallest pensions and, secondly, on the most vulnerable. Disability benefits are far too low for us. These two categories absolutely need to be increased. Mrs Wilmès, just as we did with the employment deal, with Jan Spooren, and with the reform of justice, with Sophie De Wit, we want to accept our responsibility to find a solution here in this House, both for the increase in purchasing power of workers and for the increase in the lowest pensions and disability benefits. We owe that to ourselves, because the Valentine's strike will not solve the problem. There'll be elections in four months. If the trade unions want to do politics, they must run for office. We reach out to the hand.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u10	Madam Minister, on Tuesday the wage negotiations broke off and a national strike was announced on 13 February. The wage margin of 0.8 % appears to be the biggest stumbling block, but there are also other problems: minimum wages, flexibility, end-of-life problems. I can only regret that there is no further negotiation today, because it is not just a legislative dossier. It's about the income of millions of people. There is no point in political profiling on these people's heads. All that matters is negotiating to strike a proper balance between purchasing power and competitiveness. I understand the views of both sides: the employers are concerned about their competitiveness and are not filled in the vacancies, while the workers see that the economy is thriving and they want purchasing power to increase proportionally. They are also concerned whether they will be able to maintain the pace of work until retirement and whether they will receive a sufficiently high pension. Fear, however, is a bad counselor. Politicians are expected to solve problems. We expect the social partners to do the same. We call on them to assume their responsibility and show leadership, because it does not help to stop the work and the conversation. The only way to go is to negotiate in dialogue. Only then can an agreement be reached on wages, work organisation and end-of-life problems. In addition, at least as important is this dossier linked to the welfare envelope, an envelope of EUR 700 million to be spent to raise the incomes of the most vulnerable groups. It would be irresponsible not to agree on this, hence our call for further negotiations. I ask the trade unions to come back to the negotiating table, because an agreement is of great importance, both for the use of the welfare envelope and for the wages of the workers, especially in the weak sectors. If there is no agreement, they will be the main victims of an excessive increase in purchasing power. The same applies to employers: there can be a derailment of wage costs in a free wage negotiation, including a call for reasonableness for them. After all, a study by SD Worx shows that more questions are being asked to circumvent the wage bill and thus apply a wage increase. The employers must therefore be aware of the aspirations of workers in terms of purchasing power, workable work and end-of-life problems. Madam Minister, what initiatives will you take to get the social partners back on the table?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u11	Madam Minister, we are proposing an increase of 0.8%, while so many profits are being made in Belgium. I really do not understand how one can only capture 0.8 %. A few months ago, we showed that in four years your government has transferred EUR 9 billion from wages to profits, 2% of GDP is simply transferred. 191 euros per employee was simply lost because of the measures you have taken. Mr Lachaert, you can say that that is PVDA language. However, that is not PVDA language, it is simply the language of the people. That's the same language; that's obvious. We can't have our wages set that way. I don't understand you, ladies and gentlemen of the Liberals. You keep talking about freedom. You want freedom: the individual must be able to negotiate alone; the law of supply and demand must be respected, etc. But when it comes to wages, this freedom disappears in favour of an imposed standard that provides for sanctions, including for employers who do not want to comply with this agreement. Where is this famous freedom, ladies and gentlemen, liberals? Give the sectors freedom of negotiation. Why do you go against that freedom with so much urge and pressure? I do not understand the Liberals: they are for the freedom to exploit, but they refuse it as far as wages are concerned. I would like them to explain why, for a moment, they are no longer in favour of freedom. Since Parliament, it is said, has the power – since you are in the business of day-to-day affairs, Madam Minister – we have introduced a bill to remove the 1996 Act. The latter is characterized by its unfair character. What measures do you think the German, French and Dutch leaders will take after the wage freeze in Belgium? Macron's going to block salaries, too. It will be the same in the Netherlands and Germany. This downward spiral will continue and pose a serious problem. As purchasing power declines, as the International Labour Organization has shown, people will consume less, so that the economic crisis will continue. So, Madam Minister, who, as a liberal, defends freedom as much, why don't you advocate it when you force employees to accept the 0.8% rate? I am very curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is of course essential for the government to ensure interprofessional consultation and the role of the social partners. The quality of social dialogue is and remains a constant focus for our government. In December 2018, the nuclear cabinet received the Group of Ten to jointly create a negotiating framework. For social dialogue there is complete autonomy in three essential dossiers. Firstly, the social partners are invited to set the wage margin for the years 2019-2020 autonomously and on the basis of the report of the Central Business Council. Secondly, the social partners are invited to reach an agreement on the allocation of the welfare envelope by 31 January 2019. You will recall, however, that during the Financial Act meeting in December 2018, I reiterated the government's wish to implement that envelope in 2019. Thirdly, the social partners are also invited to conclude framework agreements with a view to extending the traditional biennial collective agreements. Like you, we learned on Tuesday that interprofessional negotiations were suspended. The Government deplores this situation and calls for the responsibility of the social partners in order to achieve the two legitimate objectives which are, on the one hand, to guarantee an increase in wages, in addition to the indexation which remains acquired and, on the other hand, to guarantee the competitiveness of our enterprises in a country with an open economy and heavily dependent on its export capacity. The Central Economic Council states that the maximum margin is 0.8%, as provided for in the Act. In addition, the government has decided to allocate 100% of the welfare envelope, which is increased to 716 million in 2020. This will allow the lowest allowances to be revalued again since the government had already decided to grant 100% of the welfare envelope since it took office, contrary to what had been done under the previous legislature. Moreover, the tax shift, let us recall, has made it possible to raise the net wages of workers very significantly, particularly the low and the average wages. In view of the importance of a social agreement for workers, for businesses and for the raising of the lowest allowances, the Government calls on the social partners to continue the dialogue on wage negotiations, the allocation of the welfare envelope and the inter-professional agreement, within the framework of their autonomy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u13	Minister, I hear the government deplores the situation. But when the employer's bench despises workers' representatives, when the government since the beginning of this legislature blindly supports the demands of the employer's bench, it is not surprising the reaction of workers' representatives. It is unfair to put the fault of the situation on the workers' account. It's a first element. Second, I hear you and some of the stakeholders in the government parties. I was going to say the majority, but that's not it anymore. The theme of the margin should not be mixed with the theme of the wellness envelope. The allocation of the wellness envelope has nothing to do with the PIA. The bosses wanted to globalize things, but the problem with the allocation of the wellness envelope is the CNT. And the workers' representatives are waiting for the employer's bench. Thirdly, I understand that there is no openness on your part, and therefore on the part of the government parties, with regard to an adaptation, a derogation, an abolition of the 2017 law. To make an index jump, you had no scruples to derogate from this law. For social peace, for greater social justice, let us depart from this rule, as you did for index jump!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u14	Madam Secretary, I fear your answer will be insufficient to get the partners back to the table. If you want the social dialogue to have all the opportunities, the partners at the table must have the same weapons. You can now say that social dialogue is important to you; we have seen in the past that it is not. Social dialogue has now been suspended because of the percentage of wage increases that workers may still receive. The discussion is whether wages should increase by 0.8 % or 1.8 %. The social partners do not have the autonomy to decide for themselves what can or cannot be done. The problem is the tightening of the wage bill. That's what gets in the way of all the consultations. I call once again for the law to be adapted. You have a week to get the social partners back to the table with a social mediator. If that is not the case, I invite everyone who means it so well and who also thinks that the hardworking Fleming should receive a fair wage to support our proposal on 6 February.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u15	Madam Minister, quite a few hands are being drawn from the opposition to the government in current cases to take certain initiatives and also from the former coalition to continue with the policy on the table. I hope that you will also succeed in reaching out to the social partners and in creating something constructive. That can only be in everyone's interest. A boxing match in the trenches won't help anyone. I think the themes are clear. For us, two things must come out of IPA, and if they do not, they must be achieved through Parliament. Firstly, there is a maximum wage margin of 0.8 %. Use it to give net as much as possible to employees. If the gross amount does not contribute enough for the employee, make sure that there is a net increase for employees as much as possible. There are opportunities such as the profit premium or the non-recurrent result-oriented bonus in accordance with collective agreement 90. Secondly, Mrs Demir referred to the welfare envelope and raised the hand. Let us please ensure that the weakest people in society do not have to bear the consequences of blocking social dialogue. Leave the May elections to the candidates who will then be on the list of candidates; they will do politics. Let us ensure that social dialogue takes place in a different way and that it is not done politically. Let us ensure that the two target groups can move forward.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u16	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the answer. I hear the left-wing parties saying that the wage standard law should be reduced, but let us be very clear on that. This is very explicit about gross wage costs, the labour cost handicap, the competitiveness of our companies. I would like to underline that. I am talking here about the net increase for our employees. I believe that we can do anything there within the framework that is on the table today. Once again, I would like to reiterate the call to devote the wealth envelope mainly to the smallest pensions, to the people who have worked for a whole career of 30 to 40 years and who have to do it with a very small pension. Of course, we would prefer to have an agreement between the social partners, but we also know that if this does not work, as the trade unions have pointed out, the government is in principle in a position to do so. However, there is no government, which is why we want to take responsibility for all workers and for the most vulnerable in our society. I want to reach out once again today, as we have done with the work deal and with the reform of justice.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u17	Mr President, Minister, thank you for your reply. Social dialogue must indeed be given every opportunity. There's no alternative. However, the social partners must also seize these opportunities. My appeal is addressed to both workers and employers. Both be reasonable and continue to negotiate on a correct balance between purchasing power and competitiveness.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u18	Madam Secretary, I've seen you read all your speech. The speech was probably written by Mr Timmermans of the VBO. After all, he clearly determines the policy of this government. He has also become the head communicator of the government for this file. Mr Timmermans says: "The law is the law." That's what it's about. Colleagues, we need to replace that law. It's the law that's the problem. That law simply removes the freedom of negotiation in the sectors. We must return this freedom to the sectors. There should be free negotiation in all sectors. Colleagues, I therefore propose that the 1996 law should simply be replaced by another law. I feel that the workers today feel very good that the VBO has everything to say to this government. The trade unions are therefore right to go for a general strike on 13 February. This general strike of 13 February will give concrete expression to the feelings of the workers, namely that the power of the present government, whether in day-to-day affairs or not, is completely in the hands of the great boss. It is the FEB that dictates everything that is said here in terms of wages. That is why the workers, because they do not have a balance of forces here, will go on a general strike. They will have all the support of the PTB to succeed in this strike, in all sectors, in all three parts of the country, to push back the employers and this government in day-to-day business.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u19	Mr Minister, shorter, simpler and faster procedures cannot be opposed. Our party has always wanted to give priority to greater administrative simplification, and the government has also been working on it. One of the results was that Minister Geens, together with Parliament, relaxed the law on the first name change since 1 August. There is no need to apply to the FPS Justice Department, there is no need to make a decision from the minister anymore and there is no need for a substantial sum of money. So that's a good thing. One enters the town hall as Jef and one comes out as Piet, that's how simple it is today. Ten thousand Belgians already made use of the system in the last five months of 2018. The result is a change in the National Register and a new identity card. Apparently, however, the National Register is not linked to the ANG, the General National Data Bank. Let that be just the database the police use to check certain individuals. It has now been pointed out that in routine checks certain persons who wish to abuse that system can easily escape. Also when travelling abroad one could easily pass the control due to the first name change. We could also read in the newspaper that it raises problems in the granting of security clearances to professionals for whom there is a certain safety risk. Jef did have a criminal record, but the new Piet is registered with a blank criminal record. Mr Minister, is it true that the ANG is not linked to the National Register and that there are additional difficulties with people who want to abuse that good system? Will you be able to link up these two databases in the short term? Are you planning new initiatives to address the problem in the future?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u20	Before I give the floor to the Minister, I must say that there is too much noise. The questions and answers are inaudible in the long run. Ladies and gentlemen, if you have anything to say to other Members, I would ask you to do so in the corridors. Please do this in the hallways. Let's hear the minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u21	Mrs Gabriels, the question you have asked is part of a misidentified problem which has recently been mentioned. There is by no means a so-called data breach in the police databases, as was mentioned. There is, however, a problem of limiting the search of the police database. Our ICT service has confirmed that the police services have full access to the information in the National Register, including the data in the so-called history. This means that in case of a name change both the old name and the new name are accessible. The problem is therefore not access to information in the National Register. A thorough automation for the name and address changes between the Rijksregister and the police databases is on the planning of the first semester of 2019. It is due to end on 30 June 2019. This means that by that time the procedures for police officers will be simplified in such a way that possible errors by that period, i.e. from 1 July 2019, will be virtually impossible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u22	Thank you, Minister, for the answer. I also welcome the fact that you are being taken an initiative to link both databases. You report that the police do have access to the National Register. However, regular checks are often carried out only by name and first name. The police must therefore be more careful to check the National Register also for the history, which apparently does not always happen. If the link is automatic in the future, we can avoid any abuse of the proper procedure, which we certainly support, for the sake of clarity.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u23	Mr President, Minister, I would have liked to put this question to the Minister of Consumer Affairs, but he is defending the interests of consumers in Davos, I assume, and that is why you will be so good as to answer this question. You know that cash money is being pushed away more and more, both by companies and by the government. Cash money is replaced by all kinds of payment cards, credit cards, apps, digital payments via smartphones and the like. Under the guise of increasing security and efficiency, cash money is taken out of people's pockets. This time this happens very literally and it is replaced by all the other means of payment. In practice, we all know that this is for a number of reasons and that the real reason is that it saves companies a lot of money. This gives the government and the commercial mega companies concerned the opportunity to follow the consumer in everything they do and late, literally and figuratively. Big Brother is also on that plane watching you. Over the past few months and years, a number of parking companies in our country have banned the cash money. This is already the case in Aalst, Ghent and also in Antwerp for a few weeks. You can only pay your parking money there with cards. That is banal and maybe even trivial, but it shows a broader trend. However, the public authorities must play their role in monitoring what the legislator has determined, through, among other things, a European regulation of 2010, which explicitly states that "everyone must be able to use euro notes and coins in order to pay a debt." I know that Minister Peeters has already sent a letter from the VVSG on this matter in the past. However, there are again facts that indicate that there is hardly any follow-up. My question is therefore what will the government do to ensure that every citizen's right to use cash in all circumstances is guaranteed in this country?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u24	Mr President, Mr Dewinter, I am indeed giving you the answer that my colleague Mr Peeters has prepared. The legal payment power of the euro is regulated at European level in the regulation you are talking about. In principle, therefore, a debtor can pay his debt by using euro notes and euro coins. Of course, there are situations, such as e-commerce, where there is no personal contact between trader and customer and therefore no cash can be used for practical reasons. In addition, creditor and debtor may agree to pay with a transfer. As regards parking fees, at the end of 2017, Mr Peeters wrote to the cities and municipalities to remind them of the payment power of coins and notes and drew attention to that given when switching to electronic parking meters, especially for citizens who do not have a bank card or other electronic means of payment. The VVSG replied that the municipalities were authorised to lay down the method of payment themselves in their regulations. In doing so, the VVSG refers to the case-law of the Hoge Raad in the Netherlands (Hoge Raad in Nederland), thus Dutch case-law, which states that the fact that a parking fee cannot be paid with cash is not contrary to the European regulation. The problem is that the rules of the regulation cannot be sanctioned by criminal law, so that the Economic Inspectorate is not under any legal obligation to monitor compliance with them. The inspection cannot therefore take place. It is for a Belgian judge to establish his religion as to whether he, like the Dutch, believes that the regulation allows this.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u25	Minister, I can keep my reply quite clear and simple. As a representative of the people or as an individual citizen, i.e. the person concerned, we only have the opportunity to safeguard the use of cash money through a judge, including for parking meters and the like. The parking meters are just a symbol file, because it's about a lot more. For example, we see that companies are systematically trying to ban cash money, for reasons that we have already mentioned. I believe that, as a government, we must continue to safeguard every citizen's right to use cash money. Above all, let us not forget that not everyone has a payment card or wishes to use it. Cash money is the only alternative, especially for the weakest in our society and also for older people who like to use cash money. All other reasons, such as security and efficiency, must be subordinated to the fundamental right of every citizen to continue using cash money, including at vending machines.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u26	Minister, the judiciary has generally received little in time from the interest and attention of other powers. It is true that the financing of the judiciary has been under threat for several years. But under your majority and the current government, we have rarely heard so many protests from the magistrates, challenging the budgetary choices and the orientations of your judicial policy. Is it necessary to recall the statements of the first president of the Court of Cassation, Mr de Codt, who had been so far saying that under the influence of your policy, we were transforming our rule of law into a rogue state that is trading its function of rendering justice, forcing judges to judge an ever-increasing number of disputes with an increasingly small staff and a budget submitted, under your government, to a linear reduction of 10% between 2015 and 2019? Then it was the president of the 14th Correctional Chamber of the Brussels Court of Appeal who denounced an outlawed state. The Professional Union of Magistrates in 2017 denounced the shortage of magistrates by saying how this could lead to the paralysis of a large part of the courts. It is now the turn of the first president of the Mons Court of Appeal, Mr Morandini, to denounce the consequences of this situation in very concrete terms. He cites disputes that will take on such a backlog that the sense of justice is no longer met. Rarely have we experienced such disarray in the judicial world! Let's not even talk about the state of justice's real estate assets! So many years of neglect now lead to a painful finding that the judiciary is devalued in the eyes of the citizens, threatened in its very foundation to the point that for many people, recourse to justice seems derisory and ineffective. It's time to give the signal of the recovery. Together with others, we will table amendments at the appropriate time when the budget appropriations in routine cases are examined to allow for the filling of managers at 100% of the staff in both sitting and standing magistrates and registry offices. Minister, I would ask you to accept a simple and necessary step: to allow the publication of future vacancies in the judiciary at least one year in advance so that the proceedings can be completed at the time when the judges retire or leave their posts, so that it is not necessary to wait several months or years before replacing them, with unacceptable reductions in management and staffing.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u27	Mr Minister, I agree with what has just been said by Mr Maingain. It is not because of the fact that Parliament's political groups have repeatedly drawn attention to the disastrous state in which the judiciary is located. The last reminder of Mr.First President Morandini sounds like a failure of your government's policy, and also as a failure of your policy in this area. Under the pretext of making budgetary savings that would enable the country to recover, it has been possible to stop filling managers, not publishing vacancies and delaying them. It's budget tricks that make money. But in the meantime, what does that mean in the courts? We're closing some rooms. We no longer know how to work because the roofs fall down and everything is decrepit. Computerization doesn't follow. A series of offences are no longer prosecuted because they cannot be followed at the level of the public prosecutor's office or because the ad hoc chambers are not available to try them. Today, Minister, the judiciary is calling on Parliament. We are very honoured with this appeal, but how will we be able to respond to it if there is not a minimum of goodwill on the executive side? I understand that there are budgetary problems. Today we are in day-to-day business and are working with interim credit systems. Will you wait until Parliament, as Mr.Maingain has just said, eventually amend the second, third or fourth interim appropriations or will you get the government to submit substantial increases to the Justice budget? This would be necessary just to meet legal obligations! You're not being asked for anything else, minister. You have to respect the law. Today, you are asked to fill in the executives at 100% and not, by unilateral and sovereign decision, at 80% or 90%. You must ensure that publications are done early enough when they are known and that they are done immediately when they happen by incident. Perhaps you need to think about how to make the office of magistrate more attractive, so that open places attract enough candidates who are likely to have a career in the judiciary.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u28	Mr. Chair, Mr. Brotcorne, Mr. Maingain, thank you for your questions and share my concerns for the proper funding of justice. During this legislature, efforts were requested from all public services. It must be noted that, on the basis of the figures available from the SPF, the number of full-time equivalents within the Judicial Order has evolved from 10,805 to 10,373 units within this legislature. Compared to other public services, I think we are doing considerably better. Many modernization initiatives have been launched, including workload and computerization, which explains the decline in the number of staff in category D jobs. As far as the judiciary is concerned, the previous government has completed a 93.7 per cent filling of executives. At the moment, with advertised vacancies and announced departures, we hope for 94 per cent. In view of the departures and recruitments, there will be 2,454 judges out of a cadre of 2,611. For the time being, there are 152 publications, including 105 for the seat, 45 for the Public Prosecutor's Office and 2 for the Court of Cassation; 5 for the Mons Court of Appeal, including the first President Morandini. The headquarters will have 1,519 members, with a staff of 1,621, the Prosecutor's Office 891 out of 947 and the Court of Cassation 44 out of 43. The same concerns concern the judiciary. At the present time, the objective is to ensure a rate of 89.4 per cent, with the aim of having 6,532 clerks, secretaries of public prosecutors and administrative staff on a cadre of 7,309. There are 431 recruitment procedures in progress, of which 310 are for headquarters, 121 are for prosecutors and 9 are for the Court of Cassation. In addition, out-of-frame staff replacements are under way such as lawyers, criminologists, support services experts, bailiffs and other logistical staff. I give you all these dry figures to show you that we are not resting and that, from time to time, when five posts are under way for advisers at the Mons Court of Appeal, it is sad to hear such lamentations. If there is a need for a debate on the refinancing of the Judicial Order, it must be held in relation to the evolution of expenditure in all public sectors. However, I did not hear, in order to start this debate in concert with all the players of the Judicial Order that, as mentioned in the Committee on Justice in the proposal for the 2019 budget, the Judicial Order's expenditure is expected for the first time to reach one billion euros, or more precisely 1,013 billion, a net increase of 55 million compared to 2018. With you, I am aware that refinancing cannot be done in one shot. That is why I welcome your intentions to support my interventions according to the priorities that need to be met. In this case, in the context of the provisional twelfths, my services did not wait to request the redistribution of interdepartmental provisions in order to ensure the necessary replacement of all departures.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u29	Minister, this is not the first time we have asked you about the status of the judiciary. Each time, you provide us with statistics on call-for- candidature procedures. First of all, let me say that I am ready to resume the debate in committee. We can go back to history to find out when you launched the calls for applications for the various places declared vacant. You will see that there are abnormally long delays. I would add – of course, it will not please some – that there are Community and regional imbalances in the filling rates of managers. Indeed, there are imbalances. Yes, the sitting judiciary now has a higher filling rate in Flanders than in Wallonia, with a respective rate of 92% and 86%. The same applies to the prosecution. Perhaps you have made efforts to speed up proceedings for the benefit of certain jurisdictions, particularly in the north of the country. Perhaps you have been slower and less favourable for jurisdictions in the south of the country. These are the imbalances that have been observed repeatedly in statistics that we have been able to compile as we go, and which the magistrates themselves confirm by their statements. Let me think that if you had done the work you claim to have done today, the world of the judiciary would not be protesting unanimously.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u30	Mr Minister, once again, you are quoting some figures, but as a result we have the impression that you are not appreciating the disastrous situation in which the judicial organization is located. Better, by stating them, you admit that, in terms of the existing framework, these figures fall short of what the law requires you to do. In short, as Minister of Justice, you recognize that you work illegally, as you do not meet the legal framework. This framework was put in place at one time because it met the objective needs that had been assessed. Therefore, there is no reason, other than those of a budgetary nature which you invoke as is the case in other public services, to justify that it has not been completed. Once again, this is proof of the disconnection of the public services. Among them, one of them is particularly targeted, which is one of the nation's constitutional powers, namely the judiciary. It is important that you understand how urgent it is to find ways of financing it. Less than an hour ago there was a meeting of the Justice Commission, Minister. As members of the opposition, we have shown openness. We have also found that the old majority can rebuff to agree on some texts. Therefore, I hope that, among the priorities that you have wished to support, refinancing is at the top of the list.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u31	Mr.President, Minister, on August 21, 2018, I was asking you a written question about potential conflicts of interest in your office. In particular, I asked how many members of your firm had been in situations of potential conflict of interest, what were the names of these individuals, their function, and the companies or lobbies they had met. You normally had to answer within 20 business days. Today, I still do not have an answer to this question. When I read the newspaper Het Laatste Nieuws, I understand that you did not respond. It's about "Pharma Files," and your firm is at the heart of the scandal. Indeed, there is within your firm a certain Bart Vermeulen who was chief economist at pharma.be, the lobby of the drug. After that, he was hired by UCB, a large Belgian pharmaceutical company that belongs to three wealthy Belgian families (Janssen-Solvay-Boël). He then arrived in your firm where he is responsible for pharmaceutical policy. What a coincidence! That's what we call "turning doors." We're going from the private to the public and from the public to the private. In your office, the doors turn in both directions because there is also another case: that of Ellen Vanhaeren who has a key function in your office because, when social security refuses to pay back a medicine, it is she, within your firm that negotiates with pharmaceutical companies, during secret negotiations, to say that we will still refund the medicine. In particular, there is a hepatitis C medicine for which you and your firm have granted the refund. It costs 25 000 euros per patient in Belgium as a result of your visa. In India, it costs 300 euros per patient! The same member of your firm also negotiated for Revlimid, a drug from the US multinational Celgene that was prosecuted in the United States for price fraud, especially for the Revlimid that Ellen Vanhaeren negotiated. We learn that a few months ago, this person left your office to join a multinational drug company. Which one? It is precisely Celgene with whom she negotiated these prices and this refund. Minister, do you find it normal that there are such conflicts of interest? Why didn't you answer my August written question about conflicts of interest in your firm? Finally, when you learned that your collaborator had been engaged by a multinational company with which she had negotiated, did you initiate an investigation into all the negotiations she had conducted with various multinational drug companies?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u32	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, market manipulation, abuse of European regulation, a medicine that rises from EUR 38 to EUR 12 750, patients without medicine, the Solidarity Fund plundered by one producer, dozens of products that cost a multitude of the price they could make... Then I haven't talked about conflict of interest and secret deals, the price agreements with the pharmaceutical sector that nobody knows about. You, Madam Secretary, have, in a scandalous way, extended and abused this option, even for products with no proven added value. Today we read that your main drug consultant is now working for a large pharmaceutical company. No one will blame us if we have any questions about this, especially if we know that your way of working has already cost the health insurance EUR 600 million; 600 million, colleagues, to the pharmaceutical industry, while the hospitals in this country go in red and doctors keep the rates less and less because of your savings, Madam Secretary. Closed bags for patients and hospitals, but you will always find something extra for the pharmaceutical sector. We have asked for it several times and we have put it to the vote here a number of times, on which you had it voted. I ask you again and we will continue to do so again and again: what will you do to recover that 600 million from the pharmaceutical sector?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u33	Mr President, Madam Minister, on the same subject, I want to broaden the questions. What interests me and my group, beyond all that has just been mentioned, is also the patient, I believe, who must be at the centre of our health care concerns. The patient does not escape what has been highlighted in the press in recent days, Madam Minister, namely your disastrous policy on medicines. I have the feeling that you have put this policy in hand, since the beginning of this legislature, with the pharmaceutical industry. I'll take three excerpts from the articles. A first article recently explains that treatment for a deadly genetic disease whose name I am avoiding has increased 335 times in ten years from 38 euros to 12,750 euros! To treat himself today in Belgium, I find this completely unacceptable! The second daily example in the media is the pharmacists who display their ill-being at the windows of their pharmacies. They say that for months they can no longer provide patients with important medicines that these women and men need for cancer treatments, for heart problems, for psychiatric problems: eight hundred medicines are missing today! This is indeed extremely challenging. What have you done so far to prevent this situation, minister? You have increased many very important medicines for more than 40 million euros from the household pocket! We have just alluded to it, you have secretly negotiated these agreements with the pharmaceutical sector to put on the market very expensive medicines, at exorbitant prices, with a drug budget slipping of 500 million! Finally, you suggested that pharmacists find an alternative medication in case of a shortage. Personally, I have a few fears. Finally, but that is not the essence of my remarks, I will listen very carefully to you too, Madam Minister, about this co-worker who was dealing precisely with the drug policy in your office and who has just moved into a major multinational firm. Minister, I have only one question. So do the interests of the pharmaceutical industry really take precedence over the interests of the patient?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u34	Madam Secretary, your policy is to get the medicines to the patient as soon as possible. We support that policy, but you must also recognise that there is a structural budget deficit. We don't get the drug bill paid. We have to recognise that the current model runs into its limits, and you do. However, it is about people and their health, and that is not something that is simply taken lightly. Neither you nor we, but the pharmaceutical lobby has a little less difficulty with that. It is well known that the pharmaceutical lobby is a well-oiled money machine. When we read this week's Farma Files, we see that the pharmaceutical lobby is represented in the Committee on Medicinal Products Meeting (CTG). Moreover, the Vice-President of that committee would also be a shareholder of a number of pharmaceutical companies. The question can be asked as to whether this is still an independent body. Of course, they also work with doctors-influencers. They would even pay up to EUR 150,000 a year. It's supposed to be for consultancy and lectures. These must be very special readings. I think it is even worse that we suddenly put old medicines in a new jacket and register them as a new medicine, with a new name and a higher price. The government and the patient will pay for that. The worst thing about this is the problem of the orphan drugs that exist for rare diseases, where emotional blackmail is just being committed, because the government is going along with it and will pay for it. This problem is certainly not new, Madam Minister, but we must be clear: social security does not serve the cash register of the pharmaceutical industry. She needs to be there to help the patients. The limits have indeed been reached. You no longer have much time, Madam Minister, but what measures will you take in the near future?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your questions. Mr Frédéric, thank you for talking about the "patient", because others did not say that word. First of all, let's get back to the essence, the patient. In recent days, I have read many proposals on drug policy. Let me summarize them. If I pay back a drug, I'll give in to the pharmaceutical lobby, and if I don't pay it back, I'll be a human being and leave the patient in the cold. That's a good summary of your one-liners and your tweets. Many people think that we can have our own policy in Belgium, so that all the problems are solved. That sounds good. Belgium must not give in to the pharmaceutical lobby, pharmaceutical companies must give up their licences and we will then all produce it cheaper. If you believe that, then you really don't know anything about the sector. In fact, the vast majority of these well-meant proposals would just have a reverse effect and prevent our patients from getting treatment. What people seem to forget is the acceleration we have done to bring new medicines to the patient faster. You have given the example of hepatitis C. Hepatitis C is a disease that we can cure. Look at the costs, but also look at the reduction of social costs. Those people stay healthy and can stay at work. Maybe that's less important to you than it is to them. The same applies to HIV and AIDS, to some cancer patients and to people with rare muscle disease. More and more life, but also more quality of life thanks to the presence of a strong pharmaceutical industry in our country. Mrs Wouters, it is true that the model is colliding with its limits. I have said this several times, and I have already spoken about this at the WTO and in Europe. We have already implemented several reforms and we must continue to work on them. Mrs Jiroflée, you are talking about the status of the orphan medicinal product in order to make money out of it and about the Italian companies that are champions in it. I agree with you that this is absolutely impossible, but it is about the fact that the EEA, the European Medicines Agency, a medicine that was over 60 years old, that is to say, outside of licence, outside patent, has given the status of orphan medicine. That's why it had ten years of protection. The Italian firm, which still has mafia practices, bought up all the firms and then took all the licences on the raw materials. We went all the way to China to try to buy those raw materials. I have raised this problem twice at EPSCO, and the Federal Agency for Medicines and Health Products has raised it with the European Medicines Agency, but there is no solution at the moment. I have started discussions with ministers from other countries to act together, so that pressure is exerted on the European authorities. These are not words in the air. As you know, I have set up the BeneluxA system, in which negotiations are taking place between Belgium, the Netherlands, the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Austria and Ireland, with a view to achieving together a sustainable policy in the field of medicinal products intended to treat patients with orphan diseases. This partnership is well known to the sector. We are also looking at what we can do in our country. There is talk of majestic preparations by a pharmacist. I included this measure in the multiannual framework that we agreed with the pharmacists. Whoever thinks majestic preparations are possible for anything, I must disappoint. It is known that pharmacists are already having difficulty making majestic preparations of normal medicines. There are also other requirements for magistral preparations of orphan medicinal products. Firstly, we must be able to obtain the raw material. Secondly, we must also have the techniques, the technology and the expertise to do so. It is sometimes very complex formulas. There is also no solution for living materials that are absorbed in medication. This also applies to cellular and gene therapies. The FAGG is working on a quality framework for this. How does the Commission work on medicines, which has already been mentioned a great deal? A company that wants to put a drug on the market here is applying to the CTG. In the CTG there are health insurance funds, a number of experts and a number of academics. They decide on the scientific evidence and that process is going through. Only if the CTG considers that the medicinal product should be covered by Article 81 will I be allowed to negotiate. I sent back 14 CTG decisions to apply Article 81 last year. The CTG has to take responsibility and do its job. I've motivated that very well. So I do not want to allow all medicines through Article 81. In connection with my associate, she's a top expert in the matter. She was seconded from the government. She switched to the pharmaceutical industry, which recruited her, because she herself made 300 million in savings in the pharmaceutical industry last year. It has therefore been considered that it is better to be on the side of industry than on the other side. A witch hunt is now being organized in front of my associates. I guarantee the quality of my staff and will not accept a milk farmer to define my pharmaceutical policy.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u36	Minister, it's amazing! You justify the conflict of interest. You're making a plea in favor of pharmaceutical companies. You are perfectly in your role. Unfortunately, you are far from the only one who practices conflict of interest within this government. Since 2014, there have been multiple conflicts of interest. Didier Reynders has as chief of staff an administrator of the Ackermans & van Haaren holding company. Minister Marghem has had several executives of Electrobel in her office. Former minister Steven Vandeput had a collaborator who left Lockheed Martin, the manufacturer of the F-35. MM. Jambon and Geens are linked to the diamond sector. And where is the Prime Minister and two of his deputy prime ministers today? They are in Davos, at the grandma of great capital. That is the reality of this government! That is the reality of the capitalist system! We're dealing with a government that's made up of big-capital lobbies!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u37	The model is colliding with its limits. I fully agree with that, Madam Secretary. But it's your job to find solutions. We have made a number of proposals from the opposition with our pill plan, but you continue with non-transparent agreements, and whatever you may claim, also for those products that do not add value. In conclusion, after reporting on the Farma Files, social security is being scammed at full speed by the pharmaceutical industry and the government allows it to operate. If sick people stay at home too long, you are there as the chickens to take the word "abuse" in their mouths and to put them to work. Two sizes and two weights. Once more double standards and two weights, for five years now, Madam Minister!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u38	Minister, I will speak briefly on this subject. Indeed, I repeat, what interests me in the reflection of this noon is the patient. Your answer is obviously not satisfactory. We need to think about another drug policy, where the interest of patients would be the highest priority. Such a policy would not give priority to the interests of the pharmaceutical industry. Such a policy creates conditions for the funding of research, and above all, makes medicines accessible to all, including the weakest among us. I have the feeling, minister, that this has never really been your concern, nor indeed that of your government and your former majority waiting for renewal. I don't want to customize the debate. It's not the interest of the patients you care about. Madam Minister, you are driving only for the pharmaceutical industry, and I deeply regret that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u39	Madam Secretary, thank you for your reply. The most important thing is that the patient is central. Whatever discussion we have here, it's about the patient who needs help and who shouldn't be put in the bag. I therefore think that the proposal from the pharmacists is a good idea. You said it was hard, but we have to do everything we can. The raw materials should be included on the list for reimbursement so that both the patient and the State pay a fair price. That's important. After all, we all know that these pharmacists are not shoppers. They are perfectly trained to make majestic preparations. You yourself say that we may need to make even greater efforts in the training of pharmacists. We urgently need a solution in this story. I'm afraid there's gonna be a shutdown from part of our social security. Of this, only one person will suffer, namely the patient. Of course, we cannot tolerate that. The gray culture of the pharmaceutical lobby runs out of spigates and knows no boundaries. We have to intervene, because the state can't keep playing donkey. Let's bet on the patient.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u40	Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, in 1988 Etienne Vermeersch wrote the book The Eyes of the Panda. It was about the environmental problem, from a philosophical point of view. I was a student back then. He taught me later, too. Today he died. Today, on a school day, 35 000 students also went out on the streets. First they were 3 000, then 14 000, now with 35 000 young people. They have only one question, a demand for more commitment and a clear climate ambition from the political point of view. If that question is not answered, they will come back. Rightly so, because our country does not make any of its commitments today. We do not achieve any of the climate objectives we have set ourselves in Paris; we do not achieve any of them in terms of renewable energy, not in terms of CO2 emissions, not in terms of energy saving. The voice that young people are making today, and which they will continue to make, is incredibly important. Apparently, it's the only way to be taken seriously. When we were 75 000 in December, at the first climate demonstration, their voices were not heard. About a day later, you boarded the plane almost directly from the demonstration, to the Katowice climate summit, where it appeared that our country did not support the ambitious climate plans that were under way there. Ladies and gentlemen, the real climate skippers are in the government. In recent years, they have missed a chance to take responsibility. The ecorealists, these are the young people today, those are all those people who make their voices heard and come out on the street for more ambition. On Sunday they will be numerous. We'll go with them. It's very simple. It's not a debate anymore. We know that climate change is a fact. We know that the solutions are there. We know that the cost of doing nothing goes way beyond the cost of intervention. It is quite clear what we must do. Mr Van Hecke said yesterday: invest in public transport, invest in renewable energy, invest in a circular economy. It provides jobs and allows us to save the climate. It's an absolute win-win situation. Madam Secretary, 2019 must be the year of the turnaround. That is what the young people, the Green Group, have asked you and other governments to do. Will you finally take action?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u41	Mr President, Madam Minister, this morning, 35,000 young people marched through the streets of Brussels, Liège and other places to express their concern for their climate future. I'm also worried about the planet I'll leave to my children. These are young adults who challenge me every day and question me about it. But we here, who are we and what are we doing? Those who sit on the benches of the government have told us a lot about climate coaches in recent days, about a My2050 site. I'm not sure it's going to blow at them. On the other hand, what everyone is holding back – they tell me about it – is the inexplicable step that was taken when the European directives on renewable energy and energy efficiency had to be voted on. This morning, we had a small step aside, a mea culpa which, once again, came late, as often when it comes to the environment. On the parliamentary side, let us recall, a month ago, we voted on a resolution calling on Belgium to join the most ambitious countries and to increase our greenhouse gas emission reduction targets. Minister, since then, what actions have been put in place in response to this resolution? In the same place, a month ago, the Prime Minister pleaded for a climate emergency plan. He was opening the doors. But nothing, no action in a month. I don't think anyone here is fooled. In any case, the demonstrators who are on the street are not. It is not a few words lying on paper that will save the climate. What is urgently needed is a road map with concrete measures that will allow us to work together towards these ambitions that we have set ourselves. This involves a series of challenges to specific things (company cars, enhanced investments in SNCB, in short circuits, and I'm moving on). Let us not look at this: even if our country today reduced its greenhouse gas emissions by 100 per cent, it would remain a drop of water worldwide. But we must lead by example and have much more concrete ambitions. In no case should this model, if specified, be that of increasing inequality. The aim is not to maintain the quality of life of those who are already most favoured by weighing the weight on the rest of the population. Madam Minister, there's work to be done. What is your program for the remaining three months?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u42	Minister, "we're warmer than the climate! We're warmer than the climate!" Did you hear that, minister? There were 35,000 people telling us that you didn't hear, that you didn't hear anything they had to say. No, you don't listen to what they have to say! They were warm for the climate today, with 35 000 in the streets. Last week there were 12 500 of them. They came to tell you, Madam Secretary, that your climate coaches are no solution at all. They really took as an offence your proposal to send climate coaches, minister. [[...]] You will see: the fight is not yet over! Minister, the ASBL you work with, GoodPlanet Belgium, will send climate coaches to schools. Madam Secretary of State works with the GoodPlanet Belgium vzw. Who are the partners with which the Liberal Minister of Climate works? I'll quote them from you. First of all, Luminus, which owns nuclear power plants in France – power plants that are ruining our planet! Then comes AXA Belgium, the banking world that earns money in fossil fuels. Then there's Ikea. Ah! The big multinationals that destroy the forests. Is that what your partners are doing, Minister? Wait because I'm coming with the cherries on the cake! It's not over yet! Another partner is Umicore, the company that totally polluted Hoboken. It is all multinationals that think only of money and destroy our planet. These are the partners of GoodPlanet Belgium, which today teaches the climate coaches that visit our schools. This is a disgrace, colleagues! That's why the kids are on the streets. They feel you're cooperating with the multinationals. This morning, Madam Minister, you were invited by the RTBF. A young girl asked you a question: "What are you going to do about big fish? It's always because of the citizens, the little people. You have to come with a gourd to school, etc." What the minister said was important, Mr. Chair. Indeed, she called on young people to engage with businesses to help them become more sustainable. You recalled that the incentives for multinationals to make efforts existed and then cited the example of the CO2 tax. This measure, which came into force five or ten years ago, does not work.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u43	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u44	That is why we are only entitled to a 1% reduction in CO2, because this liberal market and that tax that we are going to vote here to make workers pay do not work. We now need binding standards. A question is asked of you by the youth, Madam Minister. Is there going to be a climate bill? Will a climate law be passed to impose standards, not to negotiate, but to apply in companies? I am very curious to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u45	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this morning I met thousands of young people who were demonstrating for the climate in the streets of Brussels. Minister, you must know that these young people talk a lot about you, but unfortunately not in good. Actually, they're sick of excuses. What they're waiting for is strong action. So it's time to stop explaining to them that you work a lot, but they don't understand very well. It doesn't take anymore! These young people don't want a climate coach in their school, they want a climate law. Maybe it's in your government that we need a climate coach. These young people also do not want discussions with businesses. What they expect is that your government will not allow multinationals to produce plastic or CO2 in a way that is unnecessary for growth at any cost. You absolutely have to force them to invest in alternatives, if you want things to change. Minister, how do you intend to respond to the concerns of these thousands of young people so that they can return to class with a serene spirit and prevent them from continuing to demonstrate every week for months? I heard you on the radio this morning at last talking about the establishment of a climate law. Were these words in the air or were they a real commitment?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, like you, I have had the opportunity to meet the growing numbers of young people on the streets. The meeting I had with them yesterday at my office was a source of specific information. Indeed, beyond what they can hear about what the federal and regional governments are doing in this country, they want, for their future, one or more strong actions that show that we are radically focused on the solution that will allow them to look at a peaceful future. It is for this reason that the regional ministers and I in Katowice decided to meet very closely in order to improve climate governance and the convergence of our policies. Indeed, as you pointed out in your speeches, there has been a negative vote by Belgium on the Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Directive. Thus, together with Ms. Fremault, President of the National Climate Commission, we decided to meet on a regular basis. On the one hand, we want to work together to develop a more effective and transparent governance framework. On the other hand, we want to think about an inter-federal climate agency and a climate law. Within the framework of the National Climate Commission, the forum in which we work, this inter-federal climate law would replace the cooperation agreement of 2002, which clearly needs to be reformed. Indeed, this cooperation agreement shows that climate governance is not enough. I come to Mr. Hedebouw's assertions. The latter had begun his intervention well and had declined a little towards the end. Mr Hedebouw, the companies you quote are companies that participate, as you said, in the ETS market. They are penalized in this market by a significant increase in the price of the tonne of CO2 which has recently increased from €5 to €25. The money raised, since there is exchange on the European stock exchange, allows the government of that country to finance climate policies, particularly in the regions, with a view to improving energy efficiency and greening transport. It is therefore very important to combine all forces in the fight against global warming. On your part, I certainly am not surprised, but I am surprised that sometimes there are things that should be worked on in a converging way. I want to talk not only about the policies on the different floors of this country, about the parliamentarians and the politicians involved in the executive, with the interparliamentary resolution on the climate that was voted on on 20 December, but also about the European level. It is also necessary to add the companies themselves which participate, with their own financial leverage, in various actions, in particular in the greening of energy production. On the one hand, the companies you mentioned have a very favourable quota and assessment of the reconfiguration of their production processes. On the other hand, some are also carriers of clean energy production facilities. It therefore seems important and consistent to me that we can all work together. This is the aim of the Interfederal Climate Agency, whose structure will be intended to be permanent. It will give more transparency to a governance that will be more mathematical and transcend different governments, in order to respond to the climate emergency.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u47	Madam Secretary, I have listened very carefully. I hear what I have actually heard for a long time: many words, promises, references to working groups, but still no timing, no hard commitment. Thirty-five thousand young people came out today. They have no message of excuses every time; they have no message of reproach, every time, that they do not accept their responsibility, because they are on the streets instead of sitting on the school benches. They need to hear from the cynics on the right, who are trying to deny global warming for as long as possible. They do not need paternalism. They don't need words. They need action. They are constructive, positive. They accept their responsibility, but all they get is wind; wind in the form of words and the wind in the front. I repeat what I see there and what is so little here: that it is the feeling, not the feeling of now or never, but the feeling it is now or now! There's no alternative. There is no planet B. On Sunday we will stand, Madam Minister, next to them, again, until the sense of urgency not only penetrates the governments, but also in the hemisphere, until everyone here together with us continues to ask the same questions and keep knocking on the same nail: a climate law, still this legislature. That is also our responsibility and we take it on board. That is the only answer we can give to young people with our heads held high. For that, I expect more and more support from all of you every week.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u48	Minister, I met with young people at today's demonstration. On December 3, I marched with more than 75,000 demonstrators. They don't want promises anymore, they want actions. I asked you what your program was. You told me about strong stock. Which ones? How? How long? I'm still waiting. You told me about a governance framework, but is it strong enough to succeed? Parliament voted in favour of a number of recommendations in the resolution. Minister, I'm asking you what you've been implementing for a month. You are bound by a performance obligation within three months. I'm waiting for you to explain clearly what you're going to propose.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u49	Minister, you said this morning on the radio that we were completely next to the plate for what happened in Katowice. You didn't say that when you came back from Poland, but you changed your mind because of the pressure on the street. You're right, 'cause you've totally screwed up in Katowice. This pressure will continue in the coming weeks, otherwise you won't do anything. Why? Because you're just gonna go with all the multinationals. What are you telling us today? You say that the multinationals behind your climate coaches already have to pay a lot of CO2 allowances. That means they're already bad students and they're going to help you build the coaching. That's just crazy. Madam Minister, I did my ten years challenge with my bus ticket. Young people want solutions and realize that public transport is increasingly expensive. Do you know how much a bus ticket cost ten years ago? Whether it's De Lijn, STIB or TEC, do you know how much it was ten years ago? 1.2 euros. Do you know how much that costs today? 3 euros and that in ten years time. That's the ten years challenge. That's the problem. Young people want clear solutions and political will can do something about this. That's why they want free public transport. Free public transport is a practical solution to environmental problems. There are concrete solutions, Minister. Stop your inertia and take charge of the real problems that these 300 multinationals represent, which are responsible for 40% of the production of CO2 in Belgium. Let's make them pay and not us!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u50	Madam Minister, thank you for your answers, which are definitely unsatisfactory with regard to the questions I have asked you. One of the questions that struck me most this morning is that of young people saying: "You, you will die of old age and we, if we do nothing, we will die of climate change". I think that's right and they have extreme lucidity. In the face of this one, I think your government is not up to it. We must take our responsibilities horizontally, on all floors of the House Belgium and in all materials. You mentioned company cars this morning. Action must be taken in that regard. For the ban on pesticides and many other materials, we need to tackle climate change in a cross-cutting way. We must also set an example and position ourselves as a leader on the international stage. We have the means to do so as a rich country. We must shoulder our responsibilities to those who live elsewhere and to future generations.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u51	The response will be provided by the Minister of Energy, Environment and Sustainable Development.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u52	Mr President, Madam Minister, this is the first time that I have asked you a question of topicality. In May 2018, Nicolas Maduro was re-elected head of Venezuela with almost 67% of the vote, despite strong abstention and a report of irregularities by the opposition. On 10 January 2019, the President took office for a second term, bringing criticism from Europeans, Washington and neighbouring countries. After months of political protests and violence, the President of the Chamber Juan Guaidó self-proclaimed as interim president. What is the constitutional or legal basis for this change of authority at the head of State? Is the opposition considered more credible despite its deep divisions? Is it capable of taking strong measures (inflation control, security) to restore serenity throughout the country? Minister, a number of states – and this shows the difficulty of this issue and the security issues – such as North America (Canada) and the states of South America (Argentina, Chile, Colombia, Guatemala, Panama, etc.) supported and recognized this new President-in-Office. What is the attitude of European countries? Will there be a consultation for a common response? I believe that the response of the European States differs from the position developed by the countries of North and South America. Are the possible and rapid organization of new elections which would be deemed credible but which would also be respectful of the will of the people, of the democratic will of the Venezuelan people? Minister, former President Maduro had also turned to Russia and China. I don't know if he made contact with the PTB. Russia and China have developed a different attitude from that of the United States. These countries are calling for Venezuela not to become a part of foreign policy failures. Does not the current political change offer an opportunity to reintroduce Venezuela into the sphere of influence of liberal democracies in the broad sense?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u53	Mr President, honourable Member, I thank you for your question, which shows a very fine knowledge of the situation in Venezuela. As you know, I have the honour to reply to you – this is a first – since Deputy Prime Minister Didier Reynders is currently in New York where he participates in several debates in the Security Council. As regards the situation in Venezuela, which is extremely delicate but which is also likely to evolve very quickly in the coming hours and days, I refer first of all, if I may, to the European Union statement made last night. Belgium fully supports the messages contained in this declaration, in particular the call for the immediate launch of a political process leading to free and credible elections. The excessive violence used by the security forces against the population must be condemned. It is unacceptable. We also call, as Belgium, for the regime to guarantee the rights and security of the members of the National Assembly, and in particular of its President, Juan Guaidó, to be implemented. As the situation in Venezuela undermines the stability of the entire region – as you have illustrated amply in your question – I would like to say that Belgium is in favour of a debate in the Security Council very shortly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u54	Minister, it is true that this issue is coming to the end of the sitting, but it does not take away the importance of this issue, which can take on a truly serious conflictal dimension, because it can involve different states. For the approximately 31 million Venezuelan citizens, the stakes are extremely important. I recall that in 2017, a million Venezuelans left the country in one year, fleeing famine, violence, repression, so much so that in August 2018, Peru had to decree a state of emergency in three of its provinces because there were more than 4,200 immigrants a day. I think it is in our interest to learn from the policy that has been carried out in Venezuela and also to draw the consequences for the political choices that we make. Finally, as far as we are concerned and as far as this is concerned, I stress the importance of having a seat on the Security Council. There, we can mark the difference and act on a matter of such importance. I am pleased that our Minister, Mr. Reynders, has already been working on this position in the Security Council. I am also pleased, given that our country has adopted the United Nations Pact, that we in this United Nations Assembly have all the authority to make our word heard. Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u55	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday I read the daily Metro while I was on the train. I almost fell off my seat when I learned that the SNCB refused to grant green tickets (5 euros round-trip) to the participants of this Sunday's major climate event. On the other hand, on the SNCB website, I was able to see that it offered advantageous rates to go to the Auto Show! This morning, it was said and repeated, 35,000 students demonstrated in the streets of Brussels. Many of them came from Wallonia. This shows that the movement extends far beyond Brussels and Flanders. Moreover, it was once again the SNCB which played the troubles, by not providing additional seats on the trains, while it was extremely easy to predict this increase in the number of passengers wishing to go to the demonstration. Something's bothering me in this case. I do not understand why SNCB is not taking the opportunity to become a true climate ally, but it is part of the solution. Minister, we realized that Mrs Marghem was not capable of much. I'm asking you if you're little things. Are you going to ask SNCB to review its copy and offer the green tickets to the demonstrators on Sunday?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u56	Mrs Schlitz, as you know, SNCB had decided to propose a green ticket so that citizens could travel to Brussels on 2 December in order to participate in the Marche pour le climat, in the context of the major COP24 international conference which opened in Poland on that date. At the same time, SNCB wanted to be part of this very large-scale event, as Belgium's leading player in mobility, which works every day for the environment by offering green and sustainable mobility. Indeed, rail travel consumes 18 times less carbon than the car. The SNCB reported yesterday on Sunday's demonstration. In her communication, she highlighted the different advantageous pricing options already available for people who want to go to Brussels this Sunday: weekend tickets allow 50% discount on the normal rate. The Go Pass for young people and the Rail Pass also offer a very cheap alternative to the standard ticket. SNCB therefore decided not to offer special tickets for Sunday, as did STIB. This is an operational decision of SNCB. Colleagues had submitted a request to me which I had relayed to SNCB. This is an operational decision of its own, and I intend to respect it, since SNCB is an autonomous public undertaking. I stress this last point. We cannot, on the one hand, ask, as we often hear in committee in this Parliament, that politics avoid interfering with the daily operational decisions of the company, and on the other hand, that politics impose purely operational decisions in other situations. It should also be noted that, unlike information that is circulating, for the car show, it is a B-excursion. A B-excursion is a commercial agreement between a commercial company and SNCB, where everyone agrees to lower the normal rate by 30%. Here, the normal ticket can be reduced by 50% since it's the weekend. I would also like to remind you that SNCB will strengthen its train offer, but very clever, which can tell me here how many thousands of people there will be on Sunday. If you have a number to quote, I'd be very interested. The supply of trains will be significantly increased, the SNCB will add trains, and single-storey trains will be replaced by double-deck trains, thus offering an additional 50,000 seats. The information is already available today at the various stations. I really encourage each other to learn about tariff offers, because very often people who travel by train ignore them, even outside the framework of such events.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u57	Minister, I am obviously disappointed with your answer. I don't know if you realize that, but a weekend ticket from Liège, to take a random example, costs 15.50 euros. Students, people who benefit from integration income, and even a large part of the population can't afford to pay so much money to send you strong signals for you to do your job! The signal that SNCB sends is very bad. I won't go any further.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u58	End of oral questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u59	In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 22 November 2018, a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Official Journal of 14 December 2018 for the mandates of second alternate of the Dutch-speaking members of the Standing Committee on Police Supervision. In accordance with the decision of the plenary session of 22 November 2018, a call for candidates was published in the Belgian Monitor of 14 December 2018 for the terms of second alternate of the Dutch-speaking members of the Standing Committee for the Control of Police Services. No applications were submitted. No applications were submitted. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 23 January 2019, I propose that you publish a second appeal to candidates in the Belgian Official Journal for the mandates of second alternate of the Dutch-speaking members of the P Committee. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 23 January 2019, I propose that you publish in the Belgian Moniteur a second call for candidates for the second alternate term of the Dutch-speaking members of the P Committee. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u60	At the request of the authors, I propose the legislative proposal (Mr Werner Janssen and Mrs Rita Gantois) amending the Act of 28 July 1981 approving the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora and its Annexes, drawn up at Washington on 3 March 1973, and amending the Convention, adopted at Bonn on 22 June 1979 and the Royal Decree of 9 April 2003 on the protection of species of wild fauna and flora by regulating trade therein, No. 3202/1, refer to the Committee on Business, Science Policy, Education, the national scientific and cultural institutions, the Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and Agriculture. At the request of the authors, I propose that you refer to the Committee on the Economy, Scientific Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, the Middle Classes and Agriculture the bill (Mr Werner Janssen and Mrs Rita Gantois) amending the Act of 28 July 1981 approving the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora and the Annexes, done at Washington on 3 March 1973, as well as the Amendment to the Convention, adopted at Bonn on 22 June 1979 and the Royal Decree of 9 April 2003 on the protection of species of wild fauna and flora by controlling their trade, No. 3202/1. This bill was sent to the Committee for Business, Science Policy, Education, the national scientific and cultural institutions, the Middle Classes and Agriculture on 28 June 2018. This bill was referred on 28 June 2018 to the Committee on the Economy, Scientific Policy, Education, National Scientific and Cultural Institutions, Middle Classes and Agriculture. At the request of the above committee, the bill was sent to the Committee for Health, the Environment and Social Renewal on 20 September 2018. At the request of the above-mentioned commission the bill had been referred on 20 September 2018 to the Commission of Public Health, the Environment and the Renewal of the Society. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u61	In the last distributed agenda you will find a list of proposals for which consideration has been requested. You have taken note of the list of proposals for consideration in the agenda distributed to you. If there is no objection, I shall consider it adopted; in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, these proposals shall be sent to the committees responsible. If there are no comments on this subject, I will take it into account as a matter of fact and refer the proposals back to the relevant committees in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case. In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 23 January 2019, I also propose that you consider: - the bill (Mr Jan Spooren, Mr Benoît Piedboeuf, Mr Eric Van Rompuy, Mr Luk Van Biesen cs) amending the Income Tax Code 1992 as regards the tax provisions of the job deal, No. 3482/1; - the bill (Mrs Vanessa Matz cs) laying down tax rules on the profits of companies with a significant digital presence, No. 3483/1; - the legislative proposal (Mrs Vanessa Matz cs) introducing a provisional digital service tax (DDB) on the revenue from the supply of certain digital services by the "Digital Giants," No. 3485/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u62	- the proposal (Mrs Véronique Waterschoot and Mr Wouter De Vriendt cs) to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry to provide full clarity on procedures for granting humanitarian visas by Belgium since Mr Theo Francken's appointment as State Secretary for Asylum and Migration, No. 3484/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u63	In accordance with the opinion of the Conference of Presidents of 23 January 2019, I also propose that you take into account: - the bill (MM. Jan Spooren, Benoît Piedboeuf, Eric Van Rompuy, Luk Van Biesen et al.) amending the Income Tax Code 1992 with regard to the tax provisions relating to the employment deal, No. 3482/1; - the proposal for a law (Ms Vanessa Matz et al.) on rules for the taxation of profits of companies with a significant digital presence, No. 3483/1; - the proposal for a law (Ms Vanessa Matz et al.) on the creation of a provisional tax (TSN) on the products generated by certain activities of digital giants, No. 3485/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u64	- the proposal (Ms Véronique Waterschoot and Mr Wouter De Vriendt et al.) to set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry to shed light on the procedures for granting humanitarian visas by Belgium since the entry into office of the Secretary of State for Asylum and Migration Theo Francken, No. 3484/1.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u65	Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] It is thus decided. No observation? [[No]] That will be the case.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u66	Mr President, I would like to ask the urgency of the legislative proposal No. 3470 by Mrs Dumery and myself on access to school streets.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u67	We shall vote in the usual way in favour of urgency.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-01-24-54-plenair-ip267x.u68	We must proceed with the adoption of the agenda for Thursday 31 January 2019. We must proceed to the approval of the agenda of the sitting on Thursday, January 31, 2019. Are you sure you don't mind? [[No.]] The agenda has been adopted. No observation? [[No]] The agenda was approved. Next week's meeting will be much longer than today's, as there are twelve proposals and drafts on the agenda. The sitting is closed. Next meeting Thursday 31 January 2019 at 2.15 p.m. The meeting is adjourned. Next meeting Thursday, January 31, 2019 at 2:15 p.m.
