ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1061x.u1	Mr President, I have merged my two questions on the same subject. If this is not a problem, then we will consider that my two questions will be one. Minister, you have the advantage of being both the Minister of Justice and the Minister in charge of the Régie des Bâtiments. If this had been possible from the beginning of the legislature, perhaps there would have been other decisions in this area. I don't know. I come back to a case that continues to generate a lot of reaction and inquiry. I continue to believe that the choice that was made - under the previous government, I recognize - to launch the construction project for the Haren megaprison remains an error of assessment and priority. Recent developments remind us that evacuations have taken place on the Keelbeek grounds, while legal proceedings are still pending. These evacuations demonstrate, on the one hand, the great concern of a significant stream of civil society, the associative movement, about this issue and, on the other hand, the legitimacy of the motion for a resolution that I had tabled with other opposition parties in January 2016. To my knowledge, the Court of Auditors has never been consulted on this file. I interviewed her several times to find out what the information was in her possession and, twice, she replied that she had never been informed of the file. I would point out that my motion for a resolution calls for a clarification of the use of public funds in this project by entrusting to the Court of Auditors, as has already been done in other cases, an audit mission, in particular on the privileged legal framework which is a public-private partnership on which the Court of Auditors, in general, has expressed all its reluctance and criticism, particularly on the project in question. In November 2018, the Court of Auditors published a very informative report on the "Maintenance of Prisons in Public-Private Partnership - Follow-up by the Régie des Bâtiments and the SPF Justice". In particular, the Court points out that the appropriateness of choosing public-private partnerships has not been assessed and that the instruments for measuring and monitoring maintenance services within these establishments are not available. I therefore believe it is essential to carry out the audits which will enable us to shed light on the real costs of this type of contract which binds the State. That is the meaning of the motion for a resolution that I have tabled. In the Finance Committee of 13 November 2018, because I have been following this case with other colleagues for a long time, your predecessor in the office of minister in charge of the Régie, announced to us that the public contract between the State and the Cafasso consortium had been signed on 18 July of the same year and that, in view of the confidentiality of this contract, "these documents will be consulted by parliamentarians under very strict conditions". The Minister undertook to take all necessary steps to organize this consultation. Today, this consultation has not yet been organised. That's why I dare hope that the change of ownership may be obstructing a door. This reinforces our view that your government may not have the political will to ensure, in this case, the necessary transparency with regard to the parliamentary oversight mission, particularly with regard to the budget. It seems to me that this is the essence of our function. Therefore, Minister, when and under what terms will Members finally be able to learn about this contract? This consultation is all the more crucial in view of the fact that today we are asking ourselves whether the contract provides for an exit clause in the event of failure to obtain urban planning and environmental permits for the construction of the prison? Should it be recalled that on 28 September 2018 the first auditor of the Council of State submitted a negative opinion on the administrative act approving the contract in question with the consortium. This notice was notified to the applicants' lawyers on 16 November 2018 and concludes that the environmental permit and the urban planning permit granted by the Brussels Region were cancelled, as requested by the applicants. In particular, the opinion considers that the impact study is incomplete. This has always been repeated by the citizens who follow this dossier, from the start of the public procedure in the accompanying committee responsible for carrying out the specifications of the impact study. On January 17, 2018, opponents of the megaprisoner communicated about this opinion in order to denounce the attitude of the Régie des Bâtiments, which presents the megaprisoner as acquired, despite the pending appeals against the permits and, today, the opinion of the first auditor of the Conseil d'État. This opinion is indeed very important since, if the Council of State follows it in its forthcoming decision, it would totally compromise the feasibility of the project of a megaprisoner in Haren. Therefore, Minister, can you please let me know if the Régie des Bâtiments will wait until the judgment of the Conseil d'État is delivered before becoming more involved in the procedure of work and the execution of a permit which, no doubt, will no longer exist in a few months and will not start the construction project next April, as was announced to the citizens at an information session on 17 October 2018? At one point, it was read on the Régie des Bâtiments website that, contrary to its public commitments, the date had been set at the end of January. Since the decision of the Council of State had not been delivered, the work had to be stopped in all cases in order to ensure the normal functioning of the judicial decision. What will be the budgetary consequences for the state if permits are cancelled? Is the cancellation of permits by the judicial authority considered to be a breach of the contract by the State, which exposes it to compensation? Or has the safeguard clause, which is quite basic in any convention of this importance, been provided for in order to avoid adverse budgetary consequences for the State and, ultimately, for the citizens? Do you not consider, in the light of the opinion of the first auditor of the Council of State and the likely budgetary consequences for the State, that an audit of this project would at last deserve to be conducted by the Court of Auditors with a view to clarifying this legal and budgetary situation?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1061x.u2	Mr Maingain, the auditor's report on the action for annulment of urban and environmental permits was transmitted in October to Cafasso SA and the Régie des Bâtiments. However, this does not prevent further work. The permits were obtained at the end of 2016. In addition, the suspension procedures were all rejected in 2017 and 2018. These facts were therefore sufficient reason to sign the contract in July 2018. The preparatory work was able to start legitimately after the building's holidays. The first works concerned the diversion of the Keelbeek road as well as the earth-moving and remediation work on the site. In the meantime, the City of Brussels has agreed to this deviation. The IBGE (Brussels Institute for Environmental Management) has also approved research on the drainage of the Keelbeek Road. The foundation work was then started. Their execution is going well for the time being. In addition, the need for this prison to replace the prisons of Forest, Saint-Gilles and Berkendael remains urgent. The work will therefore not be interrupted until such time as no stoppages are imposed. It is true that the Council of State still has to decide on the final judgment. However, as already indicated, this does not prevent further work. Although the auditor considers a number of well-founded means, the Council of State does not necessarily have to follow this opinion. In addition, the Régie was reinforced in its decision to conclude the contract and launch the work by rejecting the requests for suspension of the work that had been submitted. If permits were to be cancelled, the response and remediation track will depend heavily on the reason why the Council of State cancels the permit(s). Of course, the contractor will stop the work, while remaining subject to an obligation to limit damage. The Régie des Bâtiments will make a decision based on the reasons. However, searching for another location is not an option. All other options were rejected by the auditor, both during the suspension and during the current procedure. Therefore, Haren remains the only appropriate solution. If the Council decides to cancel the planning permit and/or the environmental permit, it is true that the contractor may claim damages from the Régie des Bâtiments, which consist of financial costs, price revision and a lump sum and daily allowance for the contractor in respect of all other damages, costs and inconveniences, with a ceiling of EUR 1.65 million. We would like to recall that, to date, the Belgian State has not paid any compensation, since it is a DBFM (Design, Build, Finance & Maintain). However, we know that the contractor has already invested some 73 million euros at the end of January 2019 in the preparation, studies, outline and preparatory work of the prison. Like other DBFMs, the administration has nothing to hide in this file and is open to controls. Similarly, the Régie has been fully involved in the above-mentioned audit, and all figures have been provided. Nevertheless, the information provided should always be put in perspective. Indeed, the need for a new prison large enough in Brussels is an emergency and no one has any interest in the project being further delayed. Therefore, and as my predecessor promised in November 2018, we see no objection to a consultation for committee members, certainly in confidence. Practical details will be sent to members.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1061x.u3	Minister, what I feared was confirmed. First, the Régie des Bâtiments probably did not draw up its draft convention very correctly. Indeed, it seems to me a wise precaution in this type of procedure to provide for a resolutory clause which makes it possible not to execute a convention on the basis of obtaining or not obtaining urban and environmental permits. It is not a sensu stricto market procedure, but it is still a procedure in which competition, but also a form of transparency, must be justified. I am beginning to understand why, for so long, the Régie des Bâtiments has never given us the information, when I think I have intervened in this matter at least half a dozen times. The Régie des Bâtiments must now confess certain things, because it is threatened. I understand that the auditor's opinion may not be followed by the Council of State. This is the first auditor. It is even more rare to see the first auditor or auditor not being followed by the Council of State. This is undoubtedly a risk that the Régie des Bâtiments assumes, at the expense of public finances. I understand that, if I understood correctly, the compensation for a stoppage could amount to up to EUR 1.65 million in compensation, including all charges. I don't know how long this amount is planned. Anyway! It's really time we could get to know the whole thing. I take note of your proposal. I assume that any Member of Parliament will have access to this information. I look forward to this consultation. I still cannot understand why the Court of Auditors has not been consulted in this case. Once I have knowledge of the case, I will see how far it is necessary to ask the Court of Auditors to be able to look at this contract which seems to me, I would not say leonin but in any case very unbalanced and ill-conceived. It's a file, let me say it, messy since the start! We have today the confirmation with the probable decision of the Council of State which awaits us and the consequences that will result both on the construction site and on the finances. This project should have been thought differently from the start. No one denies the interest and importance of having a new prison in Brussels. I would point out that we are moving towards a capacity that is far greater than what is provided for in existing prisons, with a concept of prison that no longer corresponds at all to what the prison model should be in a country where we would like to change the conditions of detention in order to move towards prison management more in line with what is being done in a number of States. It is a choice that has been made and it is particularly burdensome. I regret that. Thank you for your answer, which nevertheless revealed new developments.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1061x.u4	Minister, I would like to ask you about the transfer to the Régie des Bâtiments of 5 to 6 hectares of the Wavre broadcasting site, which is currently owned by RTBF and VRT. RTBF and VRT own a 98-hectare land that houses superstructures, antennas and transmitters that have become largely obsolete. The two owners therefore commissioned an urban planning office to develop real estate development scenarios for those parties whose RTBF and VRT would no longer be useful. It seems that the Régie wishes to acquire a small part of land (5 to 6 hectares) in order to set up a legal psychiatry centre. Minister, can you tell me more about the progress of the discussions on the acquisition of land by the Régie? Do you already have any idea when the new legal psychiatry centre will be operational?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1061x.u5	Mr Corthouts, negotiations with RTBF for the amicable purchase of part of his land have been under way since mid-2018. The Committee for the Acquisition of Buildings is also a member of the Committee. A meeting to exchange views of the parties was held on November 5, 2018. A final price proposal per square metre from the Régie des Bâtiments was officially sent to RTBF. The Régie des Bâtiments wishes to conclude negotiations on this purchase in the coming weeks. Once we have acquired the ground, more in-depth studies can begin. For information, the Council of Ministers approved on 1 February a dossier containing the agreement to launch a procedure for the appointment of an adviser. It is after the designation of a consortium and the obtaining of permits that we will be able to communicate a detailed schedule.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1061x.u6	Minister, thank you for your answers. I act that this should be reflected positively in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1061x.u7	Mr President, Minister, the extension of the Lantin prison is currently being planned in the Liège region, or the replacement of part of the Lantin prison on another site. Several sites in the Liège region were mentioned. The one that seems to retain the interest of the Régie des Bâtiments is the former military site of Glons. Contacts have been established between the local authorities and the administration of the Régie des Bâtiments. It has been requested that the Conference of Bourgmasters at the Liege level issue a unanimous position, in order to definitively propose the site as the one that is best suited in the Liegeese region. As you know, this kind of project is always a source of emotion among the local population, but also among the local authorities, who are trying to find out exactly what is happening. I tabled my question a few weeks ago. At present, the municipal college of the municipality of Bassenge, where the site of Glons is located, has not yet issued an opinion on this dossier. He is looking for more information on the exact capacity of this project. Several questions were addressed to the Régie des Bâtiments. Is it a prison or a prison? This does not have the same impact on local traffic and mobility. Will the Defence sell the entire site or will the Régie "content" with the six to eight hectares that are needed for the prison project? What's going to happen with the rest of the land if we don't sell it all? Another project seems very illusory. The conference of the mayors wants to meet on 29 March and the municipal college is not in a position to deliver an opinion on this issue, since questions remain outstanding. When could this project start? What are the answers to the questions I have just asked, whether the whole land is concerned and whether it will be a prison or a prison? Minister, I would therefore like to know the intentions of the Régie des Bâtiments, the prospects and the timetable for moving forward on this issue. Far be it from me to contest the opportunity of a project. God knows Lantin's prison lacks capacity. But local authorities are also asking questions. The Régie des Bâtiments seems to say that it is waiting for an opinion to continue and the municipal college awaits the clarifications it has requested. The snake bites its tail. Thank you, therefore, for giving us some insight.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1061x.u8	Mr President, Mrs Matz, at the time of the approval of the Masterplan by the Council of Ministers, it was intended that the Tower of Lantin would be replaced by Verviers, on the one hand, and a prison located near the present site, on the other. In Lantin, many local protests were heard and we were willing to listen and seek a solution. To this end, contacts have been made, on several occasions, with the Collèges des Bourgmères de la metropolise liègeoise. Liège Métropole examined a number of potential sites and forwarded them to us. The Régie des Bâtiments also analysed them and reported that the site of Glons was privileged. The dossier was then the subject of a consultation with Liège Métropole in January. It was agreed that additional information should first be provided to the municipality concerned in Bassenge. What has been done since then. This item is again on the agenda of the next meeting in Liège Métropole to be held at the end of March, at the end of which we hope to be able to obtain definitive confirmation. Subsequently, it will of course be necessary to start the entire administrative process in order to obtain the necessary permits. Only then can a precise timetable be established. However, I stress that the project is very urgent and priority given the state of the Lantin Tower. I hope – and I believe – that everyone is well aware of this. It is true that the site of Glons is a little remote, but in a small country like Belgium, this cannot be a problem. Like previous projects, it is planned to reach agreement with public transport companies in order to find the best solutions. The necessary budgets will be released in accordance with the calculations in Masterplan III. The objective of 312 units integrated into a DBFM formula (Design, Build, Finance & Maintain) is maintained. In addition, Masterplan III does intend to rely on differentiation. There may be small-scale projects, which does not remove the need for larger facilities. I don't subscribe to the criticism about Leuze's prison. Many sustainable and ecological aspects have been taken into account. On the other hand, it is incorrect to say that inmates cannot hang anything on the wall, as each cell includes a bulletin board. Mrs Matz, I am responding to the questions raised by your colleagues. It also goes without saying that a form of digital platform has been planned. If we fail to do so, we exclude inmates from a crucial digital aspect of our current society, which does not encourage reintegration. This does not mean that this digital aspect replaces human contact between prison staff and inmates. With respect to the issue of the impact on the functioning of the CPAS, the intervention of a CPAS is linked to the registration address of the inmates at the time of their incarceration. If the detainee has never been registered anywhere, it is only in rare cases that he will be registered at the address of the CPAS of the commune that houses the prison. In addition, financial assistance is not always requested. At the request of the commune, my services also requested the numbers of the prison in Marche and forwarded them to him. The impact is very limited. Finally, with regard to the workload of the local police area, I can only remind you that the creation of the Federal Police Policy, Management and Development Directorate (DPG) will result in a reduction in the workload. This service is responsible for resuming the transport mission. At the same time, I can confirm that the law concerning the guaranteed minimum service was passed last week, which will therefore minimise the impact within the police.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1061x.u9	Minister, I thank you for this somewhat more comprehensive answer, as other speakers have indeed joined the question of Glons Prison. Personally, I am more concerned about a particular point, which does not really concern what you have just mentioned. You say that your services have been working with the local authorities and that you are hoping for a decision by the end of March at the Conference of Mayors. However, this answer cannot be given at the end of March because there are still a number of elements which the municipality wishes to obtain from your services, precisely in order to give its opinion. In other words: prison house, prison house? Are we in the entire site or not? Knowing that if it is not the whole, the rest will probably become a canker, we will not install anything else on this site. So there are a series of outstanding issues. It's a little bit the snake bites its tail. The Régie says it will deliver an opinion by March 29 and the commune says it does not have all the elements. In my view, the local authorities will not be able to give an opinion on the very principle of extending the prison in Lantin, even if we are all aware, as you have pointed out, that the prison in Lantin must be extended to the region of Liège: the buildings are indeed obsolete and the prison population is too large. I am sorry for not being able to provide them with these complementary elements, which would have enabled them to give a position of principle to the Conference of Mayors at the end of March. I hope that the Régie will be able to provide these additional elements. Otherwise, there will be no decision and it will not benefit anyone. The Régie had not been complete at this consultation meeting, as I said.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1061x.u10	Mr President, Mr Minister, since I have been asking you about the situation at the Brussels courthouse, it is probably no longer necessary to go into detail about the state of this masterpiece of Belgian architecture and our national heritage. Faced with the elements of the ceilings that detach and fall to the ground, the leaks of water and the proliferation of mushrooms, one cannot resolve to accept this sad daily for the services of justice, the bar, as well as for the citizens, the people who go there every day. Minister, I am aware that this problem has existed for a long time and that you obviously have nothing to do with its causes and origins. Of course, I'm not going to sue you here. I am also convinced that you and this government have this will to improve things. As the President said, we have already discussed this at length in this committee, particularly during the discussions on the implementation of the construction project, in direct synergy between the services of Justice and the Régie des Bâtiments. The fact that you have both caps today will certainly make things easier. In this regard, the press has announced that you have had the opportunity to meet the officials of the Poelaert Foundation who are fighting to save the courthouse in Brussels. It would appear that a project for the renovation of the building would have been presented to you on this occasion, which would be in direct support of the efforts already retained by the government in recent years. So, Minister, do you confirm this information? If so, can you tell us the content of your exchanges and the lines of strength that have been submitted to you? Are these interesting and achievable? What decisions were adopted at the end of this meeting? As was explicitly reflected in the motion for a resolution tabled in November 2016 with my colleagues Pivin, Schepmans, Lachaert and Van Vaerenbergh, it is essential to follow a clear and precise specification on this issue. I am thinking in particular of the security of the building, the reintegration of a maximum of judicial functions within it but also of a more appropriate location of those functions in and around the courthouse, with a view to rationalizing costs and optimizing services to the community. So, Minister, can you confirm that the palace's security project is now fully completed? If so, are there still some final work to be done? If so, which ones? On the other hand, has the list of judicial functions that will eventually return to the palace been closed by the SPF Justice and forwarded to the Régie des Bâtiments? If so, is it available and could you communicate it to us? Has a timetable already been set for the implementation of these guidelines? In this regard, what premises are currently being rented in the vicinity of the palace that could be abandoned and, therefore, the leases that could be terminated? What is the deadline? Finally, have you made an estimate at this stage of the savings that could thus be achieved? Minister, the government has so far committed itself in line with its priorities. Of course, we encourage him to continue his efforts. The deadlines must be respected and the situation cannot be accommodated by a delay in the planning of the work. I have already had the opportunity to say so before this committee, but in my personal capacity I have never known the courthouse in Brussels without its scaffolding. I'm about to be 40. I hope I can one day, before I die, see him without his scaffolding.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1061x.u11	Thank you, Mr. Calomne. You are young, which is a source of jealousy among some in this committee, of which I am. It is true that I recently had a constructive conversation with the Poelaert Foundation. Several agreements have been reached, specifically on the type of support it can provide for the speedy renovation of the courthouse. To be quite clear, this is about interior renovation, as the external renovation file has already begun. In September 2018, a design office was designated for outdoor catering. In this context, I would like to remind you of the vision note approved by the Council of Ministers in 2016. It already incorporated the fundamental principles and clearly established the services that would remain within the courthouse, namely: the first instance correctional court, the appeal court, the public prosecutor's office, the cassation court, the public prosecutor's office at the Court of Cassation, the assize court and the bar. At the same time, after collecting all the figures, the analysis will focus on the possible reintegration of certain services within the palace. This will be done on the basis of a metre and monitoring still under way and closed by this summer. These include justices of the peace, the police court and part of the bar. Meanwhile, the monitoring of the other buildings on Poelaert campus has also been closed. All these combined elements must form a reasoned and definitive choice for the future occupation of the courthouse and other buildings located on the Poelaert campus. Through this analysis, it will also be possible to determine the area that may no longer be required to accommodate justice services. However, it is important to be aware that during the entire period of the renovation project, a significant shock absorber will be required in order to be able to organize the relocations on time. This will be taken into account in the analysis of the possibility of termination of leases. Work to secure access to the courthouse has also been completed. The building now has only two entrances, with other accesses being condemned. The main entrance has been secured by a scanstreet, which has been operational for several months.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1061x.u12	Minister, thank you for your answer. Work continues. Tangible progress is being made, particularly in terms of security, as you have just pointed out. I went to the courthouse a few weeks ago. It is indeed operational. With regard to the Poelaert Foundation, proposals have been put forward for many years. It seems interesting to me to be able to rely on his expertise to make progress. Indeed, this foundation, the government and the actors of justice share the same objective and hope that the courthouse will evolve positively.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1061x.u13	We mustn't despair!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1061x.u14	Mr President, today we are going to visit all the provinces, including the beautiful province of East Flanders. Minister, the file for a new Ghent police commissioner on the Greendreef has been dragging on for some time now. Your colleague from the Interior recently stated that the file could be unblocked. Firstly, what are the federal ambitions regarding the site on the Groendreef? Second, is the Regie effectively requesting party for a change to the RUP, as was also suggested by the previous mayor? If so, since when?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1061x.u15	Mr Van Peteghem, shortly after I was given the power to rule the Buildings, I was informed of the dossier in question. I've been in touch with the mayor about this. The Government of the Buildings continues to support a cohabitation project, where both local and federal police are housed in the most appropriate and modern way. The thought trail of maximum cooperation is examined, whereby a renovation or renovation of the current buildings of the federal police or a new building is integrated into the project. In concrete terms, I proposed to the city of Ghent to analyse the possibility of a joint DBM project, DBM, for Design, Build and Maintenance, for the full housing of both local and federal police, where the Buildings Regie would take the part for the federal police. The results of the analysis can then be submitted to the Council of Ministers for validation with an estimate of the budget and initial planning. As part of this proposal, the city of Ghent would organise a consultation with all interested parties in the short term. There is currently no RUP for the site concerned. An approved RUP would provide long-term legal certainty for the expansion possibilities on the site and should therefore be included in the analysis.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1061x.u16	Thank you, Minister, for the explanation. It is indeed a good thing that the dossier, which has been dragging on for a number of years, is being unblocked. I hear that's what you and your services are doing. So I can only be satisfied with that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1061x.u17	Debates of the European Parliament Mrs Goffinet's 28576 is deleted because of no news from the questioner.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1061x.u18	Minister, I would like to ask you about the location of the future justice system in Braine-I'Alleud. My predecessor, Mr. Crusnière, has repeatedly questioned your predecessor on this issue. At his last inquiry last July, the news announced by Mr. Jambon was somewhat disturbing. Indeed, the minister announced an umpteenth postponement of the move of the justice of peace from Braine-I'Alleud as the working conditions for staff become increasingly difficult. Minister, has a building been chosen to house the justice of peace in Braine-l'Alleud? In the case where a building has been chosen, is there always a question of choosing the rental rather than the purchase of the building? If the rental option is preferred, will it be an interim rental time to find a longer-term solution?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1061x.u19	Mr Corthouts, the relocation of the justice system in Braine-I'Alleud is also part of a reform plan on justices of peace, regardless of the need for adequate accommodation. Indeed, the canton is larger than before. The reform will enter into force on 1 December 2019. The search for a new location first took place through prospecting for a new location. It was terminated at the end of 2018 because the FPS Finances then informed the Régie des Bâtiments of its intention to release the first floor which it currently occupies at the administrative center of Braine-l'Alleud, rue Pierre Flamand. This solution is preferred because the strategy of the Régie des Bâtiments is always to give priority, during a housing or rehousing project, to a solution found in its own portfolio. The FPS Justice recently visited the premises and the Régie des Bâtiments has already proposed an accommodation plan that will respond to the demands of the FPS Justice and Justice of the Peace. The Régie des Bâtiments will now prepare the file for the work of the first installation in agreement with the owner.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1061x.u20	Minister, thank you for your answers. They cause me some concern because a decision had been announced by your predecessor in March 2018 and we still see nothing concrete. The legislature is coming to an end, but my successor will not fail to return to this issue as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1061x.u21	Questions Nos 28762 and 28763 by Mr Paul-Olivier Delannois are transformed into written questions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1061x.u22	Mr President, something seems to have gone wrong. This question did not arrive in time for the Minister. It will be a lot of work to look up all the data in response to my question. Mr Minister, my intention was to get a look at the current situation of our own buildings, the buildings of the federal government owned by the Government of the Buildings. In view of the climate debate, the challenges of emissions and the proportion of buildings in it, I would like to ask you what the state of our own federal buildings is. I have a lot of questions about energy consumption, about solar panels, about the share of renewable energy in the energy mix and about the energy consumption of our buildings. To what extent are the roofs of federal government buildings used to install solar panels or generate other renewable energy? Is there an updated energy performance certificate for our government buildings? I understand that you are prepared to answer my questions in writing. That's good for me.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1061x.u23	Can you confirm that, Minister?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1061x.u24	Mr President, I am happy to answer Mr Smaers' questions as soon as possible and as correctly as possible. As far as the administrative misunderstanding is concerned, I apologise most humbly to you.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1061x.u25	You certainly don't have to apologize, Minister. The question came in very late yesterday afternoon. Our services have answered that question after all. No one needs to be blamed for that.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1061x.u26	Minister, this is the last opportunity for me to come back to a matter that is very close to my heart and that I have been here for a while, namely the one concerning the buildings relating to justice in the beautiful region of Verviers. I promise you this is the last time I've asked you about this. The prison officers of Verviers are surprised that the website of the Régie des Bâtiments has recently planned the opening of the new prison for 2024, even though it had been announced several times in 2022. The site of the Régie presents the agenda of the future phases of the construction of the prison. This planning is planned and therefore there is no certainty as to the time frame for the project to proceed. FPS Justice officials are therefore exposed to uncertainty about the reopening of the Verviers site. I also take this question to ask you about the project of the courthouse, which, as you know since you have visited it, is a few blocks away from the former prison of Verviers and which, too, patiently awaits its renovation. I welcome the progress of the T.Palm building in front of the palace, which will allow new hearings to be held by the end of the year, but I remain concerned about the continuation because it has come back to me that nothing was planned in the budget for the renovation. Therefore, Minister, can you confirm to me that the planned schedule for the construction of the new prison in Verviers will be respected? Can FPS Justice officials hope to resume work on the site in 2022 or 2024? What is the status of the courthouse renovation project? Can you reassure me about the budgeting for the renovation of the palace?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1061x.u27	Mr. Frédéric, I can indeed confirm the words of the deputy head of the Régie des Bâtiments on all points. With regard to the permit to demolish houses, we preferred to wait until the signature of all the acts before depositing it, simply out of respect for the inhabitants, since this deadline does not in any way trigger the deadline of the DBFM market. Prior to the designation of the consortium, a series of steps should be taken which are currently under way. The Verviers file does not encounter any particular problems up to this day and follows its course. We are currently preparing the second phase for legal and financial consultants. With regard to the comments on the timetable, I think that each of us would like to know an exact timetable for launching a large-scale infrastructure project. Unfortunately, the Régie does not master all the steps. It also depends on several other stakeholders. This may be the public market, in this case the DBFM market (Design, Build, Finance & Maintain), but above all the obtaining of all the necessary permits. In addition, the work itself or the preparations may be subject to unforeseen circumstances. Therefore, I can only confirm to you that all the current schedules are actually deadlines to be confirmed. My collaborators are doing their utmost to honor them. As soon as all the procedures are completed and we know the precise start date, the exact end date can be established. It goes without saying that FPS Justice (Principles) staff will be specifically informed of this. As far as the Verviers courthouse is concerned, it is for the moment fully based on the first installation works of the T.Palm building that you have cited. The building will be made available for the Labour Court, the Labour Auditorate and the Justices of Peace at the end of 2019. In addition, it will provide a breath of oxygen through the additional courtrooms that are planned. As far as the old palace is concerned, important works are planned for the layout of the attic of the extension of the courthouse and for the renovation of the facades. Studies for this work will begin in the coming months. As soon as the new building is ready to accommodate staff, it will also be possible to conduct studies on work to be carried out within the extension. A working group had been set up and would be relaunched in the coming weeks in order to establish a new timetable for the various phases and the budget to be allocated accordingly.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1061x.u28	Minister, climate, energy saving and environmental concerns are important issues that cannot be left out of the news. It is also becoming more and more topical with the climate demonstrations. The government also has an important responsibility in this regard. On the one hand, by setting the right objectives, releasing the right resources and facilitating the necessary solutions; on the other hand, the government also has an exemplary role by making its own buildings as energy efficient as possible or even energy neutral. Since two months you have been responsible for the management of the Federal Heritage, the Director of the Buildings. My question concerns two buildings in the municipality of Merksplas, in particular the criminal establishment and the centre for illegal immigrants. A long time ago the offer was made to both institutions to join a project of green heat and electricity: the green gas extracted from the gft waste of five hundred thousand inhabitants of the Kempen. This gas could be used as an energy source for the heating and electricity of both institutions. As a result, the ecological footprint of both institutions would fall enormously. The project is partly financed by European funds, so that it is also subject to strict timing. I'll come to my questions. You're probably aware of this project. I've also heard you're very fond of the project. Above all, I would have liked to have had a state of affairs. There is a very strict timing. Can you decide to join this project in the short term?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1061x.u29	Mr Wilrycx, the Government of the Buildings has informed me about the initiatives of the city of Merksplas and the biogas production plant based on gft waste. I am also aware of the proposals for a cooperation agreement with the energy company Ebem for the supply of heat and electricity, for the centre for illegal immigrants and for the prison in Merksplas. Projects in the context of sustainable energy consumption are very important and receive my particular attention. The Buildings Control has already switched to 100 % of green electricity for all its managed buildings. For heat production, the feasibility of sustainable alternatives is always examined. The Management of the Buildings is currently examining the proposals and is in consultation with Ebem. This should allow an objective position to be taken, based on the impact for the Government of the Buildings, the FPS Justice, the prison, the Foreign Office and the centre for illegal immigrants in Merksplas. It is important that we have a balanced proposal, with the necessary guarantees. The final solution should not be more expensive for the Regie and for the occupying services than the current system. All parties must now clearly put their demands and problems on the table to decide whether cooperation is possible. A consultation will be held in the coming weeks.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1061x.u30	Thank you, Minister, for your reply. It is true that green electricity has been switched to green electricity, but it is also possible to produce heat in an ecological way. The sustainable alternative is offered here. We are still burning fuel oil and gas there, so it would be a huge improvement. The Non-More-than-Others principle, which you cite, is also contained in the proposal. I hope that, in the short term, we can reach an agreement with the Regie to reduce the ecological footprint of both institutions.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1061x.u31	I am very attached to the Château de Bouillon because this is the first visit I made with my primary school more than sixty years ago. I didn't know he belonged to the federal state.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1061x.u32	Mr President, indeed, the Château de Bouillon is one of the most beautiful works of the medieval period of this country – with others, of course. He really deserves a detour. Minister, this castle is located in the province of Luxembourg, a stone's throw from my house since the commune of Bouillon is right next to Bièvre. It currently belongs to the federal state. This medieval castle is one of the oldest feudal remains of Belgium, a real jewel of our region and of this ancient Ducal city that is Bouillon. Moreover, the tourist activity carried out by this castle contributes positively to the revenue of the federal state since it is a beneficiary. It reports more to the federal state than it costs for maintenance. According to information relayed by persons assigned to the management of this work, contacts were made in order to transfer the property of the Château de Bouillon to the Walloon Region. Minister, can you confirm to me whether this information is correct? Have there been any contacts in this regard? Is this a sale to the Walloon Region? That seems so surprising to me. If so, why should such a transfer be considered? I don't see the point. Have the local authorities participated in these possible talks?
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1061x.u33	Minister, this monument must remain the property of the federal state!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1061x.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to be the owner. I discover riches! Mr Clarinval, the Régie des Bâtiments is not informed of the contacts to which you refer. A contact has indeed been established between the Régie and the managers responsible for the operation of the site, namely the ASBL Royal Syndicat d'Initiative de Bouillon. This contact concerned the management of the site contract. Consequently, the Régie has not yet had any contact with the Walloon authorities on a possible transfer of the monument to the Region. In principle, a transfer of certain monuments from the federal to the regions can be discussed when these are monuments that are not of national symbolic value and if they have no or more utility for the main missions endorsed by the Régie des Bâtiments. If an official application is submitted, it will be processed and analysed internally.
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1061x.u35	That's reassuring, Mr. Clarinval!
ParlaMint-BE_2019-03-20-54-commissie-ic1061x.u36	Mr President, Minister, I must confess that this information was astonishing to me. I still hear that a contact with the ASBL has been established by the Régie about the management of the site. Something's obviously happening. Like Mr. President, I am opposed to the transfer of this castle, given its importance. I am not even sure that the Region is asking to become the owner of such a work. In any case, perhaps we could get more information on the content of contacts between the Régie and the ASBL. Indeed, information has percolated and raises questions. You haven't received any information about this? No? So I'll be back to interview you.
